Mr. GLASSER. Albert Glasser.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Glasser, it is the practice of the committee to advise all witnesses that they have a right to have counsel accompany them to the witness chair, and the right to consult counsel at any time they may desire during the course of their testimony. When and where were you born, Mr. Glasser ?
Mr. GLASSER. I was born in Chicago, Ill., January 25, 1916.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. GLASSER. 8855 St. Ives, I-v-e-s, Drive, Los Angeles 46.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in California?
Mr. GLASSER. California since 1922. I was 6 years old.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been. 3822 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. GLASSER. Graduate of high school-Roosevelt High School in Los Angeles. I had a scholarship at the University of Southern California, composition and orchestration. In 1934 I won the Alchin, A-1-c-h-i-n. Charity Foundation Award. After leaving the university-it was during the depression years1 began to work gradually on movie circuits, and trying to establish a reputation as a composer and conductor.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wanted to find out what your profession or occupation is. Do I understand it is both that of a composer and an instrumentalist ?
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, sir; composer and conductor; motion pictures, radio shows, television shows; all types of commercial work; and, when I have time, my concert work.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of its investigation the committee learned that, for a period of time, you had an opportunity to learn something of the activities of the Communist Party within a group of musicians in this area.
Mr. GLASSER. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever a member of a Communist Party group composed of musicians ?
Mr. GLASSER. Unfortunately, yes.
Mr. MOULDER. May I ask, composed exclusively of musicians?
Mr. GLASSER. Of Communist members.
Mr. MOULDER. Of musicians alone?
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, sir; exclusively of musicians.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee, please, over what period of time you were a member of such an organization.
Mr. GLASSER. Well, sir, this was in 1943, and it was over a period of perhaps from 6 to 7 months at most. I was recruited somewhere about the middle of the year, around the summertime of 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which you became a member ?
Mr. GLASSER. I would be glad to. Through various family friends, we became acquainted with a gentleman named Max Silver and his wife, a Dr. Louise Light.
Mr. TAVENNER. Max Silver was a functionary of the Communist Party in Los Angeles at that time ?
Mr. GLASSER. That is right. He was one of the officers. Which particular job he had I am not aware of. Actually it was organizer or chairman or something. I didn't pay much attention to it. We were soon aware that he was a high official in the high party.
Mr. DOYLE. The summer of 1943 ?
Mr. GLASSER. The summer of 1943. We actually had met him, I would say, in the spring of 1943. After going to his house many times and being invited to his house and being wined and dined by them, we realized years later as to why we were wined and dined. It was sort of a membership drive at that time. But, after seeing him there often and spending a lot of time with them-because, for one thing there, Dr. Silver is an extremely intelligent man, and in his conversation, even though most of the time it would lead toward politics which I wasn't too much concerned with COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3823 at the time, it was educational, if anything, to hear him describe things and discuss political affairs along liberal elements. My background naturally had been slightly liberal all my life. My parents had been. My father had been a bodyguard at one time for Eugene V. Debs back before the First World War. And, as the years went by, this form of semiliberalism was more or less instilled in the conversation at home. , So my environment became a liberal form of education. When I heard Mr. Silver discuss things in a more radical light and stronger tone, for basic curiosity reasons alone-I am a very curious guy; I like to learn. And from Mr. Silver we began to learn various things which at times might have puzzled me and confused me as to how things operated under communism, under different forms of liberal elements. As the time moved along through the spring he began pressuring us-I shouldn't use that word-asking us, we are intelligent young kids; I am a good musician; I am going far; I should come into the party and help organize a certain type of thing which they were eventually going to steer toward the Musicians Congress Committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were told that that was to be one of the objectives of this Communist Party group?
Mr. GLASSER. I can't actually recall if Mr. Silver discussed this particular element at the time. But in overall discussions they were pointing out that one of the lacks in America was the fact that we don't have a Minister of Culture, a general governmental agency which could help and control and sponsor music and all the allied arts like the various European countries have-France, England, Finland. Many of the European countries have a definite Minister of Culture, so-called, which helps guide all cultural things. That we here in America don't have such a thing, and we should have something like that, which is true. This much I still believe today. We should have something like that. In fact, there was an item in the paper recently, if I can find it at the moment, where such a proposition is being sponsored in Congress today. It came out a week or two ago where the United States does need some form of help from the Government toward the arts. Well, on principles like this, which are basically sound and correct, which is something we Americans should have, it sounded very correct at the time especially. And the general approach at the time was, we have to build some form of educational program to present these things to the American public. How are you going to present it to the American public? You have your Musicians' Congress and invite all the greatest musicians in America or the world to come here at a big symposium, and show the facets of music, the culture of music, how it can help the American public in various ways and help the war effort, or something else at the time. Everything was to help build the war effort, naturally.
Mr. JACKsoN. Mr. Glasser, do you distinguish between the aid and assistance of the United States Government in such a program, and direction of the United States Government in such a program? 77436-56-pt. 9--2 3824 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA I don't know whether you were present in the hearing room day before yesterday or not.
Mr. GLASSER. No. 
Mr. JACKSON. We heard about a Government agency which certainly is not the sort of agency that any of us would want. It was the agency which directs the cultural art or the agencies which direct cultural art in the Soviet Union.
Mr. GLASSER. They shouldn't direct. 
Mr. JACKSON. I think the distinction should be made very clear that, while some such program as the one you suggest might be very meritorious and undoubtedly would be, we should be very careful.
Mr. GLASSER. You are so right, sir. should help in other ways. They should not direct; they 
Mr. DOYLE. May I join the comment of Mr. Jackson at that point. The testimony day before yesterday was not only that Russia had an agency but there was a state controlMr. GLASSER. They sure do.
Mr. DOYLE. That controlled the writing and publication of the music. And no music other than jazz could even be published with- out the consent of the Russian or the Soviet Government, and that the whole purpose of the emphasis on music and art in the Soviet Union was for the purpose of interpreting the Soviet philosophy to the Russian people.
Mr. GLASSER. That is right. 
Mr. DOYLE. On the contrary, of course, that destroys, in my book, individual initiative and independent respect for the individual, and places it as a servant of the state.
Mr. GLASSER. Very much so. 
Mr. DOYLE. Which is contrary to the American philosophy.
Mr. GLASSER. When the Soviet Government began to slap the wrist of Shostakovich and Prokofiev and other great, sincerely great composers in the Soviet Union, and chastised them for writing an unSoviet type of music, music against the culture of the Soviet form of government, this is going a little bit too far. And there have been dozens of instances and cases where Russians themselves have told the world they have chastised these various indi- viduals for writing music not acceptable to the people. What means "acceptable to the people"? Whose opinion are they taking?
Mr. SCHERER. Whenever you get government into that field don't you run the risk, however, of eventual control and domination
Mr. GLASSER. That is entirely possible.
Mr. SCHERER. I am not so sure that the Government of the United States has anything to do with interesting itself, even by way of grantsin-aid, in the promulgation of the cultural society. We can do that with our free institutions, and have done it for many years. I don't think government has any part in it. Those are my own feelings, because it eventually leads to control and domination by government whether you like it or not as soon as you start putting money into those programs.
Mr. GLASSER. Don't you think it is possible? For example, the Department of Labor has helped without interfering with labor. In the same sense, we could have a Department of Culture if it is correctly set up. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3825 
Mr. SCHERER. We have too many departments and agencies now.
Mr. GLASSER. This may be.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Glasser, as indicated by several members of the committee, we heard extensive testimony here 2 days ago, and in quite some detail, regarding the political uses that were made in the Soviet Union of the various arts, which included music. Now after you got into this organized group of the Communist Party composed of musicians and the Musicians Congress-was that the name of it?
Mr. GLASSER. Musicians Congress Committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Committee was established, did you learn of any- thing indicating an effort to use that organization in a political way or to influence its decisions in a political way ?
Mr. GLASSER. Very much so. If I may, I would like to elaborate on that and explain it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to. 
Mr. GLASSER. As the work began to organize for the Congress Committee, which was to be held at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles-UCLA-we had a few meetings, gatherings of members and nonmembers of the party, to discuss as to how the congress should take place and the form it should follow, who should be invited, who shouldn't be invited, what they should expect and what they should say. Now as the discussion would come along, we would drop out certain names. They would say, "How about so-and-so, a great composer." And they could kick it around. And the first big fight that I had with the group was about the name of Rachmaninoff, Sergei Rachmaninoff, who had just passed away in the summer of 1943 or late fall, who was one of the towering lights in music, one of the great geniuses of our time, unquestionably. I said we should have a man like him represented, or at least some of his works should be played as representative of today's great music because we do have great geniuses. We talked about Beethoven, Bach, Brahms. But we have greats in our own time who in a period of history will take shape along with the greatest composers of all time. The minute I mentioned the name Rachmaninoff there was a big outburst and a shout: "That dirty White Russian?" And this began a long series of discussions and doubletalk. I said, "So what? White Russian. Obviously, we all know this. But the man is still a great genius, a great composer, one of the big men of our time. What the heck has politics got to do with music? Is this going to be a congress of politics or music? Music comes first as far as I am concerned." And as time subsequently proved, in most of these cases, members of Communist beliefs, intense beliefs-they carried the political beliefs to a greater extent than the musical beliefs. They loved politics more than music. And, once this picture began to become clear to me, then I knew there was something wrong, and I had to get out and get out fast. There were other names of individuals from New York, the New York area-certain composers who were very small, very petty, veryI shouldn't say stupid because they might be intelligent people, but the music they write is very inferior and very low grade. 3826 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA The orchestrations on certain occasions, I know personally, as I have studied some of the scores, a third-grade orchestra student would be ashamed to orchestrate what these big men were doing. It was ridiculous. These men were being pushed to the front. This one should lead this symposium; this one should definitely be in charge of American folk music; this man was, in my opinion, a very inferior composer, a very small-time situation. And it is very unfortunate that his work should be pushed so to the fore, that the general American public should hear his things rather than other greater men of more significance and importance. Slowly, as the congress committee began to take shape and more and more of these names were dropped, and more of the greater men who might be White Russians or unsympathetic to liberal causes were dropped out and eliminated, the whole thing began to take a definite political shape. We were saying goodby, good luck, and thank you, and I backed out in a hurry.
Mr. TAVENXER. You backed out of the congress. Did you also back out of the Communist Party ?
Mr. GLASSER. The party, simultaneously. It was a joint venture.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you hold a position of any kind in the Musicians Congress Committee?
Mr. GLASSE. Yes. I had been appointed secretary and treasurer of the original congress committee. And I was to help raise funds and collect the money and hang on to the money and protect it. Apparently they felt I was the only honest fellow in the bunch. I don't know why. I had to get stationery printed, and we just had enough money for 1 ream of paper which at that time cost around $7. We had $10 in the treasury. So we had 1 ream of stationery printed up, which was this, which fortunately we have maintained the balance of the ream. And on the ream of stationery my name is listed as secretary-treasurer of the committee.
Mr. JACKSON. May I see that?
Mr. GLASSER. Certainly.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to offer that letterhead in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Albert Glasser Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MOULDER. It is so ordered.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I don't know what the testimony is going to develop, but I would add to the insertion the stipulation that the mere appearance of a name on the letterhead does not connote membership in the Communist Party or sympathy with the Communist Party.
Mr. GL.SSEm:.Definitely not. That is very true.
Mr. MOULDER. With that understanding, the exhibit will be admitted into evidence. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now let us go back a little further. You have told us that, as a result of your associations and discussion of matters in which you were interested, you became a member of the Communist Party. Can you tell the committee anything more in detail as to how you actually became a member? That is, who brought you in and whether you signed any Communist Party cards.
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3827 GLASSES EXHIBIT No. 1 MUSICIANS CONGRESS 1655 CHEROKEESTREET,ROOM 301 COMMITTEE HOLLYWOOD 28, CALIFORNIA HEMPSTEAD3501 ovlD MIU, CL GILKulIK MUSICIANS CONGRESS COMMITTEE . LLHo pRESENTS OO HU 0000E00FS JN GREN o Y S, " vu Classical and Swing - - Buffet Dinner WALTER FCKO ABEL,Ma,r f Co~imu cVIN cum The First of a Series oF Outstanding MusicalEvents n 1010 Summit Drive Sat., Dec. II, 1943 a $200 
Mr. TAVENNER. Or whether you paid dues and all matters of such character.
Mr. GLASSER. In the course of time we were spending many evenings with free dinners-which we needed badly because we were broke-at the home of Mr. Max Silver. It came to the point where he finally said, "Look. You kids have got. to get in. This is silly. You are bright, you are intelligent. You have got to join this thing and help establish this cause, and help work for the war." Everything was the war-second front, Musicians Congress, help culture; all the various double-talk phrases which were coming through. They had been so kind to us and so sweet we just felt so grateful. And when they kept saying "You have got to sign," they finally shoved a membership card in my wife's hand and myself, and said, "Now, sign, and no more backing out. Come on. Do it right now." 3828 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA We took the cards and stood up against the wall, and, with a pen, started to sign. I told my wife, "Wait a moment. One second. Don't sign with your actual handwriting. I still don't trust this thing. There's something fishy, and I know in my heart there's something wrong. Put the pen in your left hand and write it backward so maybe, in the event there may be trouble, they could not trace it to me, because I don't believe in this. We aren't doing a wrong thing, but we will go along with it for the ride. There is nothing to lose. We aren't doing anything wrong. We aren't doing any criminal acts. We don't do any espionage. We wouldn't hold up a bank or kill anyone. We are doing no wrong as wrong goes. We are simply signing a piece of paper which means nothing." We signed the membership cards backward with our left hands, and
Mr. Silver and Louise-Dr. Light-raised holy heck with us. They screamed. But we stuck to our guns. We said, "No, if you want it, take it this way. That is good enough for you." And they finally accepted. Now, soon afterward we were contacted to go to a meeting, a membership drive. I don't know whether it was a membership drive, but sort of a welcoming-to-the-Communist-Party type of thing. And after this meeting we had 3 or 4, 4 or 5 actual meetings of the Communist Party, 2 of which were in our own home. The reason we had to have it in our own home was very simple. My little girl had just been born, January 23, 1943, and was still a little infant, 6, 7, 8 months old, and my wife was slightly nervous and high strung and refused pointblank to have babysitters. This was out of the question. Have a stranger watch our baby? Nonsense.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you a moment. It is not my purpose to ask you anything regarding your wife.
Mr. GLASSER. I'm sorry.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is not our practice to do so. However, if the witness desires to mention his wife in order that it may be known what his wife's position is, it is all right for you to do so.
Mr. GLASSER. May I request the presence of my wife to come on the stand along with me and appear jointly? Is this possible, if you desire to?
Mr. TAVENNER. We can call her as soon as you complete your testimony. 1 interrupted you. You had come to the point where you signed your membership card and were asked to come to a meeting.
Mr. GLASSES. Yes. We went up to a home on Sunset Plaza Drive. Whose home I wasn't aware of at the time, and never have been. But when we came to this big, very fine home, there were about 40 or 50 people sitting around in the living room. And after a few minutes a gentleman came to the front and said, "Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Communist Party." And we said, "Welcome. Thank you, thank you." Very friendly, very jovial, a lot of fun, and all total strangers to me. We didn't know anyone there at the time. A gentleman began to speak, Mr. John Howard Lawson, whose name has come up, we know, at various times. He was a very bright man, a very intelligent man. But, as far as I am concerned, his political thinking was way off the beam, completely confused. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3829 He began to speak for an hour or two-I forget how long-just going along, explaining the purposes and ideals and motives of the Communist Party in America, how they hoped to bring about certain changes in the Government through normal legal processes, through the ballot, through the vote of the American people, by the wishes of the American people and a majority, following standard American basic procedure straight down the line. And he talked and talked and talked. And at times he would go off on tangents, which at times sounded like double talk. And toward the end he kept building up toward the fact that we have to do this through normal legal processes, due process of law. He pounded his fist and would get very dynamic because he is a very dynamic man, and kept stressing the fact that through the American system way of law we shall accomplish these purposes. Now when he got through, my wife, who is a very, very spunky little woman, raised her hand to ask a question. And he said, "Yes," and pointed to her. And she said, "Mr. Lawson, what is the ultimate goal of the Communist Party?" And he immediately went into a long series of double talk, divergence, tangents, all over the place. He didn't answer her question one iota. When he finally got through with the story, "But," she said, "I still ask the same question. What is the ultimate goal? What happens if we can't accomplish this through legal process, through the ballot box?" Again he went off on a long-winded story, evading the issue. Three or four times she kept after him. And I almost started to poke her and say, "Hey, cut it out." I didn't realize what she was after. She kept needling him. Not needling, but insisting he answer the question, at least answer the simple question: What is the ultimate goal? And he finally got so angry, and his face flushed up-I shouldn't use the word "red." But his face came red, and he just blurted out But strong. with vehemence, "Revolution." My wife said, "That does it." He forgot himself for a moment. I think he forgot himself. I assume that because there was a general murmur of dissatisfaction in the group. They felt this wasn't necessary.
Mr. JACKSON. Murmur of dissatisfaction ?
Mr. GLASSER. Dissatisfactsion. But we knew right then and there, oh, oh, something is wrong. This is definitely silly, ridiculous, because to follow this type of thinking requires an individual that has certain basic elements of conceit, of vanity and ego where they think that what they feel is so correct that they and they alone have the true message for the world. These people are so vain in a small, petty way that, once they get the idea of communism or socialism implanted in their brain, they feel this is the only way that can help humanity go forward. They become so stodgy and so stupid in their steadfastness and so blindthey cannot see other ways and they refuse to accept other ways. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.) 3830 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. GLASSER. TO me this is so ridiculous, so foolish. They just cannot comprehend how big the world is, how much more there is to life and living than just their one little idea. And once we began to feel these things, this trend, we gradually backed off and said, "What have we done now?" When it finally came to the breaking point we said, "We'll get out and get out fast. This is too much."
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Glasser, who were the leaders of this group of the Communist Party That is, the persons you found to be the leaders after you joined the group ?
Mr. GLASSES. There was one gentleman whom I always had a sort of secret fascination for-put it that way; his intelligence, a very lucid man, a very fine brain. His name was Mischa Altman. This man steered, ran, did everything. He was just general factotum as far as I could tell. He was always present at our meetings. I gathered he was present at all the other meetings. He must have had three bicycles to run all over the town at the same time.
Mr. MOULDEn. Are your references to these people in the year 1943?
Mr. GLASSER. 1943, yes, sir. Only 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall the names of any persons who held or seemed to hold positions in that organization, such as the person who would collect the dues ?
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, sir. As to officials, our particular group was very loosely strung. There was no definite, intense type of job. But various people would be appointed at various times to do a certain type of thing-literary director, to read some current book and discuss it at meetings and try to make us all buy the book, which is one of the gimmicks, too, to help raise money. The literary director at one time, when we were at the party in 1943, was a fellow named Henry Roth. This I recall vividly because he gave a long dissertation on one of the books at the time, and discussion groups were held on that particular subject. I think he was also the treasurer of our group at one time.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is Henry Roth, R-o-t-h ?
Mr. GLASSER. R-o-t-h. (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. GLASSER. A very fine violinist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us theMr. MOULDER. Order in the hearing room, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names of any other members of that group you can now recall? Before doing that I want you to know of your own personal knowledge that they were members of this particular group.
Mr. GLASSER. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. And if you know they were members through your personal knowledge, then we want that information.
Mr. GLASSER. These are the only names I can actually recall. I have done a lot of soul searching. At times certain names-you think of a nerson's face. Going back 13 years, it isn't easy to remember who is who. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3831
Mr. MOULDER. Are you now going to identify these people as members of the Communist organization or as members of your Communist Party group?
Mr. GLASSER. These individuals here I can recall definitely as having come to my home at the Communist Party meeting.
Mr. MOULDER. All right.
Mr. GLASSER. Henry Roth, Esther Roth, Mischa Altman, Carla Altman, A-l-t-m-a-n, Herb Offner, O-f-f-n-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNEE. What was the first name?
Mr. GLASSER. Herb or Herbert.
Mr. GLAssER. And Herb, H-e-r-b, Lessner, L-e-s-s-n-e-r. Cyril Towbin, C-y-r-i-1 T-o-w-b-i-n. Sol Kaplan, S-o-1 K-a-p-1-a-n. Martha Goldberg, Anita Short, Kathryn Becker and Carroll Hollister, H-o-l-l-i-s-te-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you say Becker ?
Mr. GLASSER. Becker, B-e-c-k-e-r. These are the only people whom I definitely know had been in the Communist Party.
Mr. DOYLE. May I interrupt you at this pointThose were the meetings you say the Communist group held in your home. Were those meetings limited, within your knowledge, to Communist Party members ?
Mr. GLASSER. The two meetings that we had at our home, yes, sir, were only of the Communist Party.
Mr. DOYLE. Limited to Communist Party members?
Mr. GLASSER. That is right. And I might add to this there was nothing surreptitious, nothing secret, nothing cloak-and-dagger type of thing at all. The windows were wide open. We had the bakery come to the front door and deliver all the bakery goods for refreshments later. It was all very clean, very official, very normal, very decent; nothing wrong at all.
Mr. MOULDER. Did you pay Communist Party dues?
Mr. GLASSER. We paid Communist Party dues when I could afford it at the time.
Mr. MOULDER. Who did you pay them to?
Mr. GLASSER. Henry Roth.
Mr. JACKsON. During what period of time? In what years were these meetings conducted?
Mr. GLASSER. 1943, between August or September and about December. The reason I know that, in December we began to get out and get out fast, was the fact that on December 11 you will find a little card attached to the Musicians Congress letterhead. We threw our first party to raise funds for the Congress Committee. The question was how could we raise funds and get money to get the show on the road for the congress. So the thought was expressed we should throw a big party, serve refreshments and have a lot of good entertainment and charge admission, and raise money by passing the hat. So all the girls got together and cooked all the food, a bunch of turkeys, potato salad-the usual things for a big spread. Entertainers were invited, and a big party was thrown at a home which is listed on the card, the address there, on December 11 of 1943. We had very many big celebrities of the motion picture world who had nothing to do with those elements at all, because this was now 77436-56-pt. 9-3 3832 AREA COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., completely the Musicians Congress, a very cultural institution on the surface, and many people were drawn in without knowing or suspecting what might have been steering behind the scenes. We had a very successful party and raised a few hundred dollars. I was at the door collecting tickets and collecting admissions. My wife was helping serve the food and cooked two of the turkeys. And some of the girls from our party group cooked the other turkeys. It was a very successful social affair. Put it that way. But various things were happening at this time before and during the party itself, this party to raise the funds, which began to give us various insights into these people's character, where they were so petty in various ways. We felt these can't be Communists. These people talk of working for the world, for humanity, to help humanity advance and go forward. And all this yak, yak, yak about humanity: "We love humanity." And they were doing so many little petty things which didn't help humanity, but showed how selfish they were, how petty they were in their thinking and their living. And these two things are so diverse. How can we be petty and small and think of yourself in a selfish way and still think of humanity and work for humanity ? To me this is impossible.
Mr. TAVENNER. You withdrew from the Communist Party at the time you withdrew as financial secretary of the Musicians Congress Committee ?
Mr. GLASSER. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become affiliated with the Communist Party at any later date?
Mr. GLASSES. Oh, no.
Mr. TAVENNER. And your severance of ties with the Communist Party then was complete?
Mr. GLASSER. Complete and total. We stayed away from the Musicians Congress like a plague. We just went to one affair, which was based on motion picture music. We are sorry we went. We completely avoided the entire Musicians Congress, wanted no part of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since that time have you had any credits in your profession, or works that had any special standing as being antiCommunist in character ?
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, I have, very fortunately.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are they? years I have composed, orchesMr. GIASSE . Well, in the last 81/2 trated, and conducted music for over 85 motion-picture films, and a few of these things including various types of films would be Top of the World, I Shot Jesse James, Geisha Girl, Tokyo File 212, Captain John Smith and Pocahontas, Huk, H-u-k, Paris Models, Invasion USA, Unmie-a Japanese word that means faith. Most of these pictures, Tokyo File 212, Invasion USA, and Huk, which I just completed 2 months ago, are very strong, very dynamic anti-Communist pictures. Invasion USA was a story of the supposed future enemy invading the United States, and how they could do it and what would happen if they did it. They couldn't mention any definite country. We weren't concerned with getting international politics involved. But the idea was clearly brought to us as to what could happen in such an event. Tokyo File was made completely in the Orient, in Tokyo, and showed how some of the Communist Party methods operate, what COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3833 they have done in various ways, and shows their machinations, how they can accomplish certain purposes and how it was stopped by the Japanese Government with the help of the American Government. At that time General MacArthur was still in Tokyo. And, in fact, all of us who worked in the production, had to be cleared by the general, I was told later, subsequently. Huk was a story of the Communist uprising in the Philippine Islands 5 years ago, and the damage it made and how it was stopped eventually by Magsaysay, the President of the Philippine Islands.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was any effort made at any later date to get you back into the Communist Party ?
Mr. GLASSER. No, I don't think so for one reason. We made it very clear and very self-evident we wanted no part of them. And I feel sure in my heart that we were the dirtiest buch of bums they ever recruited. They wouldn't want any part of us either. So it is mutual, if anything.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. I have never spoken with the witness, nor heard him say anything until this hour. But you may not know, Mr. Glasser, that this committee is here under what is known as Public Law 601, passed in Congress, delegating the members of this committee to investigate the extent of subversive activities and propaganda in our country whether it originates within our country or some foreign country, and then to report what we find, with our recommendations, back to Congress from time to time. Of course, one of the purposes of this type of an investigation, as well as the purpose of subpenaing you, was not only to get the facts which you have given us, but to see if there is a possibility of veering those facts toward improving, modifying, or amending legislation dealing with subversive activities in our country.
Mr. GLASSER. That is right.
Mr. DosLE. The Supreme Court has held, and in commonsense, that you can't legislate unless you know the facts.
Mr. GLASSER. True.
Mr. DOYLE. The most recent case so declaring was the case of Quinn, which has been quoted by those who oppose this committee. It is true, is it not, that I have never spoken with you in your life?
Mr. GLASSER. ' That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. So I have no idea what your answer is going to be. But I am going to ask you if you are at all familiar with the field of legislation as it is at present in Congress ?
Mr. GLASSER. Vaguely. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, have you given it any thought?
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, I have.
Mr. DOYLE. Which you can give us the benefit of?
Mr. GLASSER. What I think you are driving at, sir, is if I have any ideas or thoughts that might help you as a committee.
Mr. DoYLE. That is what I am saying to you.
Mr. GLASSER. And the American public.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you any ?
Mr. GLASSES. I do. 3834 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYLE. Will you tell us your ideas or thoughts because we are making a study of that very subject.
Mr. GLASSER. I think you should almost take a page out of the Communist book and throw it right back at them. It is very effective.
Mr. DOYLE. Throw what back at them and how ?
Mr. GLASSER. From an educational committee. What I have learned in the last month since I was subpenaed, I have had a tremendous education and very enlightening. I have assembled all these things that have happened to us in the last month, and it makes sense in one way. Many people have called us and said, "Gee, Albert, I'm so sorry for you. I'm so sorry you have been called up. Gee whiz, isn't it terrible?" I come back and say, "No. This is wonderful. What is wrong? What have I done that is so wrong? I didn't kill anyone. I didn't rob a bank. I didn't do anything against my country. I have done nothing criminal. I simply joined a rotten little Communist Party one time, and got out fast. Big deal. What have I done that is so terrible? Nothing. At the time I went in, the Communist Party was not a bad thing." Now the fact that this is being cleared up, and my name and reputation are being cleared up once and for all, where there can be no suspicion as to where I stand and how I feel, this is a good thing; not a bad thing. I am darn glad the committee has called me in. I have had a chance to tell the whole American world where I stand and what I feel, take it or leave it. This is the way I am built. Now what you should do as a committee, I think, is to have an actual educational committee-follow a page from the Communist form of operations-where you go on a deliberate campaign to tell the American public and get to the American public through the press, the magazines, articles perhaps-I don't know how-television programs. But point out all these thousands and thousands of Americans all over the country who feel like I do, who at one time or another were so liberal and felt a certain way for certain reasons, and they wanted to do something to help.
Mr. SCHERER. Don't you think it would be fine to have you on television here today Would people then understand?
Mr. GLAssBB. I wish I could. But get to the American public because there are thousands like me who are so frightened of you as individuals, based on one fact, that, coming from a liberal element, liberal background, the fears of you as a committee are very intense. They hate you with all their blood, for one reason: They have been told to hate you by your Communist Party again and other liberal elements. Going way back to the Martin Dies committee, who did a great job with Fritz Kuhn when they got that son-of-a-gun out of the country and got his neck, and the Nazi Party at the time. Once he jumped on a different form of political thinking, they came back at him and slit his throat; the liberal elements. The country has been told, and it has been thrown down their throats by the publicists from the Communist Party-not necessarily .paid publicists but men working throughout the party and able to get these through in various ways-it has been shoved down the American public to hate your committee. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3835 
Mr. JACKSON. I think, if I may say, that Martin Dies has since recovered completely.
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. And what comes out of it still makes a lot of sense.
Mr. GLASSER. He did a magnificent job; no question of it. It is historical. You can't lie with history.
Mr. MOULDER. May Mr. Doyle proceed with his line of questioning?
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Glasser, are you through giving us your recommendations?
Mr. GLASSER. That you should have a deliberate campaign of education of the American public that, "If you have anything to say pertaining to any form of Communist membership at one time or another, come forth. We are not going to hurt you. We are going to help you"-in the way I have been helped.
Mr. SCHERER. Again I repeat, there could be no more effective way than to let the public see through the medium of television just what you are saying and doing here today.
Mr. GLASSER. This is true to a small extent. One appearance wouldn't do it. It is a constant form of punching it. It takes time.
Mr. DOYLE. In view of the fact that I have never spoken with you in my life or knew anything about you except what you have stated today, I am going to ask you this question: Are you in any way, directly or indirectly, being paid or compensated for coming here without a lawyer and testifymg this morning
Mr. GLASSER. Absolutely not. This is silly.
Mr. DovLE. Have you in any way, directly or indirectly, been promised any reward or compensation ?
Mr. GLASSER. Absolutely not. It is silly.
Mr. MOULDER. There is no basis for that.
Mr. DOYLE. There may not be any basis for such a question, but there are people in this room who have sort of a sneer on their face right Vr.now. GLASSER. I am sure they will come forth and say that. I expect villification from that forum. There is no question of it. It is anticipated.
Mr. DOYLE. This witness is not what they call, in the Daily People's World and other anti-American papers, a paid informer.
Mr. GLASSER. They can't think for themselves. They are being told what to think. As far as the petty part of the pettinessMr. MOULDER. Do you have any questions, Mr. Jackson ?
Mr. JACKSON. No; except to say, in the matter of the vilification you will receive you will have a considerable amount of company, including a great many Members of the Congress of the United States who have been elected by their people.
Mr. GLASSER. I would be very proud to get the vilification.
Mr. JACKSON. As long as the name of Max Silver and Dr. Louise Light have been brought into the testimony, it should be in the record that Max Silver and his wife also subsequently saw the same things that you did in the Communist Party, and got out of it. Both of them appeared before this committee and gave extremely valuable information based on their official capacity in the Communist Party. I have nothing further. 3836 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Scherer, do you have any questions?
Mr. SCHERER. NO. 
Mr. MOULDER. Any more questions, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Glasser, the committee desires to express to you our appreciation for your courage and your cooperation and the contribution you have made in informing the public and this committee of such knowledge as you have concerning Communist Party activities. In that connection I wish to say, as an example, I am sure your appearance before this committee will not affect your employment. You have had the courage, the patriotism to come forward and state honestly, without any reservations, your past connections with the Communist Party approximately 13 years ago, and give a very thorough explanation about severing any connections you might have had with the Communist Party. Such conduct on the part of any person who appears before this committee certainly has never and should never affect their employment.
Mr. GLASSER. That is true.
Mr. MOULDER. And I am sure the the rest of the committee will concur with me that the employment of any other witnesses who would be just as honest and straightforward as you have been would not be affected either.
Mr. GLASSER. Your country comes first.
Mr. MOULDER. Unless they continue to believe in the Communist philosophy they would not takePardone me.
Mr. GLASSER. May I make one more statement? The thought that ocurred to us is the fact that the country comes first no matter what. So much so that in time of war when I am drafted and I get a letter from the President of the United States requesting my presence at the induction center, I have got to go whether I like it or not, or whether I believe it or not, or how I feel. This is immaterial. But when my country requests my presence or requests anything from me, I have got to go and I have got to do it. Now your committee has requested my presence here. It is by the same beholden duty I come and talk to you and answer any questions you may have to throw at me as an agency of the Congress of the United States. This is our country. If you don't like it you can always get out, which is an old cliche thrown around many times. The fact remains when you are here and love it as much as I do and intend to stay here and die here, I want to cooperate and work with my country. If you are the elected representatives of my country what more can I say than to come back and say I will answer any questions you want me to without any nonsense or boloney. Many people want to evade these things. Why? What have they done that is so horrible ? What did they do that they have got to escape from the United States of America. Did they throw a bomb somewhere? Did they pass information along? God knows what. They must have done some horrible thing which only they know about for which they would have to escape the United States of America. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3837 If they come here and say, "I take the fifth amendment" you say, "What have you done that is so horrible? Belonged to the Communist Party that was completely official and normal and correct at the time? What is so bad?"
Mr. MOULDER. As you have stated, you wanted to be a liberal, and still have answered the questions. And there could be no question as to your loyalty by the committee. 
Mr. GLASSER. I am still aware of many things wrong in the country. And that will be corrected in time.
Mr. MOULDER. I wish to reinterate my statement I made in appreciation for your clear and convincing testimony.
Mr. DOYLE. I am sure my colleagues join with me in complimenting this gentleman on his musical achievements and attainments. Certainly music is a universal language.
Mr. GLASSER. Yes, it is; my language, anyway.
Mr. MOULDER. Thank you very much, Mr. Glasser. The witness is excused.
Mr. GLAssER. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Glasser. Is she here ?
Mr. GLASSER. My wife, Mrs. Glasser, is right back here.
Mr. MOULDER. The committee will be in order. Will you hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you, God?
Mrs. GLASSER. I do. (Representative Donald L. Jackson withdrew from the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. MOULDER. The photographers will please be seated. TESTIMONY OF KATHERINE GLASSER (MRS. ALBERT GLASSER)
Mrs. GLASSER. Katherine Glasser.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are the wife of Mr. Albert Glasser?
Mrs. GLASSER. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Glasser, you were not subpenaed as a witness; were you?
Mrs. GLASSER. No. I came in voluntarily.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of your husband's testimony the fact of your membership in the Communist Party was made known. We will give you an opportunity to state to the committee, without reiterating his testimony, just what period of time you were in the Communist Party and anything you desire to state to the committee regarding your knowledge of the Communist Party activities.
Mrs. GLAssER. Well, according to my knowledge, I know we got in in 1943 because we base this upon roughly the date my child was born. That day was not rough, but the child was born in January of 1943, and it was shortly after that, a few months, that Max Silver and Dr. Louise Light asked us to join, and we finally did.
Mr. TAVENNER. And how long did you stay in the Communist Party? 3838 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mrs. GLASSER. It was a matter of just a few months as far as I can recall, because I recall the printed little program slip from December 11, 1943, and it was after that that we broke with the entire thing. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Why did you break with the Communist Party? 
Mrs. GLASSER. Because their premises and principles did not agree with ours. We happen to be free thinkers, and we believe in free speech and free opinion, and did not believe in being directed as to what I shall say or what I shall think or how I shall feel at any time, to this day.
Mr. TAVENNER. And you, while in the Communist Party, felt that you were restricted in that way?
Mrs. GLASSER. Yes; in many ways.
Mr. MOULiER. At that point may I ask you this: During the period of time Soviet Russia was our ally in the World War, the Supreme Court of the United States had not yet held or cited the Communist Party as being a world conspiracy to overthrow our form of government by force if necessary. Is that not correct?
Mrs. GLASSER. Yes; that is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you recall the first meeting of the Communist Party that you attended?
Mrs. GLASSER. The very, very first meeting that I recall quite vividly, for obvious reasons, was that meeting-I believe it was a telephone call, and we were told to go to this address at Sunset Plaza Drive. And it was one of these welcome-to-the-Communist-Party meeting things.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know in whose home that meeting was held?
Mrs. GLASSER. No. At first we thought it was in the home of th-Mr. TAVENNER. Don't say whose home you thought it was unless you know.
Mrs. GLASSER. No; I don't know that. We presumed it was the speaker.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. I didn't hear you.
Mrs. GLASSER. I said we presumed that it was the man who spoke to us. We thought it was his home; that was all.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean, "spoke to you"?'
Mrs. GLASSER. Well, trying to tell us the various premises of what the Communist Party intended doing.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean the speaker at that meeting?
Mrs. GLAssER. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the speaker at that meeting ?
Mrs. GLAssER. John Howard Lawson.
Mr. TAVENNE. But you do not know whether it was his home or not?
Mrs. GLASSES. NO.
Mr. TAVENNER. What took place at that meeting?
Mrs. GLASSE. As best as I can recall, it was welcome to the Communist Party, and it was a group meeting of various groups; integration in other words. And then they went on to explain the various premises of what the Communist Party meant, which meant sharing things, all the people sharing the businesses, the various, what we consider liberal premises. And then I became a little disgruntled with certain things because, you know, in order to create a certain situation you have to arrive 'COLMMtNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3839 there by some means. And I wanted to know what the means were. And, as far as I can recall at that time, there was no such thing as revolution. It was all evolution. But it still didn't make sense to me, and I just kept asking questions because after the discussion was concluded they said, "Well, any questions from the people sitting here?" And this just bothered me because I wanted to know what is the eventual deal that we are getting to. And finally he made the statement that-I mean I don't know whether he was mad at me because I was a youngster then, and he might have just blurted it out and not meant it-I can't presume to think for him but this is what he did say: He says, "By revolution, we will be able to evolve all the things that we want."
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there anything else said by Mr. Lawson on that occasion which you recall at this time?
Mrs. GLAssR. Not that I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the musical family or organization?
Mrs. GLASSER. Yes, I am. SMr. TAVENNER. In what capacity? 
Mrs. GLASSER. Well, I am an orchestra manager, which means that I hire the musicians for the orchestras, and I am also a copyist and librarian, which means writing down the notes for the musicians to be-able to play.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to a particular group of the Communist Party after this welcoming meeting referred to?
Mrs. GLASSER. Yes. It was a musicians' group, to the best of my knowledge. I mean, from what I can recall, there were not more than 20 to 25 attending at any one meeting. But they were all musicians. 'Mr. TAVENNER. I believe your husband has testified that several of the meetings were held in your home.
Mrs. GLASSER. Yes, they were. To the best of my knowledge, there were two.
Mr. TAVENNER. Willyou give the committee the names of persons that you yourself can identify as having attended Communist Party :meetings of the group of which you were a member.
Mrs. GLASSER. Yes, I can. Kalman Bloch, B-1-o-c-h, and his wife. I don't recall her first name, but it was Mrs. Kalman Bloch as of 1943. Anita Short, Sam Albert, Doris Albert, Blanche Sweet-Mr. TAVENNER. Doris Albert the wife of- 
Mrs. GLASSER. Of Sam Albert. (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mrs. GLASSER. There was Blanche Sweet and her husband. I don't recall his first name. And Henry Roth, Esther Roth, Mischa Altman, Carla Altman, Herbert Offner, O-f-f-n-e-r, Herbert Lessner, L-e-s-s-n-e-r, and his wife, I believe. Don ChristliebMr. TAVENNER. Just a moment; What is that name? 
Mrs. GLASSER. Christlieb.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell it, please. 
Mrs. GLASSER. C-h-r-i-s-t-1-i-e-b; Victor Gottlieb, Eudice Shapiro Gottlieb. 77436--56-pt. 9--- 3840 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. JACKSON. What is the first name?
Mrs. GLASSER. Eudice, E-u-d-i-c-e. Helen TannenbaumMr. TAVENNER. Spell the name, please.
Mrs. GLASSER. T-a-n-n-e-n-b-a-u-m. Cyril T-o-w-b-i-n, Towbin; Kathryn Becker, B-e-c-k-e-r, Carroll Hollister; Sol Kaplan, and Martha Goldberg.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you leave the Communist Party at the same time that your husband did ?
Mrs. GLASSER. We do everything together. So we left it together, too.
Mr. DOYLE. At that point may I ask this question: To your knowledge were these two meetings of the musicians' group that were held at your home limited in attendance to members of the Communist Party? In other words, was it a closed meeting?
Mrs. GLASSER. From my knowledge-and this I am quite certain of-these were Communist Party meetings. They were closed only to Communists.
Mr. JACKSON. You mean they were open only to Communists.
Mrs. GLASSER. Excuse me. Yes; they were open only to Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there any additional fact you have not already testified to regarding your reasons for leaving the Communist Party that you might want to tell the committee?
Mrs. GLASSER. Well, actually, as I said before, what they wantedFor instance, like, take the Musicians Congress. When they wanted to raise funds they wanted just to have a party and just have entertainers. I said this is ridiculous. How can you do this to people. You just call them in and ask them for funds. You have to give them something. So that is when I started with the dinner, with the turkeys that were discussed. And by the time I got through we had the most beautiful turkey dinner for everybody. They had the most wonderful entertainment, and the entire price was $2. And we still made a profit for the Musicians Congress. So it can be done like ladies and gentlemen instead of just asking people to contribute for their thoughts. And these were things that did disturb me because I don't live this way.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is there anything else you desire to say to the committee
Mrs. GLASSER. Yes. I desire to tell the woman who sat next to me that I am very proud to be my husband's wife, no matter what she said. And I heard everything that she said. I am sorry if I started a disturbance, but nobody says anything about my husband without my permission.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean in this hearing room?
Mrs. GLASSES. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle ? We will have order in the hearing room.
Mr. DOYLE. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Jackson ?
Mr. JACKsoN. No questions.
Mr. SCHERER. No questions. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3841 
Mr. MOULDER. In addition to what you have said, I assume, Mrs. Glasser, you share your husband's views concerning the Communist Party and its objectives?
Mrs. GLASSER. In every possible way.
Mr. MOULDER. Thank you very much. You are excused as a witness. The committee will stand in recess for 5 minutes. (Whereupon, a short recess was taken, there being present Representatives Moulder, Doyle, Jackson, and Scherer.) (The committee was reconvened upon expiration of the recess, there being present Representatives Moulder, Doyle, Jackson, and Scherer.)
Mr. MOULDER. The committee will come to order, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Herbert Offner, will you come forward, please.
Mr. MOULDER. Will you hold up your right hand. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. OFFNER. I do. TESTIMONY OF HERBERT OFFNER, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, FRANK PESTANA
