Mr. TowBIN. I want to give you my name, Mr. Counselor, under protest. I am brought here under compulsion. My name is a very good one. It has been honored and respected, and I know too well-and who doesn't-that the name mentioned before this committee amounts to a kiss of death. My name is Cyril Towbin. It is spelled T-o-w-b-i-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record.
Mr. MARGOUs. Ben Margolis.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Towbin?
Mr. TowirN. I was born in New York City on August 9, 1897.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mr. TOWBIN. I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Los Angeles?
Mr. TowBIN. Approximately 15 or 16 years. I came to Los Angeles about the year of 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession ?
Mr. TOWBIN. I am a musician.
Mr. TAVENNEE. How long have you been engaged in the practice of your profession in Los Angeles?
Mr. TOWBIN. I have been engaged in the practice of my profession in Los Angeles ever since I arrived, sir, which is about since 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the commitee, please, briefly, what you formal educational training has been?
Mr. TowBIN. I attended the public schools in New York City, and from the earliest times that I can remember, thanks to the good direction of a principal of my public school, who was a great Americanhe taught me to respect the Constitution of our Government and to defend it at all times, which I intend to do here, sir. I went to high schools in New York City. I had education privately through scholarships with the greatest master of his time in New York City, in music, privately and in an institution, the Institute of Musical Art. I guess I can call all of my life an education because I consider an education the fact that when I was about 17, I organized and directed one of the first community orchestras under the sponsorship of the well-known politician in New York. My education continued when I enlisted in the Army. And before I enlisted in the Army I had a great education when I made a tour of the South and the East playing for the wounded soldiers coming back, the first wounded coming back from World War I. This was one of the greatest and most painful educations I can think of. That is why I have dedicated my life ever since that time to the cause of peace and cultural relations with all peoples. My education continued all during the time that I had the privilege of teaching. I taught a class of blind pupils in New York at The Lighthouse. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3863 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you teach in New York?
Mr. TowBIN. At The Lighthouse. It is a blind school.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you teach there?
Mr. TowBIN. I can't remember that year. I was quite a young man at the time. But I have taught a great many years in my life.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was before you came to California ?
Mr. TowBIN. Oh, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Towbin, during the course of the 1954 hearings(The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TowBIN. I believe, Mr. Counselor, I didn't quite finish my background.
Mr. TAVENNER. Instead of answering my questions, you have gone rather far afield. I asked you for your formal educational training. You were giving that and a great many other things, too. If there is anything else regarding your formal educational training, we would be glad to hear it.
Mr. TowBnN. This all I consider as a part of my education, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. That wasn't what I asked you. Your statement is not responsive to my question. I wanted to know where you attended school in connection with your profession, or where you attended school in connection with your general studies.
Mr. TOWBIN. I think the record will show that I did give you this information.
Mr. MOULDER. May I ask you, did you say you were in the armed services?
Mr. Tow N. Yes, sir; for a short time.
Mr. MOULDER. How long?
Mr. TowBIN. Well, it was a matter of a few months. It happens I enlisted just before the close of the war.
Mr. SCHERER. Which war?
Mr. TOWBIN. The First World War.
Mr. MOULDER. In what branch of the service were you in ?
Mr. TowBIN. I was in the heavy Coast Artillery at Brooklyn. No. I am sorry. I will think of it in a moment. I will be glad to give that to you.
Mr. MOULDER. We will give you an opportunity to state the extent of your Army service. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner. It was at Fort Hamilton, in New York.
Mr. TowBIn.
Mr. TAVENNER. In connection with the hearings conducted by this committee in 1954, in Seattle, a person by the name of Elizabeth Cohen appeared as a witness before this committee and identified you as being a member of the Communist Party in this area. You have also been identified to the committee by other persons as having been a member of a branch of the Communist Party known, or sometimes referred to, as the musicians branch.
Mr. TownBN. Did you say that happened in Seattle, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, I didn't. I said a witness, in connection with that hearing, testified you had been a member of the Communist Party here in Los Angeles.
Mr. TowBIN. Oh, I see.
Mr. TAVENNER. This person herself having been a member of the Communist Party and having left the Communist Party. 3864 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA And, as I was in the process of saying, the committee has other information that you were a member of this branch of the Communist Party. Is it true that you were a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TowBIN. In reply to that question, Mr. Tavenner, I would like to say the following: I have always been brought up to consider that an informer is the worst specimen of humanity. He has always been detested, dishonored, and ostracized from a civilized community.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe the answer is not at all responsive to the question.
Mr. MOULDER. Counsel asked a question which would call for a direct answer, and the committee will give you a reasonable opportunity and time to reply directly to it.
Mr. TowBIN. I am very glad to answer it.
Mr. MOULDEB. Respond to the question by answering it or decline to answer the question.
Mr. TowBIn. Mr. Chairman, I am very glad to answer this question because I want to reflect my feelings on the kind of testimony that is being accepted by this committee.
Mr. MonLDER. Let's put it this way: If you intend to answer the question, and I am sure that is in accord with the feeling of the committee, I direct you to answer the question, and then you may make any explanation you wish of your answer.
Mr. TowBIN. Will I be given that opportunity to express my opinions about it after I have answered it?
Mr. MOULDER. After you have answered the question.
Mr. SCHERER. If you answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. If you answer the question.
Mr. SCHERER. Not if he refuses to answer.
Mr. TowBan. What difference does that make, Mr. Scherer ?
Mr. SCHERER. There is a lot of difference.
Mr. TowBIx. I have the protection of the Constitution of the United States that I may decline in my innocence to answer any such improper question.
Mr. SOHERER. Mr. Chairman, just a minute.
Mr. TOWBIN. I am very glad to answer this question if you will allow me, sir.
Mr. SCHERFR. You said that Elizabeth Cohen was an informer, and you began to attack this woman. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. Whether she is an informer or whether she is not an informer, did Elizabeth Cohen, when she testified before this committee under oath, lie about you when she said that you were a member of the Communist Party? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TowBIN. Which question is pending ?
Mr. SCHERER. The one I just asked you is pending now. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TOWBIN. How about the first question? Is that withdrawn, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. SCHERER. It is withdrawn temporarily.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. TOWBIN. Will you repeat your question, Mr. Scherer? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3865 
Mr. SCHERER. You attack Elizabeth Cohen, saying that she was an informer. I am asking you whether or not the testimony given under oath to this committee about you by this Elizabeth Cohen was true or false ?
Mr. TOWBIN. Mr. Scherer, I think I am entitled to due process. And will you be willing to produce this character, Miss Elizabeth Cohen, for cross-questioning.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that the witness be directed to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question. (The witness confers with his counseL)
Mr. TowBIN. Mr. Scherer and gentlemen of this committee, if you don't produce this witness or this informer for cross-questioning, I will refuse to answer this question on the grounds that I refuse to dignify the droppings of an informer by an answer. And I stand on the grounds as guaranteed me by the first amendment, which provides that I have freedom as an American citizen to associate with whomever I please, to speak and think as I please, and also on the grounds of the fifth amendment which provides that an innocent person need not testify against himself.
Mr. SCHERER. Witness, the real reason- 
Mr. TowBIN. Don't you try to interrupt my answer. Don't put words in my mouth. I know what I said. The record stands, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. The real reason, isn't it, Witness-I am asking you another question-that you refuse to say whether this woman who testified before this committee was lying is because if you do so you would be committing perjury yourself? Isn't that the reason?
Mr. Toweci. Mr. Scherer, you heard my answer. The record stands, and I will stand by my answer.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. What is the question pending now?
Mr. SCHERER. Will you read the question, please?
Mr. MoTrDER. I believe the question is in the nature of an argument.
Mr. SCHERER. No. What the question was, Mr. Chairman, is, Isn't it a fact ? Will you read the question? (Whereupon, the record was read by the reporter, as follows:) The real reason, isn't it, Witness--I am asking you another question-that you refuse to say whether this woman who testified before this committee was lying is because if you do so you would be committing perjury yourself? Isn't that the reason?
Mr. SCHERER. A perfectly good question. I ask, Mr. Chairman, you direct the witness to answer the question because the witness gave one reason, and I don't believe that that is the real reason. So I have a right to ask him. And he can answer whether or not the reason he refuses to say whether Elizabeth Cohen was lying is because he would be committing perjury if he answered that question affirmatively.
Mr. MOULDEi. Very well. If there is no objection by any member of the committee, the witness is directed to answer as requested by the gentleman from Ohio, Mr. Scherer. 3866 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TowBIN. Mr. Scherer, isn't it true that if you had confidence in your so-called witness that you would produce her for cross-questioning? 
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TowBIN. In answer to this second question, I consider it the same question as the previous one in different words, and I have already answered that, and I stand on my previous answer for the grounds given.
Mr. SCHERER. In other words, you feel that to answer my question might tend to incriminate you. Is that right?
Mr. TowBIN. Mr. Scherer, you are resorting to the same kind of tricky, slimy questioning that is trying to put me in a bad color here.
Mr. SCHERER. No. 
Mr. TowBIn. Don't try that with me, sir, because I know what rights I have as an American citizen. I resent this.
Mr. SCHERER. You may resent it, but I resent your attitude also.
Mr. TowBIN. My attitude is perfectly respectful, as it should be, to the Congress of the United States. I cannot speak for you personally, sir. 
Mr. SCHERER. I appreciate that.
Mr. MOULDER. May we proceed. As I understand it, the witness has claimed the privilege under the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. JACKSON. I say again that I see no reason in pursuing any line of questioning with these witnesses having to do with any alleged activities in the Communist Party after they have indicated beyond any peradventure of a doubt that they do not intend to divulge any information in their possession. I would respectfully suggest that with such witnesses that the material upon which the interrogation is based be read into the record, that an effort be made to determine the past or present membership of the witness, and that, upon his declination to answer, he be excused from the stand. We are taking up hour after hour with idle byplay, which is serving absolutely no purpose, and IMr. TowuIN. I concur in that.
Mr. JACKSON. I was about to say-I am sure you will agree with me-that we are falling right in with a predetermined plan of the witnesses to hamstring and delay the taking of testimony. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. To the extent that we lend ourselves to that program I think that we are permitting them to hamstring the committee and to destroy its utility. And I would respectfully suggest that these tactics be frustrated by the committee. And, as far as I am concerned, I have one question to ask the witness, which I will propound at this time, and that is whether or not you are now, sir, or have ever been a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TowaIN. Mr. Jackson, as a member of our Congress, I think you should know this is a highly improper question under the law under which you are operating, supposed to be, and under the Constitution of our United States. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3867 
Mr. JACKSON. Very well. I am very happy to have your opinion. Now will you answer the question, sir ? 
Mr. TOWBIN. Since it is an improper question and it concerns an organization which you have named and which has been arbitrarily put on the so-called subversive list, I refuse to answer this question on the grounds of the 1st amendment, as previously stated; on the grounds of the 4th amendment, as previously stated; on the grounds of the 9th and 10th amendments, as I haven't stated but I will so state now; and on the grounds of the 5th amendment, which needs no furtherMr. JACKSON. I would suggest that the witness be excused from the stand.
Mr. TowBIN. Mr. Chairman, before I am excused, may I very respectfully make one request ?
Mr. MOULDER. May I ask you a question
Mr. TowBIN. Yes, sir.
Mr. MoULDER. As an American citizen, do you have any knowledge or information concerning any-subversive or disloyal activities on the part of any person against our Government? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TowBIN. Sir, that I may have the question clear, will you please repeat it? I want to be sure I have the question clear.
Mr. MOULDER. It is a very simple question. Do you have any knowledge or information concerning any subversive activities or disloyalty committed or planned by any person in this country against our Government or the United States of America?
Mr. TowBiN. Thank you, sir. I do know one thing, that what may be considered subversive by one person may be perfectly patriotic to another. I have heard on this platform, in previous hearings, one of your own Members of Congress who has-I am talking about something which I consider subversive, sir.
Mr. MOULDEr. My question is a very simple one. I am just asking you as a patriotic person. And any American citizen would be proud to so state if he does have any such knowledge or information. He would answer the question or he would say that he doesn't have any such knowledge.
Mr. TowBIN. I am trying to give you an instance which I thought was very subversive, sir, if I may be permitted to continue.
Mr. Jackson, it is directed against you, sir, if you would ge good enough to listen to this.
Mr. JACKSON. I would be happy. I have heard it before, but I will listen to it again.
Mr. TowBIN. I have a direct quote that I happen to have before me. I considered it considerably subversive, sir. On Thursday, September 20, 1951, and this I have from the United States Government transcript of these.hearings, page 1680, part 5, and I am quoting from your statement, sir: If we didn't have the fifth amendment we probably would find out where a lot of people are at work trying to destroy the rest of the Bill of Rights and the rest of the Constitution of the United States. 3868 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. SCHERER. I concur in that statement.
Mr. TowBIN. I wouldn't be a bit surprised on that.
Mr. SCHERER. You can quote me.
Mr. TOWBIN. The reason I consider that subversive, sirMr. JAcKsoN. At least I have not been brought before any of the tribunals of the United States Government. And if I am questioned about that in the proper tribunal I would be very happy to cooperate with any official body. To that extent our attitudes differ very much.
Mr. TowBIN. I also remember, sir, being present when you denied having made this statement.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you know of any Communist or subversive activities or disloyalty to the United States or the United States Government? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TowBIN. You know that this is, again, a very important question, Mr. Moulder, and I will not go into discussing any such matters before this committee. All my friends, relatives, colleagues throughout this country and abroad know exactly how I feel on everything. But, under compulsion, I refuse to answer this question on the grounds previously stated, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. TownIN. May I make one request, Mr. Chairman? (Representative Donald L. Jackson withdrew from the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. DoYLE. I understood the witness to plead the 10th amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. TOWBIN. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Because it is so unusual that a person pleads that, I thought I would just read it as this point and see if I was mistaken.
Mr. TOWBIN. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE (reading): The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively or to the people.
Mr. ToWBIN. Exactly, sir. That is precisely the sentence on which I depend.
Mr. DOYLE. I have no further questions.
Mr. TowBIN. May I make one request, sir?
Mr. SCHERER. NO. You didn't answer any questions.
Mr. MOULDER. No questions. 
Mr. TowBIN. I have just as much right to refuse as to answer, sir, for your information.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused.
Mr. TowIN. May I submit a statement for the record?
Mr. SCHERER. No, no, no.
Mr. TownIN. Thank you for your courtesy, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Helen Teverniti.
Mr. MOULDER. Hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mrs. TEVENum. I do. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3869 TESTIMONY OF HELEN TEVERNITI, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, BEN MARGOLIS
