Mr. ROTH. Henry Roth, R-o-t-h.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record.
Mr. MARGOLIS. My name is Ben Margolis.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Roth?
Mr. ROTH. Pardon me, Mr. Chairman. May I submit a short statement to be put on file for the committee?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes; you may. The statement is admitted.
Mr. ROTH. I would like to read it. It would take about a minute and a half. I would really appreciate if I could read it.
Mr. MOULDER. The statement will be admitted, and is on file. Therefore, let's proceed with the examination of the witness. What is the question pending ?
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born?
Mr. ROTH. New York, August 20, 1916.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. ROTH. Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles
Mr. ROTH. Off and on since 1923; most of the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what profession are you engaged?
Mr. ROTH. Well, I am basically a professional musician, but, like most musicians, by virtue of our permanent 80 percent unemployment, I have done other things. I have been in the building game, and I am also a student.
Mr. TAVENNER. But essentially you say you are in the musical profession ?
Mr. ROTH. Well, I would say essentially all three of those would be correct, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3855 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you essentially in the musical profession in this area in 1943?
Mr. ROTH. I believe so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. ROTH. I have gone to grammar school. I am a high-school graduate. I have had extensive private training on the violin. I have been a violin soloist. I have been under contract at the studios, and later on my education consisted of, well, when I helped my union to get some $2 million a year in wage increases from the Hollywood studio producers, and when I helped to end the Jim Crow racial segregation in my union, and when I appeared before the Kearns investigating committee, which I imagine you gentlemen know aboutMr. TAENNER. Were you educational director of an organized group of the Communist Party in 1943 composed almost exclusively of members of the musical profession?
Mr. ROTH. Well, sir, that has to do with my political affiliations, and I am going to refuse to answer that on the following grounds: The first reason, this attempt to blacklist outspoken members of my union, is an attack upon my union, and I will not cooperate with it.
Mr. DOYLE. Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. I am going to object to this. This witness came here to make a speech manifestly, and I am objecting, and require that he be confined to stating his legal reasons for refusing to answer the question. He has filed a statement. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. ROTH. May I read the statement, Mr. Doyle? It is short.
Mr. DoYLE. No.
Mr. ROTH. It is a promise.
Mr. DOYLE. I ask that he be confined to his legal reasons like all other witnesses are confined.
Mr. MOULDER. We cannot tolerate your complaints and accusations against the committee, and the Chair will recognize your privilege of giving reasons for declining to answer.
Mr. ROTH. Mr. Moulder, I honestly promise to be short. I honestly promise to be short.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed then.
Mr. ROTH. Secondly, the second reason is that I consider this an invasion on my private rights under the first amendment for this committee to use me as an attempt to get free election publicity in the coming election campaign.
Mr. MOULDER. I assure you I am not getting any.
Mr. ROTH. Third, sir, I would like to know if your hurry is in order to get down South and investigate the Ku Klux Klan.
Mr. DoYLE. Just a minute. I am going to insist that this witness confine himself to legal reasons.
Mr. MOULDER. You will be given one more opportunity to answer or decline to answer the question.
Mr. ROTH. Mr. Chairman, are you legally adjusted to my reasons, sir? 
Mr. MOULDER. We are offering you a reasonable opportunity to answer7743--6---pt. 9- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3856 
Mr. ROTH. I have a right to state them. 
Mr. MOULDER. Or decline to answer and state your reasons for not answering the question.
Mr. ROTm. I have a right to state them, sir, I believe, and I haven't taken time.
Mr. MOULDER. So far you have not, and the witness will be excused because you decline to answer the questions.
Mr. ROTH. What is your question ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. ROTH. Am I ordered to answer the question?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes; you are directed to answer the question.
Mr. ROTH. What is the question, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. The question, which you have not paid any attention to, is whether or not in 1943 you were a member of an organized group of the Communist Party in Los Angeles composed exclusively or almost exclusively of members of your profession.
Mr. SCHERER. And your question added whether or not he was educational director of that organization.
Mr. TAVEHNER. Yes. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. That is the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I withdraw that last question. 
Mr. ROTH. You have me confused now. I don't know what the question is.
Mr. MOULDER. So we have no doubt, I suggest the reporter go back to the original question and read it.
Mr. ROTm. Will I get the original time limit or is that going to beMr. MOULDER. Let the reporter read the question. (Whereupon, the record was read by the reporter, as follows:) Were you educational director of an organized group of the Communist Party in 1943 composed almost exclusively of members of the musical profession? 
Mr. ROTH. Do you Congressmen agree that this is the question I have to answer?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes. The witness is directed either to answer or decline to answer the question.
Mr. RoTH. Very well then, I will start again. I must refuse to answer that question because I feel this hearing is deliberately timed to the affairs of my union, to achieve national publicity, and is an attack upon my union.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness will be removed from the witness stand for deliberate contempt of this committee.
Mr. RoTH. I am still giving my reasons.
Mr. MOULDER. The committee will stand in recess until 1:30.
Mr. ROTHn. I am still giving my reasons on the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. You got it in, didn't you ?
Mr. ROTH. I sure did. 
Mr. SCHEREE. I move that that last answer of the witness be stricken from the record because it was made after he was ordered to leave the room and after the committee was adjourned.
Mr. MOnLDE. The record will speak for itself. The committee was not in session when he made the statement. .. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3857 (Whereupon, at 12 noon, the committee was recessed, to be recon- vened at 1: 30 p. m., this same day, there being present Representatives Moulder, Doyle, and Scherer.) AFTERNOON SESSION-THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1956 (The committee was reconvened upon the expiration of the recess at 1: 40 p. m., there being present Representatives Moulder, Jackson, and Scherer.)
Mr. MOULDER. The committee will be in order. Call your next witness, please, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Chairman, before we commence the afternoon session, I would like to say that it has been obvious to me that there has been, upon the part of a number of the witnesses who have testified before this committee, a planned and deliberate attempt to harass the committee and to delay and to interfere with the work of the committee. The last two witnesses in particular have participated in this attempt, and, to my mind, they are guilty of contempt. Therefore, I am going to move that the subcommittee recommend to the full committee that the last two witnesses, Henry Roth and Sam Fordis, be cited for contempt of Congress.
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. MOUDER. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKsoN. May I at this time acknowledge receipt-and I am not going to read the letter, but I think it should go into the recorda letter from Victorio Toriano, who identifies himself as a busboy in a local restaurant, and who has sent in, with his congratulations and expression in support of the committee, a $5 bill to be used in the fight against communism, from which he says he is happy to be an escapee. While the Treasury is in not too good straits, it is not the intent or purpose of the committee to solicit or use or accept any money of this kind, and it would be my hope that the chairman of the subcommittee would express the thanks of the committee to Mr. Toriano, and that his money be returned to him.
Mr. MOULDER. The subcommittee will return the money, and express our appreciation for the sentiments expressed in this letter.
Mr. JACKSON. And I ask also, Mr. Chairman, that the letter be inserted in the record at this point.
Mr. MOULDER. It is ordered by the subcommittee that the letter referred to by Mr. Jackson be inserted in the record at this point. (The letter referred to follows:) APRIL 17,1956. Chairman and Members of the House Un-American Activities Committee at Present in Los Angeles: HONORABLE GENTLEMEN: Although I'm a person of humble background and occupation-at present I'm a busboy in a local restaurant-I want to congratulate all of you for the fine job you are doing: exposing those who wittingly or otherwise are helping or have in the past helped the Communist cause. I also would like to congratulate you for the patience and fairness you've displayed yesterday towards those subpoenaed, the majority of whom behaved like boors and not "cultured," as they so loudly claim to be. I'm quite sure that even I, with almost no education, would have behaved like a sensible adult 3858 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA should. I'd like to add also that, although I never had the means, I've managed to travel a little. I've been to a few foreign countries, not as a tourist, and I assure you, gentlemen, that there's not a single country in the world where witnesses such as Mrs. Edith Rapport could have behaved the insolent way she did yesterday towards you and gotten away with it. She knows very well that if she had behaved that way in her native Russia, if fortunate, she would at this moment be in solitary confinement; if unfortunate, she probably would already have been disposed of. Now, concerning Mr. Rubin Decker's "deep concern" for Nat King Cole and the Negro in general, I'd like to state as a member of a racial minority that
Mr. Rubin Decker's kind is not sincerely concerned over the Negro or any other minority except for propaganda purposes. If Mr. Rubin Decker's kind would ever get in power, we, the so-called racial minorities for whom he and his kind weep so copiously now, would be the first to go under the heels of these potential tyrants. To finish, I'd like to very respectfully ask you to please accept the five-dollar bill I enclose to be used in the fight against the Communist conspiracy and their native and foreign puppets. I only wish that I was financially able to give more to you. Give my best regards to Rep. Francis E. Walter, truly a great American, and keep up the good work. Yours for the great United States of America, VICTORIO TORIANO, 634 Sunset Boulevard,Los Angeles 12, Calif. P. S.-Please overlook any grammatical mistakes I may have committed in the course of my letter. As for William D. Waddilove, let it be known that it takes a lot more guts to state that one has been a Communist than to hide behind the 5th or any other Amendment. Three Bravos 'or him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to offer in evidence at this time a photostatic copy of an affidavit of registration of Henry L. Roth, bearing date the 17th day of April 1948, showing an intention to affiliate with the Independent Progressive Party. I also offer in evidence a petition of the Independent Progressive Party of California, at the end of which there is an affidavit over the name of Henry L. Roth, bearing the date the 15th day of February 1948, stating, in substance, that he had circulated this petition and obtained the signatures thereto. I ask that these documents be admitted in evidence and marked "Roth Exhibits Nos. 1 and 2," respectively. (Representative Clyde Doyle entered the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. MouaLDER. It is so ordered. (Exhibits referred to follow:) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3859 ROTH EXHIBIT NO. 1 ENOF TRANSFER R Iast ritered udr A I RI IN .~ " -l....m - . . T I NGEOF NAE of- LosANGELEI CITYPREC .tCT xO. _J3_ZJ AFFIDAVIT OF REGISTRATION. Ihereby ;utho ; ethue heurnelition of ' saidegtration. "ST EN OFO A ES, } SS The undersigned affint, being duly swore, says: I will be at least twenty-one years of age at the time of the next succeeding election, a citizen of the United States ninety days priorthereto,and a resident of the State one year, of the County ninety days, and of the Precinct forty days next preeding such election, and will be . an elector of this County at the next succeedingelection 1. I have notregistered from any other precinct in the State since Janary 1,1936. 2 (when)ll .. 3. My . ... ..... . l btl ... d of havy been on -ng 4 Myroccpaon (. h. ) . . . . . . . ' . . a enthed tm to voteig wrintendame; . 1 tili ion withthe primary l chr ~Au I (u~i , dol.i ,iti bipy I c- . W ^^ ...... ..Ftoo. R... c .inn 7. acquired *t .a.. - I A 5. My heighti,........"'.... feet . washo .......... L(.w....-.. .. t .u. .idnce i s RANGSFR EATH wBbNJI! siiiii.. . -- e of Voters HE lou^^seW .. ............. .... .......................... iiulrinnis) bty..i5..e read the Constitution in the English language:;I can ....write my name; I am entitled to rote 8. I c -by reason of having been on October 10. 1911) i ',XESSi,,, ,i.. I can............mar my ballot by reasonof .. Subscribe and swornto be .. .... . . . methis .7 t.. Deputy Registrarof Voters. ... . . E 435543 ........ ^P 3860 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA ROTH EXHIBIT No. 2 IPPC 2"66 INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE PARTY OF CALIFORNIA PETITION TO PARTICIPATE IN THE PRIMARY ELECTION JUNE 1, 1948 Circoted l th Coty (or City ud Conoty) /-l S .4- - --- - - STATE OFCALIFORNIA, Coty (or City ad County) ofl1 . LN L1C-.l. TO THE HONORABLE SECRETARYOF STATE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA: We. the udtrsilgoed,r.gliterd. qualUid eiotor of .th State of Californi. president of thp £Le County (or City d County)ofLos A /V C. . State of Cliorli. prsnot to the Socrotary of State of the St1te of California th Petitionand dlar thatwe reprnt a political puty.th n m of whibl is INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE PARTY OF CALIFORNIA,which party eltors d. aLr to have partlclps.ti the PriaTy Elitlon to b bld on Jouo 1.1S. uld 6 HANE RESIDENCE stl -- ~~ ~ " - STATEOF CALIFORNIA. Co-tr for City sodCooounty) ofiA ..... fsLd . . ...... t.sttI a ud duiISgU thet n wLi ad uNmo. ~ --- ^ ~- Dktof Cil osTown --- ~-^ ~ --- ~ - .--- /.£i L . ologf-t dulymo, dspo.sod-Mtfngsignature u reaofir -t forthwu • qunlUto sd .sltfsd electorof . sop. nesd Coufty(or City od Cont) of O .. r £ 1..... ud of the State of Calofonos:I t s p5r5onwho Olilefd t. signaturesto the attached ad fogoing Petition;sl th.**Ignt ag to the attachedsection were madeIn my prons d oponthi dt show after ech silptuer, aod at th. tioe ach signersignedhis name to old Petition h.o s flod thwao hi anc u bove statd, andthe dat of said algning., d sld signatfo ws lk td by m o sth aitho. aood Couty (orCitysd County)of S bt of my knowldp ,d .llaf. ach aisaturo to the -Id section ij ths gaonubos pmon who as* It purportsto b. otscttd sodswo to efopos- thtS' u-ON, c. = d .A ad o tm of tb ofC <d ° "a, Os I ' COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3861
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, there have been several individuals identified as members of this Communist Party musicians' group during the course of the testimony and who have not been subpenaed. For lack of time, the staff and the committee did not attempt to subpena them. I desire to offer in evidence at this time a petition of the Independent Progressive Party of California, at the end of which there is an affidavit by Seymour Sheklow, bearing the date the 6th day of February 1948, in which it is stated that he is the individual who circulated this petition and solicited the signatures. I ask that it be marked "Sheklow Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MOULDER. It is so ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. And I desire also to introduce in evidence another petition of the same character, at the end of which there is an affidavit over the name of Samuel Albert, bearing date the 29th day of January 1948, in which it is stated that he is the individual who solicited the signatures thereon. I ask that it be marked "Albert Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MOULDER. It is so ordered. (The above-mentioned petitions, Sheklow exhibit No. 1, and Albert exhibit No. 1, are similar to Roth exhibit No. 2, p. 3860 and will not be reproduced in the printed record. They are on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I might say that the last-named individual appeared before this committee on the 7th day of April 1953, and at that time refused to answer any material questions, relying upon the fifth amendment. Will Mr. Cyril Towbin come forward, please?
Mr. Towbin?
Mr. MARGOLIS. I think he thought it was 2 o'clock. The impression was it was 2 o'clock. Do you want to wait a minute? I will see if he is outside.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Victor Gottlieb.
Mr. BROOKS. Mr. Gottlieb was to meet me here at 1: 30. I expect he is on his way. I will make a phone call.
Mr. MARGOLIs. I think Mr. Towbin will be here in 2 or 3 minutes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me know when he arrives?
Mr. Manuel Compinsky.
Mr. MARGOLIS. Mr. Towbin is on his way down the hall now.
Mr. BROOKS. Mr. Compinsky is here, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will call Mr. Towbin first.
Mr. MOULDER. Please hold up your right hand and be sworn, Mr. Towbin. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ? I do.
Mr. TowBIa. 3862 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA TESTIMONY OF CYRIL TOWBIN, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, BEN MARGOLIS May I just say that if I appeared to be a little delayed it was because I had been told the hearing would start at 2 o'clock.
