Mr. ELIAS. My name is Lewis J. Elias.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell your first name?
Mr. ELIAs. The first name is L-e-w-i-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Elias, it is the practice of the committee to advise all witnesses that they have the right to have counsel present with them if they so desire, and the right to consult with counsel at any time during the course of their testimony.
Mr. ELIAS. I understand, sir. I have thought it over in my own mind, and I don't feel that I have need for counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. By that, do you mean that you propose to tell the committee all that you know regarding Communist Party activities?
Mr. ELIAs. I propose to tell the truth as far as I can remember it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession? 
Mr. ELIAS. I am a musician, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you reside in Los Angeles? 
Mr. ELIAs. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNES. When and where were you born?
Mr. ELIAS. I was born in 1922 in Boston, Mass.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you move to California?
Mr. ELIAS. I was 2 years old when I came here.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3871 
Mr. ELIAS. I graduated from high school here.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged professionally as a musician ?
Mr. ELIAS. I would say I possibly started professionally when I was about 15 years old.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has your employment in that field been confined to the area of Los Angeles?
Mr. ELIAS. Only until the last about 7 years. Since that time I have done some traveling outside of Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time during the practice of your profession as a musician ?
Mr. ELIAS. That would be very approximate, sir. I can't remember the exact dates. Probably about the middle of 1946 to the end of 1947. I don't think I was in 1948. If I was I might have attended a very few meetings, but I doubt it.
Mr. TAVENNEE. So your membership was confined to that period?
Mr. ELIa. That is right, sir, as far as approximate is concerned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly the circumstances under which you became a member ?
Mr. ELIAs. When I got out of the Army I started working in the motion picture studios.
Mr. TAVENNER. During what period were you serving in the Armed Forces?
Mr. ELIAS. It was 3Y2 years. Do you want to know the exact years?
Mr. TAVENNER. About when did you return from the service ?
Mr. ELIAs. 1945, I think; about June.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. Proceed, please.
Mr. ELIAS. Working at that time fairly extensively in the motionpicture studios, I was struck that there was a certain economic crisis in the musicians' affairs. There were many reasons for that, but it was very obvious to me. I saw many older musicians, very well respected, who had difficulty finding jobs. It was sort of a goal of mine, a very strong goal, to try to improve that in any way possible. There was an organization called the Union Activities Committee. I understood the purposes of that organization were to devise ways of improving the economic situation of musicians in any way possible. When I heard about it, it had a great appeal to me, and I felt that I should join that organization. I attended all their meetings. I was very sincere in the objectives of that organization. Around the middle of 1946 I was at a friend's house, and we had quite a long conversation. The gist of it was his recognition of my desires to help the music situation, to help other musicians, and also to help myself in that same respect. He informed me that the people who were doing this kind of work to help musicians were Communists, that they knew how to help the musicians, and they seemed to be the only people who cared about helping the musicians. There was quite a long conversation, but that was the major point.
Mr. MOULDER. Did you name this person ?
Mr. ELIAS. His name was Edgar Lustgarten.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell that name, please, sir. 3872 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. ELIAS. L-u-s-t-g-a-r-t-e-n. He felt because of my beliefs in that matter that I should join the musicians branch of the Communist Party to further that. I remember quite vividly that conversation. I remember what I said, that I couldn't join the Communist Party because I knew about communism, I didn't believe in it, and I could never be a Communist. But he informed me that that really had no bearing. If I really wanted to accomplish what I felt-this was the only way to do it. In the end his argument swayed me, and I was swayed to that. His argument swayed me, and I said I would join.
Mr. MOULDER. Was he, too, a musician?
Mr. EIAS. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say he told you, in order to persuade you to get into the Communist Party, that it didn't make any difference whether or not you were a dedicated Communist?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you were in the Communist Party, did you find any effort was being made to make a dedicated Communist out of you?
Mr. ELIAS. Eventually, yes. May I go into that when I discuss something else? Is that all right?
Mr. TAVENNER. Quite all right.
Mr. ELIAS. I found out in the very first meeting that they were trying to make a mass party out of the Communist Party, trying to recruit as many people as possible. And the expression "working on people" was bandied around quite a bit at that first meeting. So in the very begining there was not too much bearing on actual communism, but on trying to get as many people as possible into the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time that you entered this group of the Communist Party, how many persons in your group do you think were actively engaged in the work of the Communist Party.
Mr. ELIAS. That is a difficult question to answer because there were various numbers at the meetings. I could estimate there were about 50, but that is just an estimation. I never saw that many in one particular group.
Mr. TAVENNER. WVhat was the average attendance at the meetings you attended?
Mr. ELIAS. It could have been about 25 people.
Mr. TAVENNER. But not always the same people?
Mr. ELIAS. No: that is true. Sometimes there were less. And as time went on it got to be a great deal less; maybe just 10 people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what activities you observed in the Communist Party after you became a member of it. What work were they principally engaged in at that time in 1946 and 1947?
Mr. ELIAS. There comes to me one specific thing. That was in the period of the studio strike and theMr. TAVENNER. Was that the Conference of Studio Unions? Is that the strike to which you are referring?
Mr. ELIAS. That was one union against the International Alliance of Stage Employees (IATSE). COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3873 I recall that the Communist Party was fully in back of the Conference of Studio Unions at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you know that?
Mr. ELIAS. Probably about twice when I was there, an outside member of the Communist Party-by that I mean someone not a musician, but a man who was active in the strike, and a member of the Communist Party came to the musicians branch and lectured and discussed this strike, and asked the musicians to support the accomplishments of studio unions in every way possible. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENKER. Who was that individual?
Mr. ELIAS. His name was Paul Perlin.
Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Perlin?
Mr. ELIAS. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Perlin was subpenaed before this committee about 2 years ago here in Los Angeles, and he refused to answer any material questions, relying upon the fifth amendment as the reason for refusal. Was the Conference of Studio Unions under the leadership of Herbert Sorrell?
Mr. ELIAS. Yes. That is what I recall, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you find when you joined this group of the Communist Party, the musicians branch, that there were other persons who had'worked With you in the Union Activities Committee ?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. And who were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were those individuals?
Mr. ELIAS. I am trying to remember as best I can. I remember at the beginning Mischa Altman was active in that. Jack Pepper, Seymour Sheklow, Jean Musick.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that last name ?
Mr. ErLs. Jean Musick.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it?
Mr. ELIAs. I believe it is M-u-s-i-c-k. Rubin Decker, Sam Fordis. There were others, but I can't specifically remember if they were in that group or not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Suppose at this time you give us the names of all the persons that you can recall who were members of the musicians branch in addition to those you just named.
Mr. ELIAS. Outside of what I named, Henry Roth and his wife, George Sandell and his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the first names of the wives of the two persons you mentioned ?
Mr. ELIAS. It was Esther Roth and Beatrice Sandell. Victor Gottlieb.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it?
Mr. ELIAS. G-o-t-t-l-i-e-b. And his wife, Eudice Shapiro. Manuel Compinsky, C-o-m-p-i-n-s-k-y, and his wife Dorothy. George Kast, Sidney Greene, Rubin Decker, Sam Fordis, Seymour Sheklow, Tamara, T-a-m-a-r-a Hovey, H-o-v-e-y. Sam Albert, Joe Pass, Wayne Ronka, Anita Short, Joe Eger, E-g-e-r. Joseph DiFiore, D-i-F-i-o-r-e. 3874 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Louis Kievman, K-i-e-v-m-a-n. Jean Musick-that is one I already mentioned. Leonard Selic, S-e-l-i-c. Don Christlieb and his wife, Pearl. Cyril Towbin, Herbert Offner, Kalman Bloch and his wife. I don't know her name. Larry Goldman I saw one or two times. Betty Sugar, Morris Browda, B-r-o-w-d-a. I believe the first name is Milton, Kestenbaum. Lydia Marcus, Paul Powell, Alex Walden. And just before I left the party I saw Philip Goldberg, Morris Boltuch, B-o-l-t-u-c-h.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you say you saw them what do you mean?
Mr. ELAs. I mean at party meetings.
Mr. JACKSON. Closed Communist Party meetings?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct, sir. There was another person that I saw once, but I must say the reason he was there is because he left the party and he came there to give his reasons for leaving. His name was Milton Feler, F-e-h-e-r. I saw Paul-No, I am not sure of his first name. His last name is Dessau; something like that. D-e-s-s-a-u. He is now in East Berlin. He is a composer.
Mr. TAVENNER. In East Berlin ?
Mr. ELIAS. As a composer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, we understand that he has renounced his American citizenship.
Mr. ELLAS. There might be some other people, but I can't recall them right now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are all of these individuals whom you have mentioned persons known by you to be members of the Communist Party, or to have been members of the Communist Party?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct. Some of them attended very irregularly. I am not discussing anything about what they did or anything, but I have seen them in the closed meetings.
Mr. SCHERER. What was the name of the person identified by the witness who has since renounced his American citizenship ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Dessau, D-e-s-s-a-u, now in the Eastern Zone of Germany.
Mr. SCHERER. He is at least being forthright.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know whether any of the individuals you named have left the party subsequently or are no longer members of the Communist Party?
Mr. ELIAS. There is really no way of my knowing that, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. I thought perhaps you might have known some of them on a personal basis and that you have seen them since.
Mr. ELIAS. In my own case, when I left the party I made a definite attempt to actually try to forget my past association, and I have been out of town quite a lot, which was very good for me in that respect. I haven't associated with these people too much.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period of time that you were in the Communist Party did you learn whether it was interested in trying to capture any of the positions of leadership in your union?
Mr. ELIAS. It was definitely against the administration, and it would liked to have either some of its own people in office, but probably, preferably, to have other people whom they felt would be friendly. I didn't see that ever happen. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3875 
Mr. TAVENNER. You say then that it was not successful insofar as gaining any control over your local union was concerned?
Mr. ELIAS. I know of no officer of the union who was a member or even close to it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You said you were in the Communist Party up until during the year 1947.
Mr. ELIAS. Approximately, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why did you leave the Communist Party?
Mr. ELIAS. Well, many things. One of the most oppressive things that I have ever gone through in my life was in the Communist Party. There was complete thought control in that party. When I first became a member everything that I knew from before seemed to just be taken away from me. The heritage of freedom of thought, in my opinion, is the most glorious thing about this country, and I certainly, up to that time and since that time, have used that very appreciatively. But I found in the Communist Party that there was only one goal or, rather, one action, and you had to follow that action. If you didn't you were either a Fascist or a Trotskyite or just plain stupid. It was something I couldn't live with at all because I like to express my thoughts, and I like to hear all various opinions on every subject. I think there is also something that is of great import to me that is dangerous. There is blind obedience to the dictates of a magazine called the Political Affairs, I believe, that comes out about once a month. I don't know if it does now or not. But that comes from the headquarters of the Communist Party. I never heard any criticism of any of the articles in that magazine. And it seemed to be the duty of the Communist to accomplish the ends which this magazine wanted done. The writings of that magazine were not only from American Communists but they were from other countries-China and so on. It was very evident to me from when I first joined the Communist Party that there was really no respect at all for the individual, not only outside of the party but inside of the party. This, too, is one of the most important things in our American democracy, individual freedom and protection of other people. There was also a personal thing I resented very much. I might say this: I am primarily interested in music and the entertainment industry. So I was interested in reading what the party had to say about books, motion pictures, and so on. And I found that the criticism would be on an ideological basis. I never went for that. I used my own opinion, and sometimes I would mention to somebody else I liked a certain motion picture, and they would say no, and they will give me the same story that I just read in one of the Communist organs. There was tremendous scorn of liberal people, and a contempt for reformers, although they would use people as much as they could. I felt that personally, because at that time I guess I thought of myself as a reformer. I think the main things is that they like to get people working for their ends, but they must control what is being done. In a sense I think that is why it is doomed to failure. 3876 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA They just about killed the liberal movement in this country because of the infiltration. To me, that is a cardinal sin. But I think the main specific thing why I left was that at one meeting Mischa Altman said, "The good and worth of any act or action that an individual or group of Communists does is if it aids or enhances socialism." I realized fully that that was his morality and possibly the morality of the Communist Party. That was never my morality.
Mr. TAVENNER. By that do you mean that, regardless of the means, it was the end that justified it?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that what you mean ?
Mr. ELIAS. Yes. For myself that was a long road from wanting to help the economic situation of musicians, to a point where the only thing that is goo/ is if it benefits socialism. I left the party. I didn't bother to resign officially. I guess that is about it.
Mr. JACKSON. Was any effort made subsequent to your departure to rerecruit you into the party?
Mr. ELIAS. Many of the party members knew my dissatisfaction and dislike of the methods used and the objectives, so I didn't find that. I did find incidents which were a little disturbing.
Mr. DOYLE (presiding). Do you have further questions, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. Did your associate members in the Communist Party at times refer to you as a Fascist ?
Mr. ELIAS. There was a specific incident. I guess it was a couple of years after I left. I was called by a member of the American Legion post in the musicians' union, and they were starting a symphony orchestra. The person told me what music was going to be played and who the conductor was, and I thought I would like to come down and play. I went to this rehearsal. Subsequently my name was printed in the union magazine. There was a small article about that. Later I met a leading figure in the Communist Party. I mean I met him in a market. And he said, "I saw your name, that you play in this American Legion orchestra. I didn't know that you turned Nazi."
Mr. TAVENNER. That individual then was more interested in the political implications than he was in music for art's sake, was he not?
Mr. ELIAs. Yes. There were really no political implications of that rehearsal, but I guess he thought there were. I found many times-in fact, always-that the leading figures would never discuss issues with you, or even argue with you or debate with you. If you disagreed with them, as I said, you are considered either dumb or anti-Communist. I was even told once when I was in the party-I managed to have a disagreement with Mischa Altman, and, instead of enlightening me possibly or giving me reasons, he just said, "Well, you're going to end up in a concentration camp."
Mr. DOYL. Said what? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3877 
Mr. ELIAS. He said, "You're just going to end up in a concentra- tion camp."
Mr. SCHERER. IS that when you left the Communist Party ?
Mr. ELIAS. When I was in the party and disagreed with him.
Mr. SCHERER. You hadn't even left?
Mr. ELIAs. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was that individual who made the comment you described as to your playing in the American Legion band?
Mr. ELIAS. That was Henry Roth.
Mr. SCHERER. Henry Roth, the same witness who was on the stand here this morning?
Mr. ELIAS. I wasn't here this morning, sir.
Mr. SCHEER. I think he is still back here. Is Roth still here ? Yes; he is in the back row. Stand up. Is that the man?
Mr. ROTH. He's a liar, for the record.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Chairman, just a minute. I ask that we excuse this witness for a minute, and call Mr. Roth and let him repeat under oath that this man is telling a lie. Come on up, Mr. Roth.
Mr. DoYLE. We will recess the testimony of the present witness, Mr. Elias, and call Mr. Roth. (Witness temporarily excused.)
Mr. DOYLE. Are you ready, Mr. Roth, to come under oath again ?
Mr. ROTH. My attorney isn't here.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Marshall has spoken to you. He is an attorney at the bar.
Mr. ROTH. I prefer to wait for my own.
Mr. DoYLE. Will you call and get him here where you can take the oath again ? As long as you have called this man a liar in public, in the hearing room, we would like to have you put under oath again.
Mr. SCHEREE. I say we should call him forthwith. We only want to ask him one question. Let him demonstrate it.
Mr. ROTH. I want my counsel, and I prefer to have him.
Mr. DOYLE. Will you come forward just a minute, please. I recognize your right of counsel. I am not trying to force you to testify without your counsel. But you are being advised by Attorney Marshall. So I suppose that is all right.
Mr. ROTH. I would prefer to wait for my own attorney.
Mr. SCHEER. Let him wait for his own attorney.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, we always favor a witness having counsel. When do you want to testify under oath before this committee again ?
Mr. ROTH. As soon as my attorney comes into the room I will be happy to.
Mr. DOYLE. Who is your attorney?
Mr. ROTH. Mr. Margolis.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Margolis was here. Is he due here with other clients?
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't know.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, may I make a suggestion, that if Mr. Margolis has not reappeared during the balance of the afternoon that
Mr. Roth be resubpenaed to appear here tomorrow morning with his counsel. 3878 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYrE. Will you be here tomorrow morning at 9: 30, Mr. Roth?
Mr. RoTH. I would prefer to do it today if my attorneyMr. JACKSON. I say if he does not show up.
Mr. RoTH. If he doesn't come, may I then have a choice of another attorney ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, indeed. But, at any rate, Mr. Roth, you are under order to be here tomorrow morning, if Mr. Margolis doesn't appear this afternoon. We always favor giving anyone who wants to contradict a statement made under oath, a, chance to go under oath himself and contradict it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Elias, will you come forward.
Mr. DOYE. Mr. Elias, will you please take the stand again. TESTIMONY OF LEWIS ELIAS-Resumed
