Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. ELIAS. I don't know what I was just called when he walked by. I expect to be called a lot of things by some people.
Mr. SCHERER. Before we go any further, may I interrupt? A few minutes ago in your testimony you identified Henry Roth as a member of the Communist Party; did you not?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. SCHERER. You were under oath when you identified him?
Mr. ELAS. That is right.
Mr. SCHERER. You also identified Cyril Towbin as a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ELIA. That is correct, sir.
Mr. SCHERER. And Sam Fordis also ?
Mr. ELIAS. That is right, sir.
Mr. SCHERER. I think I would want to call Mr. Cyril Towbin back also, Mr. Chairman, at a later date because he was here this morning, and he was the witness who made such disparaging remarks about Elizabeth Cohen who had identified him in Seattle. Now we have this gentleman here, and Mr. Towbin is in the room. And I would like to have him now deny this man's testimony, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think he is still here.
Mr. DOYLE. We are glad to offer you, Mr. Towbin, the opportunity to come and be under oath and deny the witness' testimony. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left from the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. DOYLE. Some of you gentlemen have hollered about never having a chance to answer. Here's your chance, Mr. Towbin.
Mr. SCHERER. I think we can subpena him.
Mr. TowBIN. Mr. Doyle, I simply say my attorney is not here at present. I again will repeat what I said under oath, that I would refuse to dignify the droppings of an informer under any circumstances.
Mr. DOYLE. All right. Is that your answer to my invitation to you to take the stand and go under oath ?
Mr. TowBIN. I am glad to testify under oath to anything that is honest and honorable as an American citizen, sir. 'COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3879
Mr. DOYLE. You have heard this gentleman's testimony.
Mr. SCHERER. I think we will subpena him tomorrow now. He is the witness who complained this morning, when you read Elizabeth Cohen's testimony. 
Mr. TowBIN. You refused to produce this witness for cross-questioning. And I can have my rights as an American citizen, too, as well as you can. 
Mr. DorYE. We have a witness right here on the stand.
Mr. SCIIERR. I wanted to show the fallaciousness of his contentions.
Mr. DoYLE. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. You had not quite completed your statement.
Mr. ELIAS. Of course, maybe this is out of order, butMr. SCHERER. I'm sorry I interrupted, but I wanted to demonstrate here what we are up against and the hollowness and fraud that is perpetrated by these individuals when they attack the so-called informers. They don't dare get on the stand and deny the testimony under oath because they would obviously be guilty of perjury. Then they come and parade about innocence. (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. DOYIE. All right, Mr. Elias. Are you prepared to proceed further?
Mr. ELAS. I wasn't going to go into all of this. It is personal. But, after what happened, I would like to.
Mr. DorLE. All right.
Mr. ELIAS. I have had a great heritage in my life-religion, and a heritage of this great country; training, parents and teachers. I have tried to use it to the best that I could all my life. There was a certain period where I didn't. There was something personal in that. The year before I joined the Communist Party I had a complete nervous breakdown, and it took me a few years to really get back on my feet, though I got back. Thank God I am on my feet, I think, better than before. I can only do and say according to my conscience; not what anybody tells me. I can only do and say what is right for my country and the people who have trained me to be a good citizen and a good person. When I left the Communist Party I completely disassociated myself from it. I was fortunate enough to get away from these people, make friends for the first time in my life, not on the basis if they were a Democrat or a Republican or anything, but the basis of a person. But even then I found it wasn't enough. There was something inside of me that bothered me. And I knew what it was. I felt that it would be in an emergency or war; I didn't want one American to waste his time bothering if I am loyal or not because I know I am. For that reason I went to the Federal Bureau of Investigation before all this happened. Some of these people, I know, are not revolutionaries. They are misguided, misled, frustrated individuals. If they could just think themselves without benefit of the people sitting next to them and getting together, I wish they would do what I consider the right thing. I have nothing against any person, but I have everything against the Communist Party. 3880 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No, Mr. Chairman, I have no questions, except to observe again how unfortunate it is that we do not have the facility to put the words of witnesses before the people of the community, as I am very much impressed by the sincerity of the witness. I think that those of us who serve on the committee realize what an ordeal psychologically, emotionally, it is to break with the party, with associates, people with whom one has been on very close terms. We realize what an ordeal it is to come before the committee and to tell this committee and the Congress of the American people of one's experiences in the Communist Party. I sometimes think it takes a considerably greater degree of courage to sit there in the almost audible scorn which is emanating from certain quarters of the room and to be frank and complete in your testimony in an effort to help us in the job we are trying to do. I want to express my appreciation to the witness and thank him on behalf of the House of Representatives, if I may.
Mr. DOTLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I just wanted to point out, Witness, that you came here and answered all the questions, and I do not think that there is any fairminded person in this room who does not believe that you absolutely told the truth under oath. I do not think there is a fairminded person in this room who does not believe that when he identified Sam Fordis, Henry Roth and Cyril Towbin as members of the Communist Party he was telling the truth because those men were on the stand this morning, and all three of them refused to say whether or not they were members of the Communist Party. They won't deny it now.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask one more question ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. In order to lay aside the paid-informer charge, with which you are familiar and which you will probably hear more of in the columns of the Daily People's World and elsewhere, were you offered any emolument, any reward, anything in order to make possible your testimony here today?
Mr. ELIAS. I would like to answer that question. I am certainly glad you asked me because I am under oath now. To me, when I left the offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and when I am leaving here, I feel somewhat that I have regained the precious citizenship which I kind of felt like I had lost. That is a great reward, and I really don't care what anybody calls me.
Mr. SCHEREE. You should not worry about that. You have company in the committee.
Mr. EIAS. Thank you.
Mr. SCHEREE. We do not worry about it either.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask, for the record, Mr. Elias, I have never spoken with you in my life, have I? We have never met?
Mr. ELIAS. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. 'That is, before this incident. I want to ask you: Directly or indirectly, have you been offered any compensation of any sort by any person to testify as you have here today? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. ELIAS.
Mr. DOYLE.
Mr. ELIAS. the future.
Mr. DOYLE. 3881 I haven't been offered any compensation of any kind. Or any promise of any sort? I have had no promises of any kind of anything, or in I have conferred with my colleagues, and, as acting chairman of this subcommittee, I am going to continue you under the power of the subpena.
Mr. ELIAS. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. If anyone tries to interfere with you, let Uncle Sam ,know. 
Mr. ELIAS. Thank you, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. We will handle it. And, in view of the fact that I offered these two gentlemen, one of whom called you a liar, an opportunity to testify again will you hold yourself subject to Mr. Tavenner's call?
Mr. ELIAS. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. We may want you to take the stand again after they do, if they do. We want you here to hear what they say, if they say anything.
Mr. ELIAS. All right, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. Any other questions, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you, Mr. Elias.
Mr. ELIAS. May I leave? 
Mr. DOYLE. You are excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. This would be a convenient place for a break, if you want a recess. 
Mr. DoYLE. We will recess for 5 minutes. (Whereupon, a short recess was taken, there being present Repre- sentatives Doyle, Jackson, and Scherer.) (The committee was reconvened upon the expiration of the recess, there being present Representatives Doyle (presiding), Jackson, and Scherer.)
Mr. DOYLE. The committee will reconvene, please. May the record show that 3 members of the subcommittee of 4 are present.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Leonard Dahlsten. 
Mr. DOYLE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you, God?
Mr. DAHLSTEN. I do. 
Mr. DOYLE. Be seated. TESTIMONY OF LEONARD H. DAHLSTEN, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, EDWARD C. MADDOX
