Mr. COMPINSKY. My name is Manuel L. Compinsky.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spll your last name.
Mr. COMPINSKY. C-o-m-p-i-n-s-k-y.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. BROOKS. Arthur A. Brooks, Jr.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Compinsky?
Mr. CoMPINSKY. I was born in England, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What date?
Mr. COMPINSKY. 1901. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you first come to the United States? 
Mr. COMPINSKxY. I came to America in 1925.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a naturalized American citizen?
Mr. COMPINSKY. I was naturalized in 1931.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where.
Mr. COMPINSKY. In New York State. I think it was Westchester. It was completed in Westchester.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside ?
Mr. COMPINSKY. In Burbank.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in California ?
Mr. COMPINSKx. I came to California in 1933, but I concertized and I moved around about. But I think I stayed here permanently from about 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. COMPINBsY. I am a concert artist.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in that profession,. commercially ?
Mr. COMPINSKY. Well, I was considered a child prodigy, and I have been at that since then, you might say.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your formal educational training?
Mr. COMPINSKv. I had the usual elementary tuition, and then I went to Clephane's College in London-C-l-e-p-h-a-n-e's. And my musical education was in Trinity College. I studied with famous teachers like Emanuel Sauret-S-a-u-r-e-tLeopold Auer, and Eugene Ysaye-Y-s-a-y-e. And during the First World War years I had the unfortunate education of the bombing of London. I say this because it was a kind of education which taught me to abhor anything connected with force and violence, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not asking you for your life history. I asked you for your formal educational training.
Mr. COMPINSKY. Well, that was about it. And I went to America in 1925. I taught at the Trinity College in 1920 to 1925. I was offered a professorship there.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have virtually been here since 1925 ?
Mr. COMPINKYs. That is right-since 1925.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have heard considerable testimony regarding an organized Communist Party group in Los Angeles composed almost exclusively of members of the musical profession. We are endeavoring to ascertain just in what way the Communist Party was using that group. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3893 I want to call on you to help the committee in understanding that problem.
Mr. COMPINSKY. Well, sir, if you will allow me to give my reasons and my legal reasons, after expressing my legal groundsMr. JACKSON. Is there a pending question? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. NO; I was explaining why I wanted to question him. I was hoping that you might be able to give this committee the facts within your knowledge. I am sorry there has been an indication that you are not willing to do so, but I still have hope. Were you aware of an attempt being made by the Communist Party to use musicians to advance its political interests? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. COMPINSKY. Well, sir, I regret I must decline to answer that question, on my constitutional privilege of the first amendment. And, if you will be so courteous as to let me explain my reasons, I would like to explain and express them, the reasons I have, which will only take a minute and a half. It is being respectful.
Mr. TAVENNER. It will be quite sufficient if you would state your legal grounds without going into all of the personal reasons that you may have for not wanting to answer the question.
Mr. COMPINSKY. I don't want to be misinterpreted, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you confine yourself to your legal reasons you couldn't be misinterpreted. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, may I make a suggestion in that connection ?
Mr. DoYLE. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. In contrast with the attitude of many witnesses, the present witness has, in every manner that I have been able to observe, conducted himself in a respectful and dignified manner. I would suggest that it would be completely compatible with the rules if the witness desires to submit a statement to the committee. It is provided for in the rules of procedure, and, if it does not take the form prohibited by the rules of the committee, in that it attacks the motives of the committee or the Congress of the United States, I would ask that it be included in the transcript of the hearings at this point.
Mr. COMPINSKY. Sir, I think what I have to say will be, and it shows respectfully, in regard to my constitutional answers. Sir, if you will only give me the privilege, I would appreciate it. It will only take a minute and a half.
Mr. JACKSON. As far as I can go, it is the suggestion that I have made, that it be incorporated as a prepared statement which can be handed to the reporter.
Mr. BROOKs. May I inquire ? In other words, he will just hand the reporter the statement rather than reading it. Is that your suggestion?
Mr. JACKSON. Subject to the approval of the committee, however.
Mr. BROOKS. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. That is my suggestion.
Mr. DOYLE. We will adopt the suggestion if the witness desires.
Mr. TAVENNER. It will be necessary to inquire whether, in that statement, he is relying in part upon the fifth amendment. 3894 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. COMPINSKY. Yes, I am. (The statement referred to is as follows:) STATEMENT OF MANUEL COMPINSKY Gentlemen, when I received your subpena to appear here for questioning I experienced a chain reaction of mixed feelings which moved from one of shock to indignation. But now I am glad you invited me because in the last few weeks you have caused me to become reacquainted with myself. In having to appear before you I have had to dig deep within myself to face certain values. We often take values for granted until something happens to make us realize we may be losing them. My first thought was, yes, I will answer all the questions about my life and profession. Then a thought struck me. I have done nothing wrong. All my neighbors know me well. I have respected them and never hurt them or invaded their privacy. My colleagues know me well. I have respected them and have never invaded their privacy. I have lived faithfully as an American citizen respecting the Constitution and every law of the land. Why this invasion into my privacy? America has been waving her flag of democracy to the rest of the world, a beacon of light for all the world to see of liberty and freedom. I remember when I arrived in America I had a thrilling experience as the Statue of Liberty greeted me, a symbol of freedom for all peoples regardless of race, creed, or color. In all these years as an artist I have performed with all kinds of people and for all kinds of organizations in every type of situation regardless of race, creed, or color. I have never questioned them as to their beliefs of any kind. I have listened to all beliefs with great interest, as I feel that only in that way can a person mature and gain understanding. As an artist I cannot possibly function and be of value unless I can think freely and associate freely with my fellow beings. We are living in an era of enlightenment. There is no need to fear ideas. New ideas made this country. And today, if new ideas are not accepted and nourished by the citizens of America, they will automatically die a natural death. That is my belief. Most of my life has been dedicated to music and in every era there have been new composers who spoke a strange language. For example, I have spent much time with the music of Arnold Schoenberg, not because I like his music, but because I must keep an open mind for ideas I do not understand. That is progress. Because I do not understand or dislike a certain composer's music, should I organize a committee to abolish the performance and the publication of his works? It sounds preposterous, doesn't it? Let us remember that criticism is healthy. New ideas will always be subject to criticism. Conformity chokes out imagination and originality. As an example of democracy in action, I would like to present a symphony orchestra. Here we have a hundred men and women, regardless of race, opinions, and personalities, who assemble to work together in harmony and to create a work of art for all to hear, and elevate the spirit to higher levels of living. Our democracy benefits from the example of musicians who live together and work together for a common aim in peace and brotherhood. Music is an art that brings peace and it can only thrive in an atmosphere of peace. Beethoven wrote his ninth symphony for the brotherhood of all men. I believe in that heritage. There can be no brotherhood if people inform and point out each other because they may differ on opinions. That breeds hate. There is room for differences in this big world of ours and it is possible to live in peace and have respect for each other as human beings, for there is no problem that cannot be solved amicably if we try enough. In summation of what I have said up to now, I would like very much to be myself, but in this terrible atmosphere of compulsion, I find it impossible to be so. I have lived by the laws of our land and will continue to live by these laws as guaranteed by our Constitution. I hope to continue to enjoy my right to think, speak, and associate freely. Therefore I must decline to answer your questions on the grounds of the first amendment, supplemented by the fifth amendment. Some may think I am hiding behind such a privilege. Actually I am standing in front of the fifth amendment, for the protection of the innocent. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3895 In conclusion, I would like to add that we all tend to take our liberties too much for granted. They need to be fought for and protected. Otherwise we may lose them altogether. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, with that understanding, I will just ask you one or two further questions. I have before me a photostatic copy of an Independent Progressive Party petition marked for identification purposes as "Compinsky Exhibit No. 1." The affidavit at the end of the petition shows that Manuel Compinsky solicited the signatures on it. The date is February 2, 1948. Who asked you to circulate this petition? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. COMPINSKY. I regret, sir, and I have to decline on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Examine the petition, please, and state whether or not the signature appearing there is your signature, and whether it was put there by you. (Document handed to the witness and his counsel.)
Mr. CoMrPisxY. I respectfully decline to answer the question, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document above referred to in evidence, as "Compinsky Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. DorE. It will be received and so marked. (This exhibit is similar to Roth exhibit No. 2, p. 3860, and will not be reproduced in the printed record; it is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COMPINSKY. I am not, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party when the subpena was served on you for your appearance here? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. COMPINsxY. I decline, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party yesterday ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. COMPINSKY. I am sorry, sir, the some grounds. answer on the same grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. Any questions, Mr. Jackson ? I decline to 
Mr. JACKSON. No questions. 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. Just that, while this witness invoked the fifth amendment, I think he did so in a proper and a dignified manner, and invoked it in most instances properly.
Mr. DOYLE. The witness is excused.
Mr. COMPINSKY. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Brooks?
Mr. BROOKS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you advise me when your client comes, and I will put him on.
Mr. BROOKS. I believe Mrs. Gottlieb was here. She was subpenaed. Woud you like to have her now ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Mrs. Gottlieb, do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mrs. GOTTLIEB. I do. 
Mr. DOYLE. Please be seated. 3896 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA TESTIMONY OF MRS. EUDICE GOTTLIEB, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ARTHUR A. BROOKS, JR.
