Mr. GOTTLIEB. My name is Victor Gottlieb.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record.
Mr. BROOKS. Arthur A. Brooks, Jr.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Gottlieb?
Mr. GOTrTIEB. Philadelphia, May 17, 1916.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. GOTTLIEB. In Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles?
Mr. GorrTTLB. Approximately 15 years. 3888 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation or profession?
Mr. GOTTLIEB. I am a musician, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in the practice of a professional musician?
Mr. GOTTLIEB. I would say approximately 20, 21, 22 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, briefly, what your formal educational training has been?
Mr. GOTTLEB. I studied privately and entered the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia at the age of 12. Upon my graduation I entered the Philadelphia Orchestra as the youngest member of that organization at that time. Before conclusion of the first season I was released from my contract to form the Coolidge Quartet that was then being formed. I played and traveled extensively over the Northern Hemisphere for approximately 5 years, after which I joined the Pro Arte Quartet of the University of Wisconsin. After that I enlisted in the Army Air Forces, and, after serving and an honorable discharge, I entered free-lance work in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was approximately what year?
Mr. GOTrLIEB. I was discharged in December of 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been a member of the musicians branch of the Communist Party in Los Angeles at any time between 1945 and the present date
Mr. GOTTLIEB. I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you answer my question, please, sir?
Mr. GorTLIEB. Well, as I said, it is a compound question. Could you separate it?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, it is not compound. I have asked you if you have been a member of the Communist Party at any time between 1945 and the present date.
Mr. GOTTLIEB. May I consult counsel, please, sir? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GOTTIEB. Sir, I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first and the fifth amendments of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. GOTTLIEB. Excuse me, sir. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GOTTLIEB. I have answered that, sir. I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1948?
Mr. GOTTLEB. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you aware of a plan of the Communist Party to have its members assist in putting the Independent Progressive Party on the ballot in the State of California?
Mr. GOTTLIEB. Sir, is that party on the Attorney General's subversive list ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. GorTTLIB. Excuse me, sir. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GOTTLEB. I decline to answer that question on the previously stated grounds. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3889 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you participate in a plan to assist the Communist Party in putting the Independent Progressive Party on the ballot in this State?
Mr. GOTTLEB. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds. May I address this committee for one moment?
Mr. DoYLE. If it is an appropriate remark.
Mr. GorTLEB. In my opinion, it is, Mr. Doyle. I want to say that, as you already know or think you know, everything you are going to know about me, the conclusion seems inescapable to me that the only reason I am here is for the sole purpose of seeing that I am blacklisted, to make sure my talent and experience cannot be used to bring pleasure to the American people.
Mr. DOYLE. It is in, but we won't have any more time for that, I am sure.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I don't think it should be let go that abruptly. I think the witness is here not because he is a musician, not because he is an artist of note, but, rather, because of sworn testimony which indicates to this committee that he was in fact, a member of the Communist Party and that he did engage in the activities about which counsel has questioned him. This somewhat hysterical position that one is here because he is a musician, and that it is the desire of the committee to blacklist-Mr. GOTsIEB. I haveMr. JACKsON. Just a moment. To blacklist anyone because of his occupation, is one of the most fallacious charges that is made against the committee. You are here because it was hoped by the committee that, on the basis of information and evidence in the possession of the committee, you would see fit to cooperate with the committee in telling it what you knew, if you knew anything, with respect to the matters under consideration which are clearly matters within the jurisdiction and the purview of the committee. That is the reason you are here. I do not think that you yourself really believe that Members of the Congress of the United States came out here to put you in the witness chair to make sure that you never got a job. If you do I think that you had better disabuse your mind of it because that was not our purpose.
Mr. GOTTLIEB. I am glad to hear that, sir. I only meant to say that, as you already know, you knew what you were going to learn from me, and that it was my impression that it was then the desire to make sure is the-point I bringMr. DOYLE. May I ask this question: You have stated twice, "I am not a member of the Communist Party now." To be frank with you, I assume that you got out of the Communist Party for good cause. Why don't you help Congress to understand, therefore, how the Communist Party operated when you were a member of it, if you were? Why don't you help the United States Congress to understand why you got out, if you did? In other words, I am not going to impute to you, in view of your answer, that you never were a member. But the frame of my question indicates naturally, that I assume from your answer that there 3890 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA was a time when you were in the Communist Party because you said, "I am not now a member of the Communist Party." Why don't you help us if you got out of the party in good faith? I assume you got out for good cause.
Mr. GOTTLIEB. Sir, I feel that I am cooperating with this committee to the fullest extent consistent with the Constitution.
Mr. JACKSON. Let me say to the witness, while the cooperation may fall short, certainly the attitude of the witness has been somewhat refreshing.
Mr. GorrLIEB. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Gottlieb, I hand you a photostatic copy of an Independent Progressive Party petition marked for identification as "Gottlieb Exhibit No. 1." Will you examine the affidavit, appearing at the end of the petition please, and state whether or not the name appearing there is your name. (Document handed to the witness and his counsel.)
Mr. GOTTLTEB. I decline to answer this question, sir, on the previously stated grounds, namely, the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence, as "Gottlieb Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. DOYLE. It will be received and so marked. (This exhibit is similar to Roth exhibit No. 2, p. 3860 and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file m the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. This affidavit bears the date of February 4, 1943. The name of the affiant is Victor Gottlieb, and the affidavit shows that Victor Gottlieb solicited the signatures appearing thereon.
Mr. GOTTLIEB. If I may add one sentence to that which I said before, I don't believe, gentlemen, that the American people will believe that I, a musician who spent my entire life in that calling, could possibly be considered a threat to the internal security of our country.
Mr. TAvENNER. Do you feel that it is not a threat to this country for the Communist Party to deceive the public in putting its own party on the ballot under the name of some other party ?
Mr. GorrT=EB. Excuse me. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GOTTLIEB. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. May I state this to the witness: Certainly this committee does not believe that every person that is in the Communist Party is necessarily a revolutionist in the sense of being willing to use force and violence. We certainly are not charging or inferring that every member, every musician in Los Angeles who happened to be in the Commie cell was necessarily a hard-core Communist. But we do have plenty of evidence that many of you members of the Communist cell among the musicians did, at the direction of the Communist Party in Los Angeles, circulate these petitions as a direct subterfuge to California voters, to get the IPP on the ballot as an active front for the Communist Party. And we have evidence, from former Communist Party members that they didn't reveal to these electors whose names they solicited, the fact that it was being circulated deliberately by the Communist Party.
Mr. SCHERER. And it is possible that this particular witness may not have fully understood the full import of what he was doing. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3891 
Mr. GOTTLIEB. Without discussing that particular- 
Mr. SCHERER. I am merely saying he may not have understood what the program was. It is possible. His testimony might reveal the fact thatMr. DorLE. Let's proceed. But we are going to assume that you were not a willing party to the fraud.
Mr. JACKSON. Any member of the Communist Party, on the basis of the evidence which we have in this particular group, knew full well the purpose for which the petitions were circulated. I regret very much that this witness, who is obviously a man of intelligence and probably great talent, has seen fit to go just so far in his denial of Communist Party membership but has also seen fit to stop there and say, Beyond that I will tell you nothing." I place the testimony of the witness precisely in the same category as that of any other witness who comes up here and declines to answer any questions concerning his Communist Party membership. I want my position clear.
Mr. DOYLE. Let me ask the witness one question. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time this petition was circulated in 1948, which appears to have your name thereon? That is giving you an opportunity.
Mr. GOTTLIEB. Sir, I believe you are trying to link me with a period and an activity which you allege is subversive. I must decline to answer that question on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. We are not trying to link you with it. We are trying to give you a chance to unlink yourself from it, if you can.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party when the subpena was served on you to appear at this hearing ?
Mr. GOTTLIEB. I decline to answer that question, sir, for the same reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. 
Mr. DomE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. SCHERER. No questions. 
Mr. DOYLE. You are excused. Thank you. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Joseph DiFiore. 
Mr. BROOKs. Mr. Tavenner, I represent Mr. DiFiore. I expect him here a little later.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. Do you represent Mr. Feher?
Mr. BROOKS. Who? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you represent some other person who is now present.
Mr. BROOKS. Yes; Mr. Compinsky.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well, we will call Mr. Compinsky.
Mr. BROOKS. I might state at this time I would like to thank you and Mr. Wheeler for the consideration you have given me in arranging the schedule for my witnesses. I appreciate it.
Mr. DOYLE. I wish to say, in return for that, we know we have highly ethical, highly cooperative and highly distinguished counsel.
Mr. BRooKs. Thank you, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DomLs. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you, God?
Mr. COMFINSKY. I do. 3892 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA TESTIMONY OF MANUEL L. COMPINSKY, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ARTHUR A. BROOKS, JR. 
