Mr. LYTroN. My name is Bart Lytton.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel, Mr. Lytton?
Mr. LYTTON. I am, though I was told that maybe a personal bodyguard would be better. My counsel is Robert A. Moffitt.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your address, Mr. Moffitt?
Mr. MorFITT. 403 West Eighth Street, Los Angeles 14, Trinity 8341.
Mr. TAVENNER. We wanted it only for the purpose of the record.
Mr. VELDE. May we have order?
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Lytton?
Mr. LYTTON. I was born in 1912 in Pennsylvania.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where in Pennsylvania?
Mr. LYTTON. In Lawrence County.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee, please, what your educational training has been, that is, what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. LYTTON. Yes. I went through grade school, preparatory school, Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va., Westminster College, and the University of Virginia, and I took some graduate courses at Northwestern University.
Mr. TAVENNER, What is your occupation?
Mr. LYTTON. Real-estate development and finance.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever had any occupation other than that of the real-estate business?
Mr. LYTTON. Yes, I was a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been in Los Angeles?
Mr. LYTTON. Approximately 13 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to that time were you in business?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your employment has been, that is, describe it in a general way, since you came to Los Angeles 13 years ago?
Mr. LYTTON. It might take a long time, in terms ofMr. TAVENNER. I mean not too much in detail, but just to give us a general idea of the nature of your work.
Mr. LYTTON. Well, first in Los Angeles I did police reporting for several magazines and the Country Press. Following that I worked in radio, and then in motion-picture studios; I worked in motionpicture studios through 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since that time have you been in business for yourself?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir. I went in business in 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. How were you employed between 1944 and 1948?
Mr. LYTTON. Rarely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Lytton, in sworn testimony before this committee by Mrs. Townsend, Mrs. Pauline Townsend, we were advised that you at one time were a member of the Communist Party. Is that information correct?
Mr. LYTTON. It is, for a very brief period. 382 CO nMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long a period of time were you in the party?
Mr. LYTTON. There were two brief periods. I would say one was approximately 4 or 5 months and the other was a matter of 6 weeks, 6 or 8 weeks in all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you willing to tell the committee what your experience in the Communist Party was and answer any questions which may be askea you regarding your knowledge of the Communist Party activities?
Mr. LrrToN. I am not only willing, Mr. Tavenner, I will be very pleased to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Some witnesses apparently are not willing to advise the committee of their knowledge of Communist Party activities. I am glad to learn that you are. What motivated you or what has motivated you in expressing your willingness to advise the committee of what knowledge you have of the Communist Party
Mr. LYTTON. Well, Mr. Tavenner. I never would have had any unwillingness at any time, including the time that I was in the Communist Party. It strikes me that this is a duly constituted committee of Congress, and at any time in my hfe I have felt that the processes of law were to be observed, and if one didn't like what happened, there were many ways to protest that, but that the protest-well, if a traffic police officer gives me a ticket, I don't tear it up, so let's put it that way. So I would say that there was no problem of arriving at that decision, but I would say that I had-I feel that there are an evergrowing number of people who were formerly in the Communist Party, who were in at one time or another, or people who were friendly to it, who resort to the use of the fifth amendment when it is not a subject properly coming under the fifth amendment, because I feel in the first place I never did anything incriminating, I never did anything illegal, I never did anything to incriminate me. I resent people resting themselves on the fifth amendment just because hoodlums and gangsters and now many people whom I think individually are fine people, but in the position that they take I think that they are doing an injustice to the Constitution, they are vitiating the very purpose for which the fifth amendment was placed in the Constitution among the first 10 articles, or the Bill of Rights. I heard the previous witness, a gentleman whom I didn't know, Mr. Huebsch, read the fifth amendment. I hadn't heard it for a long time. I found a sardonic amusement in his use of the very last phrase of the article, which was that property shall not be taken except through due process of law. It had not been my impression of the Communist Party that they meant to pay for it.
Mr. VELDE. Let's have order.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your knowledge of the Communist Party has led you to the belief that the Communist Party did not respect the property rights of individuals in their political thinking, in their Marxian thought?
Mr. LYTTON. The Communist Party respected no rights of individuals. I certainly know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you advise the committee, please, the circumstances under which you became originally a member of the Communist Party? COMMUNIST 
Mr. LYTTrO. ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES Yes, I will be glad to do so. AREA 383 I might surprise the committee at this point, because naturally I have listened to a great deal of testimony, and it struck me that people joined the Communist Party and have been friendly to the party for a variety of reasons. I joined the Communist Party because I became interested in socialism, and I thought that socialism was a good thing at the time. I was told that the Communist Party represented scientific socialism, Marxian socialism and dialectic materialism, and I believed in socialism, and it seemed a very logical basis to move. The reason to me was simple.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you go back in your memory to the first occasion which prompted some action on your part toward- a mental impression which later developed into your getting into the Communist Party?
Mr. LYTTON. I think that the first time I even knew that there was what is called a movement, let alone the Communist Party, progressive movement, which is sometimes called Marxism and so forth, was when I was in attendance at the University of Virginia. The then editor of the Communist Daily Worker in New York, by name Clarence Hathaway, was an invited speaker at a forum at our university, where there always has been, and to my knowledge remains, free speech.
Mr. WALTER. By "our university" you mean the University of Virginia?
Mr. LYTTON. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is also my university.
Mr. FRAZIER. And I am glad to say it is mine. 
Mr. LYTTON. We didn't have much of a football team; I was around it, but we had a mighty fine university. In any event, Mr. Hathaway-he was then to me just Mr. Hathaway. I didn't know him. I didn't attend this particular forum, because I think I was possibly 19 or 20, and I was interested in football and boxing, occasionally in studies, and always in girls, and I had no political interests at the time. Hathaway came down and spoke, in any event, and a group of athletes-I was not among the group-a group of athletes went in to break up that meeting. They were pretty rugged boys, and I know it. I fought with them on the team and played around with them and so forth, and they were pretty rugged boys, and they went in and they broke up the Hathaway meeting, and they threw out Hathaway, and managed to get into fights with those that were in attendance. I heard about the incident. I wasn't anywhere around it, but I heard about it, and I was worried about it; I didn't like mob action, and I felt that this was an injustice. I felt that the boys had acted incorrectly, that they had discredited the university, and I spoke about that to many people. Let's put it this way: I have always been articulate to some extent, and I spoke about it to many people. I thought at the time and still think that you have got to do some thinking about the world you live in. I didn't even know there was such a thing at that time. I don't believe that I was aware of the existence of the Communist Party, as such, and I am not even sure that the persons who talked to me were Communists, but we talked about Marxism. 384 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA And they talked about socialism, and so forth. They handed me pamphlets and they talked and they talked and they talked. It began to condition me-let me place the year. The year was, I believe, 1933. It was very easy in 1933 to be conditioned in the direction of socialism. As a matter of fact, I might say the people I talked to in regard to my appearance here today, if as many people voted for Norman Thomas in 1932 as they assured me they did, I think he won, and the votes were stalled. In any event, this was 1933 or 1934. I don't recall the exact year. My feelings began then in the direction of the various pamphlets, books, and so forth that I was handed, and I thumbed through.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am interested to know just what part this incident played in your mental approach to this whole subject. That is, the incident where you felt an injustice had been done in denying the right or privilege of free speech.
Mr. LYrToN. I think a large part, Mr. Tavenner-let me put it this way: Life has many fortuitous and unfortuitous terms. If someone hears something, at the moment he is pretty impressionable, and it may have an effect on him. I wasn't interested in the political scene at the time. I would say it had a very appreciable effect. I would say this, sir: that, if such an incident occurred at any time, I think any decent person would think, "Wait a minute. That is mob action. I don't like it." And I still don't like it. I would draw utterly different conclusions from it today.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then proceed with your description of the circumstances under which you got actually into the Communist Party.
Mr LYTTON. When I left university training, I went to New York City. I was subsidized at the time by my parents, I had $15 a week to become a writer. It was sufficient at the moment. I had nothing to do except the hours that I devoted to writing. I recall roami, around and finding New York a fascinating city. I recall Columbus Circle, where many speeches were made at the time. I used to get involved in all-night sessions in cafeterias in the area where one could sit for five cents' worth of coffee and discuss things all night. I used to argue them out. I began to think that socialism was a good thing, and I believed what I was told: that it was inevitable. I still argued, however, I didn't like the connection between the Communist Party and the Soviet Union; though it was a period of great friendship to the Soviet Union,, I couldn't understand it. It was suggested to me by one of my new-found companions that I take a course at the Workers' School in New York. which is on 13th Street in Communist Party headquarters. I went down and enrolled and took two courses, as a matter of fact, at that time. While in attendance at the Workers' School, I had been perhaps & weeks there, and a very lovely Irishman by the name of Jim Casey was the managing editor of the Daily Worker at that time. I think he became pretty unhappy about it later. In any event, Jim Casey came in to address us. I was interested in newspaper work, and I questioned him closely. I don't recall his answers. I only know at a certain point he said, "Why aren't you in it?" (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point, 11: 15 a. m.)
Mr. LYrrow. I said, "I am not ready." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 385 He said. "The only way you can get ready is to come on in." Somebody handed me a card. I don't know who, just one of the students in the class whom I don't believe I saw more than one more time following that. Somebody handed me a card. Somebody else I was introduced to told me his name was Jimmy Higgins, which I genuinely believed at the time. I learned later that is a popular name in the party, to cover a certain hard worker that doesn't want much glory. Anyone that is a hard worker and not seeking glory is called a Jimmy Higgins. At the time, I believed this chap's name was Jimmy Higgins, and I called him Jimmy Higgins. I was given a card and I was unemployed and I paid 10 cents. It was the roughest dime I ever spent. I was assigned to what was then called a unit on the lower East Side of New York on Avenue B, an Irish-Italian-composed primarily of Irish and Italians in the area. The language disparity between them made for grave difficulties. I was assigned there because it was felt that, being from the middle class, the middle of the middle class. I needed to meet the workers. I went to a number of meetings down in this particular unit, and while I was in attendance there, there was held what was called the Seventh World Congress of the Communist Party. It was decided that, well, in fact, it had been held, the decisions were being made at the very time. The party was Americanizing, so to speak. It was decided to have what they call branches, big open clubs of 100, 150 people in them, to have a mass base. I was called in to 13th Street, which was Communist headquarters, and asked if I would organize, be the organizer for a branch. I did not accept the assignment and was subsequently assigned to a branch. I attended 1 meeting and then I think 2 more subsequently sometime later, and I left active membership in the Communist Party at that time. This whole period was perhaps-I don't know how many months, but it was a matter of months.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the Communist school, the Workers' School which you attended, can you tell us anything about the Communist Party membership of the teachers?
Mr. LYrTON. No, sir; I can't. The only one who made an impression upon me was Jim Casey.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand that you left the Communist Party at the time you have just mentioned, after membership of a matter of months?
Mr. LYTTON. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your reason for leaving the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. LYTTON. Well, I was vaguely disturbed. I can't say the leaving at that time was a turning of my back upon it. I was vaguely disturbed at the-what I saw. Nothing specific. Then two incidents occurred, and they made up my mind for me. One. I was approached and asked if I would be willing to take, I believe it was, some kind of railroad spike with a note wrapped around it, and if I would throw it through the window of the Italian Embassy, somewhere in New York. I don't even know where it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you tell us that again? 386 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. LYTTON. I was asked if I would do this. I wasn't asked by someone that I know as a member of the Communist Party. In fact, I don't even remember the chap who asked me. I don't know that he was a Communist, incidentally, and my testimony shall be truthful, and therefore I don't want to say that this happened as a result of the party, because I never knew. I only know someone came up to me and said, "Will you do this?" I said, "Why?" He said, "This is a time of Italy's invasion of Ethiopia, and this is a protest from the people of New York." I took the spike and looked at it. He had it right there. I unwrapped it. It was in brown wrapping paper of the type you wrap meat in, and in pen was written a message. The essence of it was that the people of New York were protesting against the Italian invasion, and it was just signed, "The People." I was embarrassed at the moment and I accepted the spike. I didn't like it. I was told that a taxicab would pick me up in the Eighties somewhere, and I was accompanied by a seaman who was not to my knowledge at the time a member of the Communist Party because I was trying to recruit. He never went in. In any event, he went along with me. I said, "No, I can't do this." He laughed. He thought it was a great escapade. He said, "What's the matter? Are you chicken?" I said, "You know I'm not. You know me better than that, but I just don't like it." He said, "Why?" "I just don't like doing things this way." And that was the end of the incident. I didn't do it.
Mr. DOYLE. What did you do with the spike?
Mr. LYTTON. I didn't swallow it, and I am darned if I remember.
Mr. WVALTER. That sounds sort of like blowing up power lines.
Mr. LTrroN. I will have to repeat on that that I don't know that it was a member of the Communist Party that approached me because it was just a chap that saw me at one of the large massive affairs that was held. It was a street thing, as I recall, and he didn't identify himself, but he said, "Would you like to do this?" He must have had some reason, but I don't know who he was, and that is the way such a thing would happen, naturally. I don't know that it was identified. In fairness there, in New York at that time there were probablyoh, there were several score of radical groups of all kinds and complexions, and they used to hassle it out. I don't know who proposed that I so do. I just know that I was disturbed by the incident.
Mr. TAVENNER. That disturbance had an effect on your decision to get out of the Communist Party?
Mr. LYTTON. That disturbance was crystallized for me some time later, not too long later, when a script that I had written-I had just become a professional writer-was supposed to go on. It was an adaptation of a Fanny Hurst short story. It was supposed to go on a series called The Greatest Story on the network. It was my first big break. I had my first TV show. The script was submitted. The producer liked it immensely. He said, "This is terrific, and we are going to give you lots more work." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 387 The director, however, rejected the script. He came to me and he said, "Look, you ought to know better. I know a little about you and you ought to know better than to write a script like this." I asked him what he meant. The subject matter was concerned with an immigrant family. He said, "This is chauvinistic." I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "You are using accents." I said, "For heaven's sake, don't they talk accents?" He said, "That's chauvinism." I said, "What right do you have to question me about it?" He said, "Well, I just won't be identified with a script like this. I won't put it on." Now, this was a warm and human story of Fanny Hurst. It was a lovely thing. My script was, I think, a decent and clean rendition of or adaptation of that story, and I was proud of it. He said, "Well, I'll tell you what. I have talked this over with V. J. Jerome." The name meant nothing to me at the moment. I learned subsequently who V. J. Jerome was. "He agreed with me that this is chauvinism," he said.
Mr. JACKSON. For the purpose of the record, would you identify V. J. Jerome?
Mr. LYTTON. To the best of my knowledge, I only met Mr. V. J. Jerome once, and to the best of my knowledge I was told that he was the cultural director of the Communist Party. By "cultural director" I don't mean social activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, would you continue?
Mr. SCHERER. He didn't finish. He just got to the point.
Mr. TAVENNER. I meant for him to continue.
Mr. LTTTON. Yes, sir. The script was not put on, and my resentment was keen. First, it was an opportunity for me as far as I was concerned. Secondly, I am proud of that script today. I was proud of it then. It was a good script. It was subsequently played, and it led to other radio work. It played well, and the very people whom he insisted were being lampooned thought it was a lovely, warm, and human thing. As a matter of fact, subsequently, I believe that in various periods I have followed, why, just this sort of thing was done when it suited the purposes or line, I should say. When the lines changed of the Communist Party, I have seen them do somewhat similar things. But at the time this was disapproved. This was verboten. I resented this very much. What I did was this: I simply left the Communist Party. I didn't say anything to anybody and I left. Now, when you leave the Communist Party it is much like coming out of a decompression chamber. It takes a while in order to go through the various emotional and intellectual phases that naturally take place. When I left the Communist Party at this time I was leaving. As far as I was concerned, I was leaving the Communist Party. I did not at that time feel that I was leaving what were my convictions insofar as socialism was concerned, because I believed in it then. I just didn't believe in the Communist Party any longer at that time. I was vaguely uneasy at the beginning, and then I became angry, and I left. 388 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Now, I had been in only a short time and it was a time of great foment for the Communist Party as well as the world. It was of the time of Ethiopia through to the beginning of the Spanish civil war. The Communist Party during that time had many changes of form. It was almost as hard to keep up with the changes of form as it was to keep up with the changes of line, and therefore, one did not always know who did and who did not belong, and so forth and so on, because you were moved about frequently. I didn't say anything to anybody. I just simply left and had nothing further to do with it. I stopped participation very quickly thereafter in any form of political activity, but first, it was the Communist Party. As I said, I said nothing to anybody about it. I just did it. I think that probably for several years a number of people thought that I was a member of the Communist Party, or at least friendly lo it. A number of people didn't think.so because when they asked me, they got a direct answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am very much interested in your statement with regard to the effort of V. J. Jerome to censor or review the project that you had worked on.
Mr. LYTTON. I wish I could help you, Mr. Tavenner, but the only thing that V. J. Jerome censored in the way of a project was an idea I had for a mobile theater to go around the country, and he thought it would take too much money. You see, I was told that V. J. Jerome agreed-when I happened to meet V. J. Jerome under different circumstances, it was in regard to a project for a mobile theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us about the occasion when you met him.
Mr. LYTrON. This was in 1936, I believe, and I had come out to Hollywood to raise money for a project that was dear to me. I wanted to send mobile theaters throughout the country. I was a theater director at the time, as well as writing scripts. I was put in contact with V. J. Jerome. I was told I had to clear my matter through him. This was just before the other incident of which I spoke. I met him in front of Schwab's drugstore in Laurel Canyon on Sunset Boulevard here in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you say that you were told you had to clear the matter through V. J. Jerome?
Mr. LYTTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us what the circumstances were of that.
Mr. WALTER. About when was this?
Mr. LYTTON. 1936.
Mr. WALTER. In the fall?
Mr. LYrrow. No, sir, it would be summer, I think. No, it was Easter. I recall because I was going to school again at the time, as well. I came out here during the Easter vacation.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you advise the committee who suggested that the matter should be cleared through V. J. Jerome?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir, I cannot advise you of that, because I honestly can't do that. I do not recall. I recall that I discussed the matter with the New Theater League in New York and that somebody there said, "Well, when you get to the coast, you better see V. J. Jerome." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 389 
Mr. TAVENNER. That suggestion came from New York, not from Los Angeles?
Mr. LTToN. That is correct. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. Will you proceed, please?
Mr. LTTrON. Well, I saw Mr. Jerome there. I was given a telephone number to call. I called it and he arranged to meet me in front of Schwab's drugstore. I described the project to him. He said it was very good. He said it was swell and if I wanted to raise the money for it, fine, but that any of their people out here, any of the contacts they had and so forth, they preferred that I left them alone, because there were worthier purposes for their money.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, that is an interesting point. Was that an indication to you that there were persons in Hollywood assisting V. J. Jerome in putting across the projects that he was interested in?
Mr. LYTroN. Well, that would be a conclusion on my part. It is a reasonable one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive any further information from V. J. Jerome or from any other source?
Mr. LYTTON. No, I did not.
Mr. TAVENNEE. As to just what projects V. J. Jerome was interested in putting across?
Mr. LTTON. No, sir, I did not. Specifically, in regard to my mobile theater project.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, have you any direct information as to what groups or individuals he wanted saved for his own projects instead of being utilized in the sponsorship of your project?
Mr. LYTToN. Mr. Jerome didn't tell me. He just told me that he wouldn't make any contacts for me out here, that was all, I was on mnV own.
Mr. SCHERER. May I ask a question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. SCHERER. Whom did you understand that Mr. Jerome was representing at the time he said to you that he didn't want these mobile units to beMr. LYTTON. Well, I presume that he was representing out here the Communist Party, but I wasn't put in contact directly in that regard. I knew his name, after all. It was not a name unknown to me. His name appeared often enough in the Daily Worker and the New Masses and so forth.
Mr. TAVENNER. You had met V. J. Jerome prior to that time?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir. I have only met him once.
Mr. TAVENNER. The occasion that you described to us when you met him in regard to a play in New York, I thought was a different occasion.
Mr. LYTTON. This was a different occasion, Mr. Tavenner, but I did not meet Mr. V. J. Jerome. I was told that V. J. Jerome agreed.
Mr. TAVENNER. So this is the only occasion on which you actually met him?
Mr. LTrTON. That is right, to the best of my recollection.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you stated that you were advised in New York to get in touch with V. J. Jerome here, and that you were given his telephone number.
Mr. LTrroN. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood that. 1747-5.-nt 1- 390 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. LYrrON. That is right; yes. 
Mr. TAVENNEE. Can you tell the committee who it was?
Mr. LrTTON. No, I don't recall who told me specifically. I know that I had discussed-I had written articles for the New Theater League magazine, New Theater. I sometimes went to the offices of the New Theater League, and somebody there, I discussed the project with somebody there, and somebody said, "Now look, here is how to do it. When you get out there, you get in touch with V. J. Jerome. If he likes it and clears it, you will be put in contact with money."
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Lytton, I would like to interrupt your testimony at just his moment to make one matter clear. It is a thing that has frequently occurred. We have subpenaed witnesses before and then found out there were two people by the same name, or very similar names.
Mr. LYTTON. I am glad you brought that up because I thought of a chap that bears virtually the same name as I bear.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think in fairness to both of youMr. LrTTON. Mr. Tavenner, last week I tried to find his name in the telephone book and I couldn't locate it. We decided perhaps he was out of town or something. I wanted to call him and tell him I was going to appear and perhaps he would like to join the audience and tell a few things. I don't know him. I have never met him. I have seen his name in trade papers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that Herbert Lytton?
Mr. LYTrro. That's right. He is on radio.
Mr. TAVENNER. He is a screenwriter also at the present time ?
Mr. LTTrroN. Is he? I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. He may be a radiowriter.
Mr. LTrroN. If he is, I hope that he is getting some use out of my old credit.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you are not in the same field of endeavor at this time.
Mr. LYTTroN. I don't know the man. I have seen his name in the trade papers. Naturally, I was struck with it, Herbert Lytton.
Mr. TAVENNER. There should be no excuse for anyone confusing the two of you because you are not in the screenwriting business at this time at all.
Mr. LYTTON. I am not in the screenwriting business or in any form of writing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Lytton, you have described your experience up until the time that you withdrew from the Communist Party, after an experience of a matter of months within the party. Can you fix the approximate date when you withdrew from the Communist Party in New York?
Mr. LTrrN. No, sir. That would be hard to do. It was about the period that I told you.
Mr. TAVENNER. That period was approximately when?
Mr. LTrroN. I would think about 1937, perhaps 1936. I would have to go back and look at historical events in order to place it, because to some extent that is how I would be able to fix it, but I don't recall. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 391 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I understand you correctly to say that it may have been a matter of a year and a half or more from that time until you became interested again in any way in the Communist Party?
Mr. LYTTON. It was much longer than that, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Suppose you tell us about that.
Mr. LTrroN. Well, I continued writing. I began to get assignments here and there, and began to build my career. I came out to Hollywood in 1940 with the objective of establishing myself as a screen writer. I was in the process of writing a play and I had the play pretty well set forth, I should say, and a writer now dead, who was not the grand Pooh-Bah of the Communist Party out here but who was their darling, one of their 2 or 3 darlings, but he is now deceased and I would rather not be asked his name.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will not ask you.
Mr. LrTroN. Though he was well known, he had been a very prominent writer during the 1920's. He had been considered a very promising, rather than prominent, novelist, and I told him about my play. He became quite excited about it and be said, "I think that I can get this thing on the boards of New York in 6 months." He then suggested a collaboration. I learned later that this, of course, was a common suggestion. At the time, I was a little taken back. It seems that he was an experienced writer. He had written many shows for pictures. He told me his many virtues, and he had them, incidentally, as a writer. At the particular period of his life he had everything but the willingness to work. He suggested we collaborate. He said he had a producer ready, and he said that the producer ready was a man who had subsidized at one particular time Jet Harris in New York and that Jet Harris would probably direct the play. After considerable time considering the matter, I think probably 24 hours, I decided that it might be a good thing and that he could teach me a great deal about the craft of playwriting, and that I would work with him. He invited me to move to his residence. (Representative Harold H. Velde reentered the hearing room at this point, 11: 40 a. m.) He invited me to move to his residence in Hollywood and to. work under very nice material circumstances. He produced the money necessary for the writing of the play and I was put on a deal where I was to receive $50 a week during the course of the writing for a specified period of time, a contract that was never completely lived up to, but that is neither here nor there at this moment. We worked on the play and we engaged in many arguments about its meaning, about its ideology. The play was simple and it was about people. He would argue with me that it just didn't have the political sharpness in it that it should have. I would argue in return that I considered myself a writer and I certainly wanted to continue to be a writer and I thought that that was an inhibitory process, "Let me write the play" being my argument, and "What must come out, let it come out." He would inhibit me and he would desire to see page after page, and then there would be these frantic arguments about the meaning of lines ahd the meaning of scenes and so forth, and webecame quite unhappy in the course of it. 392 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well now, are you describing a situation which was criticized possibly at a later period when Albert Maltz took the position at first that writing should not be-his art should not be used as a weapon, and then later reversed himself on the point?
Mr. LYTTON. Well, let's say that there is some relationship in problems here. I don't know that my position was that art shouldn't be used as a weapon. It was simply that I wanted to write the play as I felt it, and if it proved to be a weapon, fine, because it would be a weapon for whatever I believed in. I wasn't concerned with sitting down and writing-the term then used was "agit prop." I wanted to write what I wanted to write and let people find in it what they found in it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What you were writing or proposing to write did not meet with the approval ofMr. LTTrro. Of this writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of this writer who was looking at it from the Communist Party standpoint?
Mr. LrTToN. I don't know. He was a very, let's say a very circumspect man, and he had a reason to be, and he would always refer to the "movement" and never to the Communist Party. However, he suggested to me very strongly, he said, "I understand you were around the movement in New York 4 or 5 years ago. You ought to be back in." We didn't agree on that. Following this disagreement, we had many about the script itself. The play was called Big With Tomorrow at the time and there were disagreements with it. I had been asked by him to rejoin the movement, as he put it. I didn't. He told me that I was foolish, that if I wanted a career in Hollywood I would have to sharpen my thinking, that this was a particularly perilous time in world history; those arguments and so forth. Additionally, that I would have an opportunity, if I became a Communist, to meet and work with the best minds out here. This would sharpen me as a writer and be valuable to me. But I refused. About a week later I was told, "The honeymoon is over. The play will not be produced." That was the end of that particular episode. Now, I think, Mr. Tavenner, I will have to go back here. Your question was, How did I happen to once again rejoin for a time?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. And in stating your reasons and how it occurred, we are very much interested in all the efforts that were made to bring you into the party and any other experience you had in connection with the party.
Mr. LTTrrN. Very well. I worked in Hollywood-I got my-I started to earn, earned my living at the time doing what is called fact stories, factuals. Factuals are stories that appear in the factual, so-called factual magazines. I was given a press card by Country Press, and I did a large number of these stories to earn my living. At that time I was a 6-cent-a-word writer. That was a very high price, because it started at about a half a cent. It was a prolific period for me, and I was concerned, first, with these fact stories and from there-I joined a Radio Writers' Guild and got some small radio assignments. The Radio Writers' Guild sent me down to work for the Motion Picture Democratic Committee. They said there was a job open down there to do radio publicity, time slots and so forth. I had COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 393 had considerable experience in that previously. There was a job there at the then magnificent salary of $35 a week. I looked at it, however, as a chance to get in radio here. I went down and took the assignment. The Motion Picture Democratic Committee at that time had been the Democratic committee of the Communist Party in Hollywood. There was a split on the Finland question. At that time Helen Gahagan Douglas led a group of people out of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee because the people in control of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee were attacking our stand on Finland. I went to work for the Motion Picture Democratic Committee at that time and I lasted 4 or 5 weeks there. There was a campaign going on and I didn't understand the issues of the campaign, and I was disturbed by the fact that I was for Roosevelt and the committee wasn't. I said, "This is a job and it doesn't make any difference; I will try to listen to this and see what it is about." I was vaguely disturbed about it at the time and I became more and more uneasy. And the period that followed, I worked for a number-I got a reputation as knowing this particular kind of work in terms of getting agencies of one kind and another on the radio. There was no TV at the time. I worked for a number of agencies as a professional during their-I worked-I did work for Red Cross, for Navy Relief, for China War Relief, for Russian War Relief and for USO. I was paid in this period, and my salary kept going up as a paid publicity director or public-relations director, or I was brought in for a special assignment. During this period I didn't have-when I came to Russian War Relief, I should say, I was surprised to find that the membership of Russian War Relief was composed of non-Communist people, definitely who weren't for communism. It was composed of people against Hitler. There were many White Russians in it, who at that time were for the fatherland or the motherland, or whatever it is, the whole way. There were others that believed we should help an ally in the war. It looked to me like it was getting pretty respectable to speak up for Russia. By 1942 I was working in motion-picture studios. I had sold a script and began to work in motion-picture studios.
Mr. TAVNNER. At that point what screen credits did you have
Mr. LYTroN. You know, this is the most embarrassing question you have asked me yet. I only mean that some of them I would like to forget. My first picture was called "Tomorrow We Live." It was produced by Seymour Nebenzahl. My second picture, as I recall, was called "Spy Train," and it had to do with German spies aboard a train here attempting to commit sabotage. It was produced by King. My third was "Bowery to Broadway," an all-star, big musical, and that was at Universal where I worked right straight through, story, screenplay and so forth. I think I am in chronological order here. My next picture wasthe title escapes me now. Maybe I want to forget that picture. I 394 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AKLA didn't like the way it came out. The title escapes me, but I will recall it. It was-I think it was called "Follow Your Heart," and that was at RKO. But I don't think it was released under the title of "Follow Your Heart." It was released under another title. It was a story of a little war refugee who comes to America and loves it. I also did a picture on the story of Ledice, Czechoslovakia, the wiping out of that town, the monstrous wiping out of that village by the Nazis. This picture was considered a very fine job all around. I think that about covers-the rest of my screen credits were the typical credits for additional dialogue and a lot of typical picture doctoring.
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you to have you give us an idea of the screen credits you had. You were telling us about your interest in Russia at this particular time when you were writing scripts for the movies.
Mr. LYTTON. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed, please.
Mr. LYTTON. In 1944, during the summer of 1944, just before that, at the end of 1943 my family had learned officially of the death of my brother in action. He was a B-17 chauffeur in the Mediterranean, action over the Mediterranean. I was quite disturbed by this time. All my brothers were in action, and I wanted to be. I was quite disturbed at the time, I think, over the going of the war; and, like countless millions of Americans, I was praying for every possible victory that the Russians could have. They put up a fine defense at Stalingrad and had impressed the world. In 1944 I was working at RKO Studios, at the time that Henry Wallace was still Vice President of the United States and was up for renomination. He got 510 votes or something of the sort, but he didn't quite make it. I liked Wallace. I thought at that time that Henry Wallace was a fine kind of American and my kind of American. He didn't get the nomination. I lost $50 in a bet with another writer. I recall it very well. He didn't get the nomination, and this additionally bothered me. I said, "Well, look, I think the people wanted Wallace. That is the way I read it. The people wanted Wallace and they didn't get Wallace." At that time I was approached-wasn't approached-to tell it more correctly, I was seated in another writer's office. I was in the directors' building at RKO. I went in for a chat, as people do on the lot, into another writer's office, and we were talking about his script. It was a comedy. It had to do with women. By that I mean, more specifically, it had to do with the role of women in society, so to speak: should they or shouldn't they have careers, and so forth. He started, entered discussions about the meaning of this script. We had a long and interesting discussion about what it meant. He suddenly looked at me and he said, "Why aren't you one of us?" At the first moment I thought he meant the guild; for just about one moment. I said "I am." He said "No; you are not." I said "Oh," like Don. I said "I didn't have too happy an experience. I just don't see it is for me. I don't like it, really." COMMUTNBTACTIVITIt S IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 395 He asked me why, and I gave my reasons. He said, "Well now, look, Bart, times have changed. The party has changed. It isn't sectarian now. It has a big, broad base and you have these objections to it. Now, you are a reasonable man. Why don't you come and take a look and see if it is what you think it is." We argued that out for a while. He knew of my disturbances that I just mentioned, how I felt about them. He used them. And I said, "Well, I don't know. Maybe I will give it a try. I don't know." I didn't commit myself. About a week passed and he came back to me and he said, "Say, what is this about you?" I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "Well, I understand you were expelled." I said, "Expelled from what?" He said, "From the Communist Party." I said, "Not to my knowledge; no, of course, I wasn't." He said, "I understand there were a lot of charges against you and you were expelled back in New York in 1936." I said, "Why, that is a lot of poppycock. I walked away." He said, "Well, that is the story." And he said, "Brother, if I were you I would get that cleared up, because if you don't get that cleared up your name is mud in this town."
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was it that you were conferring with
Mr. LYTTON. George Beck.
Mr. WALTER. When was that?
Mr. LYTTON. 1944, I would say approximately August or September.
Mr. WALTER. I mean when he said "Your name is mud in this town." 
Mr. LYTTON. He didn't say it is. He said it would be.
Mr. WALTER. Unless you had this cleared up.
Mr. LYTTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Beck has appeared, as you know, as a witness before this committee.
Mr. LTrTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And he testified as to Communist Party membership and his subsequent withdrawal from the Communist Party.
Mr. WALTER. Was it the fact that at that time, unless you were active in the Communist Party, your opportunity to progress in your profession was hurt?
Mr. LYTTON. I am not prepared to answer by just saying it was or it wasn't a fact, Congressman, because my own experience, which will follow, was so short that I haven't knowledge as to whether it was a fact at that time. I am willing to testify as to what happened to me.
Mr. WALTER. But it was a fact at that time if you were a member of the Communist Party your opportunities were enhanced?
Mr. L TTON. I don't know if they were enhanced or they weren't enhanced. I do know that naturally; we will say if you belong to the right fraternity your fraternity brothers are going to give you a lift, and that you can just take for granted if you belong to the Elks and there are a lot of Elks in an industry, whatever it may be, you are going to have certain opportunities enhanced. 396 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA But I am not prepared to answer in terms of whether that was a fact at that time. I was told that it was a fact, but I have no evidence it was a fact nor, incidentally, did I give one hoot.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Counsel, I believe this would be an appropriate place to recess at this time. Before recessing, the Chair would like to make a statement for the benefit of the viewing audience. This morning I ordered that television be cut off during the testimony of Mr. Huebsch, who was represented by Mr. Esterman as counsel. This order was based on the ruling that the committee made last Monday, in answer to a motion that was submitted by Mr. Esterman, in which he demanded that all television equipment be removed and that as long as his witness, Mr. Huebsch, was on, the proceedings should not be televised. Now, there are some very serious legal problems involved in this hearing. The committee recognized that fact and without any idea in mind, I am sure, of depriving the public of tis important information, acceded to the witness' demands and request, and accordingly we necessarily had to ask the television cameras to desist from further televising the proceedings. We hope this will not happen again, but if it does, of course, I hope the public understands that it is because we are not only trying to be fair, entirely fair to the witnesses, but because of certain legal problems involved in this process. We will be in recess until 2 o'clock. (Thereupon, at 12 noon, the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at 2 p. m., same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (At the hour of 2:10 p. m., of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, Representatives Harold H. Velde (chairman), Donald L. Jackson, Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scherer, Francis E. Walter (appearance noted in transcript), Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, and James B. Frazier, Jr., being present.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order. Let the record show that a full quorum of the committee is present. The Chair wishes to announce that the hearing which we had this morning will be continued until tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock, due to the fact we have other witnesses we would like to hear at this time.
Mr. Counsel, do you have a witness to call?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Joe Springer.
Mr. VELDE. In the testimony you are about to give before this committee, do you solemnly swear you will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. SPRINGER. I do.
Mr. VELDE. Before any questions are asked of the witness, I should like to make a statement. The committee, during the course of its current investigation in California, has developed information that recently there was held at Crestline, Calif., a secret Communist Party school. According to the information available at this time, the school was held during the weekend of December 5 to 7, 1952, at a place called Camp Tenaya. The committee has ascertained this camp, which is closed during the winter months, is under the operation of Joe and Preva Springer. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 397 It has further been ascertained the Communist Party school held there was not an ordinary school, but one of great importance. This school was only for Communist Party functionaries and was held upon the direction of high Communist Party officials. Also in attendance at this school, in addition to the Springers, was Max Klansky and Walter Smith, both of whom have been identified to the committee as members of the Communist Party.
Mr. MOULDER. Will the Chair yield to me the opportunity to interrogate and cross-examine the witness on this subject?
Mr. VELDE. If the gentleman will wait until I finish my statement, I will be glad to yield to him first. Also it is of particular concern that this school was one of a series of new schools to be held by the Communist Party for the purpose of issuing directives to infiltrate shops in key industries, and in particular, defense establishments. It is alleged that this school was concluded with an announcement that a dictatorship of the proletariat would take over immediately after a revolution to secure power, and that it would be necessary for the party comrades to safeguard against the resurgence of capitalism. The announcement also pointed out it had taken the Soviet Union 27 years to accomplish this purpose. The witness Joe Springer has been called to assist the committee in verifying this information regarding the school at Crestline. Now I yield the floor to the gentleman from Missouri, Mr. Moulder.
Mr. JACKSON. Would the gentleman yield for a moment ?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. Does the witness object to both the video and the audio part of the television?
Mr. SPRINGER. I do.
Mr. JACKSON. The request is made that neither be used during the course of his testimony ?
Mr. SPRINGER. That is correct.
Mr. VELDE. The committee will be in recess for 5 minutes. (Short recess was taken.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will be in order.
Mr. SPRINGER. Mr. ChairmanMr. VELDE. Let the record show at this point that present are
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. Frazier, and the chairman, Mr. Velde. A quorum of the full committee.
Mr. SpringerMr. SPRINGER. Mr. Chairman, may I make a request? The light bothers me.
Mr. VELDE. As I understand it, I would like to get the picture clear, as far as television is concerned, what you do object to and what you don't object to. Do you object if the television cameras do not turn their lights toward you or photograph you during the course of the hearing? If they are allowed to continue and make photographs of other parts of the room and other people in the audience, including members of the committee, but they are ordered not to turn their lens directly toward you, do you have any objection to that?
Mr. SPRINGER. The lights would bother me. I understand that television, you have to have a certain amount of equipment; and, therefore, the lights would bother me; and, if you don't mind, I would like 398 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA the lights off. Therefore, I don't think you would be able to televise without lights.
Mr. CLARDY. Suppose the lights were turned away from the witness, and it would be some relief up here, too, from the heat, but if we turn them to the back, away from you, would you have any objection?
Mr. SPRINGER. Mr. Congressman, I prefer that the television would be off.
Mr. VELDE. By that, you mean both audio and video ?
Mr. SPRINGER. Correct.
Mr. VELDE. The Chair is constrained to grant the request of the witness, in view of the vote of the committee on this matter. And again I wish to say to the television audience that we regret that it is necessary to ask the television company to turn their cameras off at this point. The meeting will proceed. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Missouri, Mr. Moulder.
Mr. SPRINGER. Can we get those lights off, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. We will suspend until the lights are turned off.
Mr. MOULDER. After hearing the statement by the chairman, my particular interest was directed to your, case and the testimony you are about to give, especially because in my congressional district we have a number of summer camps. I understand you are the owner of a summer camp ?
Mr. SPRINGER. Mrs. Springer and myself are the owners of the camp.
Mr. MOULDER. Information has been carried to me on the subject which I am about to interrogate you on.
Mr. SCHERER. I can't hear you.
Mr. VELDE. Will the gentleman yield to identify the witness and counsel ? TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH SPRINGER, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, WILLIAM B. ESTERMAN
