Mr. LANG. I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel?
Mr. LANG. No, sir; I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are entitled to counsel, if at any time you desire to consult one. When and where were you born, Mr. Lang?
Mr. LANG. Excuse me, Mr. Tavenner. I would like to ask a question of the committee. Are these gentlemen behind me, are they in the camera? Because I want it clearly understood I am not represented by counsel, and I see there are some of those behind me.
Mr. JACKSON. It will be so noted.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Lang?
Mr. LANG. I was born in New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. When?
Mr. LANG. In 1915, November 30.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your educational training?
Mr. LANG. My traniing wa-Mr. T VENNER. That is, your formal training. 
Mr. LANG. I went through eighth grade and went into high school in New York City, DeWitt Clinton High School. I attended DeWitt Clinton for a year and came to California and continued my training in high school here through the 11th grade. IMr.TAVENNER. When did you come to California?
Mr. LANO. In 192,. I left high school in the 11th grade and went to work.
Mr. TAVENNEa. What is your occupation? Mir. LANG. I am a screen writer. 
Mr T.\\E:\1 xi. N How long have you been a screen writer?
Mr. LANI(. I have been a screen writer since 1941.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where have you practiced your profession?
Mr. LANG. I have practiced my profession in the various studios in Hollywood. starting at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that in 1941? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 337 
Mr. LANG. That is correct, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to 1941 how were you employed?
Mr. LANG. I had various positions. I worked in gas stations. I worked at a tango parlor down on Santa Monica pier. I shipped out to sea for a year. I worked in a dry-goods store. I was a cartoonist, starting in 1936, for Screen Gents, Inc., and continued as a cartoonist until 1941, when I became a writer in the motion-picture business and was given a junior writer's contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.
Mr. T.AViNNER. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. LANG. Yes; I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. LANG. No, sir; I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time were you affiliated with the Communist Party?
Mr. LANG. I joined the Communist Party sometime in the latter part of 1942 or early 1943, and I was associated with the party up to approximately the end of 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, the circumstances under which you joined the party, that is, the Communist Party?
Mr. LAX . Well, it was shortly after I became a writer that I realized that many things that had been left undone, so far as my education was concerned, needed filling in. I became very interested in philosophies, history, psychology, and naturally I became acquainted with many men in the profession I was then part of, and in particular with a man who is now deceased, a man by the name of Stephen Morgan. He was not a writer, but through many of the contacts I became part of, I met Mr. Morgan and he was very influential in setting up many of the kinds of things for me to read. He was exciting to listen to. He was very much of a student and I became so imbued with many of the things he talked about, and gradually we moved in toward tue philosophies of Marx and Engels, along with Schopenhauer and Hegel, and even so my interest was so great that he and his wife were instrumental in presenting to me the opportunity of becoming a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just how was this opportunity to become a member of the Communist Party presented to you?
Mr. LANG. After many weeks or months of conversations and talks, social gatherings, evenings at home, he realized that I was looking for something more than he could really give me. And he presented it to me in such a way, if I became a member of the Communist Party I could delve further into the beliefs and philosophies of the party and learn what it means and its historical background. On this basis it intrigued me greatly. At this time I was not aware of this revolutionary involvement. I knew to some extent it had involvements that were not in accord with many of the beliefs of this country, but it never occurred to me that by becoming a member of the Communist Party I could in any way do anything against the beliefs that I had as an American citizen, because I must say at this time I was aware that the Communist Party was a legal party, and it had an enormous influence on my coming to the realization I could 338 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA accept it, because I did not feel that I was abrogating any of the ideas that I originally had for my country. Parenthetically, I wish to add I found, particularly at this particular point, none of these problems had arisen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us about your first induction into the Communist Party?
Mr. LAXG. When Mr. Morgan presented to me-I asked him to give me some time to think about it, and about a week later I called him and said I had thought about it and I was agreeable. He then said he would contact the proper authorities within the party and have me cleared. Now, this was a very strange first induction; I had to be cleared. But I agreed to this. He said also that he would contact me or have someone contact me as to the next move. Three or four days later he did call me and said that I had been cleared and would I contact a woman by the name of Madelaine Ruthven.
Mr. CLARDY. Spell that.
Mr. LANG. I am not positive on the spelling, it is R-u-t-h-e-v-e-i-n, or a-v-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. R-u-t-h-v-e-n is the correct spelling.
Mr. LANG. He gave me her address, somewhere on Canon Drive, and I was to meet her sometime in the late afternoon the following day, and I did. Madelaine Ruthven greeted me and accepted me as a cleared person to be a member of the party. At that time she told me that I would be expected to pay a percentage of my income, a very small percentage. I think it was somewhere between 2 and 5-no; it wasn't 5-- or 3 percent, something of that order. Strangely, too, at this point she made it clear that the party was not necessarily a revolutionary party. This is an interesting point I wish to take up a little later. But she made it quite clear that the Communist Party was not a revolutionary party, and that anything I would hear to that effect was strictly an attempt upon the party by the Trotskyites, reactionaries, because the party was not interested in the overthrow of the Government.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to a particular group of the Communist Party, as a result of your contact with Madelaine Ruthven?
Mr. LANG. Yes, sir; I was. I was put in contact with an indoctrination group. This was not a definite group of the Communist Party, in terms of a fraction or a cell. It was formed only for the new people who would become members of the party, to be indoctrinated into the beginnings of Lenin, Stalin, Marx, Engels.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you this: We have had testimony in some instances indicating that study groups-Marxist study groupswere formed, composed of persons who sometimes were members of the party, and in other instances were not, and that sometimes these study groups were used as a recruiting ground for the Communist Party. I want to know, in this instance, whether this was a group of Communist Party members who were being indoctrinated-that is, persons already admitted to the party-or whether it was a study group of the character that I mentioned a moment ago. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 339 
Mr. LANG. In regard to the group that I joined, they were all members of the Communist Party, just as I was. Now, it is quite true that a number of groups were carried on in this city by members of the Communist Party, but not under the nominal idea that it was anything connected with communism. They were current-events groups, historical groups, reading groups, philosophy groups. A lot of people were brought in who were interested in these subjects, but communism in that case was never brought up until it was discovered that certain individuals within the group wished to go further. Then these people were recruited by the person in charge of the group that had been sent out by the Communists. Now, in regard to the group I am speaking of, the indoctrination group I was sent to, it was a Communist group and everyone in it had been accepted as Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who conducted the course of instruction or indoctrination ?
Mr. LANG. A man by the name of Michael Wilson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us a little more about this person and what his occupation was?
Mr. LANG. Michael Wilson was a screen writer. At that time he was not too well known, but had been a functionary within the party for some time. He was quite a bright man. He had exceptional background in the philosophies of the Communist Party. They had enormous confidence in his ability to teach this particular subject. He was quiet; he listened; he drew you in, because, after all, you were a potential worker. In the event you became proficient you would be sent out to do a good job for them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were your meetings held?
Mr. LANG. In this particular case they were held consistently at
Mr. Wilson's house.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you attend that indoctrination course?
Mr. LANG. I would say between 8 and 10 weeks.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many composed the members?
Mr. LANG. A very small group. I think, offhand, not over 8, 7, or 8 people.
Mr. TAVENNER. After the completion of this 10 weeks' course, were you transferred to another group ?
Mr. LANG. Yes; I was. I was then transferred to a definite cell that worked within the Hollywood section. We met in a home somewhere in Beverly Hills.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many of those who were in the studio group with you were transferred to that group?
Mr. LANG. I would say 4 or 5.
Mr. TAVENEIR. Can you recall their names?
Mr. LANG. Yes. A man by the name of Carl Foreman, his wife Estelle Foreman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, if you will, give further identifying information, if you can, relating to these persons. Carl Foreman, what was his occupation at the time?
Mr. LANG. He was a screen writer. His wife was a housewife. There was another man by the name of Sol Barzman.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you know what his occupation was ? 340 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. LANG. I understood at that time that he was a writer. A man by the name of Lou Solomon.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name, please?
Mr. LANG. S-o-l-o-m-o-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the first name ?
Mr. LANG. I believe it would be Louis, L-o-u-i-s. I can't recall anyone else from the original indoctrination group who joined this cell group except that we met at the house of another person who had not been in the indoctrination group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall whether other persons were transferred from the original indoctrination groups to other groups of the Communist Party?
Mr. LANG. Can I recall that?
Mr. TAVENNER. Recall who they were and if that occurred.
Mr. LANG. Frankly, I cannot, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. You were transferred to this new group. What type of people generally composed this new group to which you were assigned ?
Mr. LANG. There was another couple at whose home we met, by the name of Leonard, Charles Leonard. At this time he was attempting to become a writer. He had sold an original story, I believe, to Paramount, and on the strength of that broke away from whatever occupation he was involved in and tried to become a writer. His wife HelenMr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in this group?
Mr. LANG. Oh, for some many months. I would say 6, 8 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many composed this group ?
Mr. LANG. Well, let's see. Solomon, Barzman, the Leonards, that is 2, 4, the Foremans, 6, and myself, 7; 7 people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you then transferred to still a third group ?
Mr. LANG. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose or the reason for that?
Mr. LANG. Well, after a length of time within this group it was decided to separate the writers from any of the Hollywood cells and concentrate them in what was known as writers' cells, comprising nothing more than just writers, radio writers, anybody who wrote, mostly for pictures. This caused a large amount of people to be moved back and forth; geographically they were twisted around, and it took some many months to organize this.
Mr. TAVENNER. Whose decision was it that resulted in that transfer ?
Mr. LANG. Well, we understood that the decision came from New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. From New York?
Mr. LANG. It was brought to us here for slight discussion, but there was no question in the mind of anyone it wouldn't go through.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who brought the directive from New York
Mr. LANG. Well, it was first promulgated here by a man named John Howard Lawson, and there were a considerable number of meetings on this, which I did not attend. Lou Solomon came to our group after some meetings with Lawson and told us about it, and though it was put up to a vote, there was not much to do but accept it, because it had been more or less accepted by the hierarchy of the party. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 341 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe I understood you to say there were about seven in this group.
Mr. LANG. That is all, sir, I can recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you given the names of all of them?
Mr. LANG. I believe so. Solomon, Barzman, Leonard, Foreman. All I can recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, would you tell the committee, please, what was the primary purpose or function of this last group of the Communist Party to which you were assigned?
Mr. LANG. Well, it was understood that if the writers could be brought together as a group their common interests and problems would be more clearly enunciated, so that action could be taken immediately, rather than to go through channels. I didn't mean to say it obviated going through channels, but it just cut a number of them down. The party in Hollywood was very interested in creating a strong writers' front, so that the content of the motion pictures from their point of view could be approved, and that many of their ideals and their beliefs could be worked into the motion pictures. This is not to say only in the scripts of the motion pictures, but into the various organizations that were part and parcel of the entire motion-picture scene, which took in the guilds, which took in all organizations that had any part of making a motion picture.
Mr. CLARDY. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLARDY. Do I understand from what you have just said the real purpose was to further the Communist cause in any way you possibly could, in every direction?
Mr. LANG. That is quite correct.
Mr. CLARDY. In the script, in the production, and in the outside activities of the members in general, to promote the Communist cause?
Mr. LANG. That is right. Being a group of writers they felt a closer bond would be created among the writers who were Communists, so they could then carry on the work with other writers and that other writers would feel they would be coming into a group that understood their problems. It as a very neat little affair.
Mr. MOULDER. May I ask, again, what year or years did this activity or plan exist?
Mr. LANG. I would sav somewhere in 1944. I am not terribly correct on that date. 1944. 1945;: I think it was 1944.
Mr JACKSON. Mr. Lang, I don't know that counsel brought it outI don't think he did-what are your screen credits?
Mr. LANG. My screen credits-well, they are extensive, but I will try to remember some of them. The first picture that I made was a show called Yank on the Burma Road for MGM. And I made another one for MGM called Northwest Rangers.
Mr. MOULDER. Could he give the dates, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. LANG. That was-let's see, 1942, maybe the second one went into 1943. At Metro you work on a script a considerable length of time. You do many other duties between them, and a lot of things I did there never got on the screen, which happens to every writer. I left MGM after 3 years being under contract, and I sold an original to Paramount called Cheezit the Cops. And they made it. 31747-53-pt. 1--b 342 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA I did People are Funny. This is very interesting, to show the effect the party had already exerted upon me. While I was doing an innocuous a picture as People are FunnyMr. CLARDY. As what ?
Mr. LANG. As innocuous-Mr. CLARDY. I didn't hear the title.
Mr. L ixi; People are Funny, a situation arose in which a character in the pictureMr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little, please?
Mr. LANX. A situation arose in which my producer wished to create a situation in which a character in the picture was to blacken his face. It was perfectly all right, as far as he was concerned, but I immediately took umbrage. I said, "This is a terrible thing. You cannot do a thlnk hke that," when actually there was nothing about it, now that I think about it, that was derogatory to the Negroes-nothing was said, no act was performed-but yet such a profound influence was exerted on me I made a terrible situation out of it. I refused to lo it. It came to a point whether I would do it or get off the script. I said I would get off the script. It was brought then to the hierarchy of the studio, my executive producer for Paramount, and they accepted it. They wanted the script done, so they said, "All right. Just pass this, and he will write it in." I only mention this in passing to show in such a slight thing as this what influence is brought up by the party. Nobody told me to do this. I did it.
Mr. TA.VENER. Your indoctrination took.
Mr. LANG. It should. Mi. T.AVEXNER. You used a method of describing the activities of tins group, in which you said the influence of one writer upon another or the carrying on of work by one writer with another. What were you referring to there? Did you have any special thing in mind? What type of work was there an occasion to do between writers if they were employed separately on scripts?
Mr. LANG. Oh, well, a very interesting sidelight to the formation of the writers in Hollywood came along with the idea of what was called writers' clinics were created. This was a small group of top-echelon writers who were at the service of all members of the party to discuss scripts, originals, stories that were in work at the studios, and to improve, from their point of view, the material and the quality of the script.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you there. You speak of a writers' clinic.
Mr. LANG. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Was that a group composed exclusively of members of the Communist Party, or did it include also non-Communists of aiin sort?
Mr. LANG. It was only composed of those members of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was this service which you have described extended to non-Communists or limited solely to members of the Communist Party?
Mr. LA x. Well, it would be very difficult to extend it, I would think, because they would not want to reveal themselves, and it was more or less just concerned with the party. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 343 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I interrupted you. I am not sure that you have fully described the activities of that group.
Mr. LANG. Well, the interesting aspect of this particular group which occurs to me, and they, too, thought so much of it, was intended to create an enormous dependence upon the party by the writers, because if a writer felt that he was being helped by functionaries, it was quite difficult to separate yourself from the party. You would be more prone to do many things that they asked you to do in writing. in the writing field. And they infused you with.a sense of loyalty to the party. And, as I noticed a few moments ago, the effect of this certainly rubbed off on me, even though it was not a matter of my going to the writers' clinic. Probably what I did was not so terrible, but let's assume that something more important was asked of somebody, you were caught up in a situation like this: Yes, you could very easily say, "I refuse to put it in the script." Because you are a writer you could very easily not put it m, or say that they cut it out, say that the studio took it out or the producer took it out.
Mr. T.AENNER. Speak a little louder, please.
Mr. LANG. I say you could very easily leave it in the script and then take it out, and later on when the picture was released you could have said, "They took it out." But this was not the case, because in many instances men were carried along with this idea that whatever the group would discuss and argue for, as long as it didn't destroy or disturb the story, it was a sidelight, it was left m.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the leaders of this clinical group that you have spoken of?
Mr. LANG. Men such as Dalton Trumbo, John Howard Lawson, Lester Cole, Paul .Jarrico, Dick Collins, Paul Trabusis.
Mr. TIVENNER. Well, is it correct to say that another result of such activity would be to keep the Communist writers employed by improving their scripts and improving their product?
Mr. LANG. Well, that was certain part and parcel of the whole thing, because as long as a man was employed he was to pay dues.
Mr. T.AENNER. And that was also an inducement for a person to be a member of the Communist Party, to receive such assistance from such persons. Mi. LANG. That is correct.
Mr. CLARDT. Part of the sales talk, in other words; was it?
Mr. LANC. Well, it was a pretty good sales talk.
Mr. CLARDY. It worked on you.
Mr. LAx,;. You see, they were in a very good position at this particular time to do this, because, when the war was on, the Soviet Union was our ally. It was not too difficult to incorporate stuff in the script that was agreeable to many men in the industry that were naive enough to accept. I think it would be very difficult, I think personally it would be impossible. I think the motion-picture industry, I think the heads of it, the producers of it are really far more aware than ever before of the ideas.
Mr. WALTER. More than that, aren't the people who would ordinarily be persuaded to become parties to this movement aware of what it actually means
Mr. LANG. Excuse me, sir. I didn't catch the entire question. 344 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. WALTER. I say, more than the reasons you have given, aren't those people who would be attracted to the Communist Party now aware of what it actually means, and for that reason would not become parties to the movement?
Mr. LANG. Oh, definitely. 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask one ?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Moulder. 
Mr. MoULDER. During the time you were a member of the Communist Party, or at any time during your career, were you ever employed to slant your screen writing to aid in the Communist propaganda at all?
Mr. LAo. No, sir; I was never, because, among other things, 1 never worked on pictures that carried that particular type of a situation, and I cannot say for sure that I know of any particular instance in which it was done. It was done in a subtle manner. You see, it went deeper than just coming out and saying this is right and this is wrong. The entire idea of the Communist Party is revolution, and any subject matter which broached on minorities or any circumstance that in our country had tendencies of being maltreated, ill treated, so that they would say about certain things by inference, they felt this was nothing; Ihis was good.
Mr. WALTER. Were they successful in their efforts?
Mr. LANG. If you can make a people more discontented by showing them themselves portrayed on a screen in a better light, they felt that this was doing a good job.
Mr. MOULDER. You have to some extent given us detailed information concerning the objectives of the Communist Party leaders in forming cells among screen writers and other professionals in the entertainment field. In your opinion, were they ever successful in their plans along that line, successful to an effective extent?
Mr. LANG. Yes; to an extent they were. They were very effective, because they proselytized it very well. They got people, writers who would be more sympathetic, and though it might have been right for the moment, their intent was wrong.
Mr. MOULDER. Can you give us any specific instance of any picture or any play or other entertainment that in your opinion you would designate as having effective Communist propaganda?
Mr. LANG. No, sir, I cannot. I cannot, because it was spread over so thin an area or, rather, such a wide area and was spread so thinly that it would have been not only the field of minority problems, but the field of housing and the field of our interest in gove inment.
Mr. MOULDER. That would not necessarily be a Communist philosophy or belief. That might be of interest to all American citizens.
Mr. LANG. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Lang, I made a couple of notes trying to catch your exact language as you talked on a couple of points. I want to ask you if you feel you can add anything to what you have already said, to explain. I notice you, in your reference to Madelaine Ruthven, said she made it quite clear the Communist Party was a revolutionary party, was not interested in the overthrow of government. Now then, you said also, "At this time I was not aware of its revolutionary purpose." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 345 Now, I am wondering why did you ever become aware of any revolutionary purpose of the Communist Party, what sort of a revolution, what kind of a revolutionary party, what sort of a revolution, when is it to come, and under what conditions.
Mr. L IG. The concept of the Communist Party, it is an international organization. Let's not fool ourselves about this.
Mr. DOYLE. About what? AMr. LANG. It is an international organization, the Commnnist Party. If you, which I did many years too late, go back into the history of the war and how they changed their point of view so as to gain a foothold wherever they could and wherever they felt a foothold would be hard to gain-that knew that it is difficult to arouse people in a country like the United States into revolutionary tactics, some man who has been born and raised here, to overthrow the Government that he has been given the opportunity to improve under. So, they changed the face that they originally started out with. If you will read a man by the name of Dimitrov, he said that the Communist Party will always be a revolutionary party, the concept of the party, it came out of revolution and the end of it is to be only the overthrow of the capitalist and all that the capitalist stands for. It must be a party of the proletariat, and we must gain the peasants and workers. But this was not Russia. This was a country that was rich and powerful, and to come into this country and to bring about an organization such as the Communist Party wasn't that easy, because there weren't that many people who were suffering, and to get men like me and many like me, they had to make it more palatable, they had to make it more esoteric, more intellectual, and they did a darned good job.
Mr. DOYLE. AMr. Chairman, I note it is adjournment time. May I be permitted to ask a couple of questions of this witness right after lunch?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. The witness will be back after lunch. Is this a good place to break, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir; this is a good point. llr. JACKSON. The committee has received a great number of telegrams and communications from the people of Los Angeles expressing their appreciation for the hearings, and I might say that there is up to this point no one opposed to the activities of the committee. The committee is gratified by this public interest and response. The committee will stand in recess until 1: 45 p. m. this afternoon. (Thereupon, at 12:02 p. in., the hearing was recessed to reconvene at 1: 45 p. m. same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (At the hour of 1: 58 p. m., of the same day. the proceedings were resumed, Representatives Harold H. Velde (chairman), Donald L. Jackson (appearance noted in transcript), Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scherer, Francis E. Walter, Cl de Doyle, and James B. Frazier. Jr., being present.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order. Let the record show at this point that Mr. Clardv. Mr. Scherer, Mr. Walter, Mr. Doyle. AMr. Frazier, and the chairman, Mr. Velde, are present, a quorum of the full committee. Proceed, Mr. Counsel. 346 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA TESTIMONY OF DAVID A. LANG-Resumed
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you, counsel. You are always very thoughtful, as well as capable. (Representative Donald L. Jackson entered the hearing room at this point, 2 p. m.)
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Lang, I think before the noon recess I asked you the question bearing on the subject of your statements about the revolutionary intent and purpose of the American Communist Party. To refresh your memory, just two brief statements by you. "At this time I was not aware of its revolutionary purpose," referring to the American Communist Party. And, secondly, referring to Madelame Ruthven, "She made it quite clear the Communist Party was not a revolutionary party, not interested in the overthrow of the Government.' Then you also stated, "I later found out differently." You also stated, "I did not feel I was abrogating any of my loyalty to my country when I joined the Communist Party." Now, on the subject of revolutionary intent and purpose of the American Communist Party, what sort of revolution were they advocating when you were a member of the Communist Party ? Was there any force or violence directly or indirectly involved?
Mr. LAXo. Not to my knowledge. There was no force and violence ever shown around me. When I mentioned earlier that the intent of the Communist Party was revolutionary and for revolution, I mean that the party was formed for the specific purpose of revolution. They reiterate this in all their statements. But at one time, as I said, when they realized they wished to infiltrate into the United States and cover many people who might be against this exception, they had to change the general form of the party. And they made it quite clear at this time they were separating themselves from any international organization and becoming nothing more than the American Communist Party.
Mr. DorLE. About what year was that, please ?
Mr. LANG. This was much earlier than I was ever in. I would say back in the middle 1930's.
Mr. DOYLE. All right. Now, what processes then were to be engaged and used, during the time you were in the party and learned anything about it, to project their revolutionary purpose and intent?
Mr. LANG. Only intellectually, at least so far as I was concerned. People that I associated with never discussed any overt act, such as overthrowing the Government, because the concept was that by the very condition of our society it would destroy itself, and that we could only help it further by clarifying the issues that were destroying this society within, so that we would be ready-we would be the vanguard-when the time came. There was no time limit put to this, but the intention was that they had to create the nucleus of men and women who could lead the millions of people who would revolt when our society began to disintegrate. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 347 
Mr. DOYLE. My other question which I indicated was that you said "I did not feel I was abrogating any of my loyalty to my country at that time."
Mr. LANG. That is correct.
Mr. DOYLn. Did you ever change your opinion on that? I mean when, if ever, did you come to feel you were abrogating?
Mr. LANG. I changed my opinion when I realized the intention behind the act, when I realized that I was being used to lead during a revolt. Revolt I considered so far afield that it never entered my mind. But when I began to see that I was being taught the things that the Communist Party advocated, that in a simple way I was being used through propaganda to incite, to make those people malcontent, instead of working within the confines of our law and our courts, that we were just using the material that the party taught us to make people more uneasy, more revolutionary.
Mr. DOYLE. Do I understand then that while you were in the Communist Party part of its program was the teaching of you, for instance, training of you, and you awoke to the fact they were training you to use you as the leader along with the other leaders, even at that time, to incite strife and stresses and unhappy situations, economically and socially in our country?
Mr. LANG. Yes; that is right.
Mr. Doryr. To stir up all the strife they could between races and minorities and majorities?
Mr. LANG. When I found this out, this is when I broke away. I felt very strong while in the party, that I would be in the position to understand a lot of things that happened, and to help these things happen within the elements of our law and our courts, but when I began to see that the party looked askance at our courts and made fun of everything we stood for and took every advantage of our mistakesand Lord knows we make plenty of them-and there is nothing wrong with making mistakes-to take advantage of a mistake, to set people against one another or set people against the country, that that was a part of this I couldn't stand for, so any knowledge they could impart to me by becoming a member of the party would have been of no value. I was against it. And, educationally, I felt I could learn far more by getting out of it. without having the influence of these people about me.
Mr. DoYiE. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Lang, who was chairman or who acted as chairman of this special group of writers to which you were assigned?
Mr. LANG. I remember a man by the name of Joe Solomon.
Mr. TAVENNER. Which group is that that you are referring to?
Mr. LAN. I am now referring to the group that I was associated with after the indoctrination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Now, you have testified about being assigned to another group composed chiefly of writers, as I understood.
Mr. LANG. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. And that was the aroup as to which you testified there was a writers' clinic established
Mr. LANG. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the chairman or leader of that group, or was there more than one ?
Mr. LANG. There were many more than one. 348 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. How is that?
Mr. LANG. Many more than one. The chairman rotated from meeting to meeting, and they had a list of maybe 8 or 10 or 15 men to take over the chairmanship. They usually selected men who were articulate, who were of the higher bracket, who were more in the function of the party, to that they would be able to enunciate the directives more clearly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall who acted in that capacity from time to time ?
Mr. LANG. Ye ; I can. A man by the name of Guy Endore, a man by the name of Sam Ornitz; Robert Rossen, I believe. Adrian Scott, Alvah Bessie, Dalton Trumbo, Ring Lardner, Jr.. Paul Jarrico, Paul Curtiss, Dick Collins, Gordon Kahn, John Howard Lawson, Allen Boretz, John Bright, Harold Buchman, Arnaud D'Usseau, Edward Eliscu, Lester Cole, Dan James. These are the men that I remember distinctly being chairman of the group that I was associated with.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who was the financial secretary of the group? lvlr. LANG. To the best of my knowledge I can only remember one man, and his name was Cy Endfield.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you occupy any position in that cell or group at any time ?
Mr. LANG. For a very short period of time I acted as literature chairman, which consisted of nothing more or less than picking up pamphlets and reading material that would be part and parcel of the subject matter that would be taken up at the previous meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you obtain the Communist Party literature and books
Mr. LANG. I obtained them at a place called the Lincoln Bookstore on Highland Avenue just above Hollywood Boulevard.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know anything regarding the formation of that bookstore or the establishment of it ?
Mr. LANG( Yes. At one time it was brought up that it was quite necessary that the Hollywood section be represented by a bookstore so that it would facilitate receiving material quickly, because there had been only one bookstore and that was downtown, but it was a matter of money, and we were asked to give money for the bookstore, with the idea that it would be repaid as soon as the bookstore was on a financial basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little, please? Well, do you recall how much money was raised by your CQmmunist Party unit to establish this bookstore or assist in it ?
Mr. LANG. I never found out how much money was raised. I assume that it was considerable, because they had to pay cash for everything and they did have a considerable number of books, and they had rent to pay in a locality that I am sure was not cheap.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do 3 ou know by whom this bookstore was operated?
Mr. LANG. It was a man by the name of Milton Luboumski.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. LANG. Only by inference, because I assumed that no man would be in charge of any bookstore working for the party who was not a member of the party. COMMUNIhT ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 641 
Mr. JACKSO-. Is that bookstore still in operation?
Mr. LANG. No, sir; it is not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not the bookstore changed its name at a later date'
Mr. LANG. I do not. IMr.TAVENNER. Will iou tell the committee in whose homes this group met while you were a member of it ?
Mr. LAXG. I can recall distinctly that we met in the home of a man named Paul Trivers, Henry Meyers, Hugo Butler, Lester Cole, Maurice Raph, R-a-p-h,' Henry Blankfort, Waldo Salt, and Ring Lardner, Jr.
Mr. JACKSON. Are yon sure of the spelling of Rapf's name ? I think you said R-a-p-h. Is it R-a-p-f .
Mr. LANG. I am sorry. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall while you were a member of that group that it was addressed by functionaries of the Communist Party from a higher level ?
Mr. LANG. I can recall a few people who attended the meetings who had been sent out here as a spearhead on different subjects, and to my knowledge a man by the name of Joseph North, N-o-r-t-h, who was editor of the New Ma->es. addressed us at one time; a woman by the name of Ella Winter: another women by the name of Oleta O'Connor Yates. That is spelled 0-1-e-t-a O'Connor Y-a-t-e-s And a man named William Schneiderman; that is spelled S-c-h-n-e--e-d-e-r-m-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over how long a period was it that these people appeared before your group
Mr. LANG. Well, they would appear periodically. It was not a meeting that was set; it depended upon the issue at the moment.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you a member of this group and attended its meetings ?
Mr. LANO. I would say I was aimember of this group over a period years. The latter year that I continued of a year and a half. membership in the party I attended very few meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are the i ears when you attended the meetings of this group ?
Mr. LANG. '45-'44 and '45.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall aproximately how many persons were members of this group
Mr. LANG I can recall quite a number. At the closed meetings I met men by the name of, such as GeorgeMr. TAVENER. Closed meetings of what'
Mr. LANG. Communist meetings. These were definitely Communist meetings. No one was allowed at these meetings unless they were members of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were they members of the group or cell to which you belonged
Mr. LANG. That's correct
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. 
Mr. LANG. George Bassmal, B-a-s-s-m-a-n; Nick Bela. B-e-l-a; Edward Biberman. B-i-b-e-r-m-a-n; Henry Blankfort, Laurie Blankfort, William Blowitz, Hugo Butler, Howard Dimsdale, Morton Grant, Edward Huebsch. Lester Koenig, Millard Lampell, Pauline 1 Spelling corrected by wltnes' to R-a-p-f 350 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Lagerfin, Isobel Lennart, Al Levitt, Arnold Manoff, M-a-n-o-f-f; Mortimer Offner, O-f-f--e-r; W. L. River, Bob Robert, Marguerite Roberts, John Stanford, Wilma Shore, George Sklar, S-k-l-a-r; Bess Taffel, Connie Lee Bennett, Max Benoff, B-e-n-o-f-f; Henrietta Martin, Seymour Bennett, Eunice Mindlin, Val Burton.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is that name?
Mr. LANG. Val Burton, Julian Zimet, Frank Tarloff, Louise Rousseau, Maurice Clark, Dorothy Comingore.
Mr. TAVENER. Do you recall a person by the name of George Willner?
Mr. LANG. I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of that group ?
Mr. LANG. No, sir; I do not remember him to be a member of that group.
Mr. TAVENXER. John Wexley, do you recall him?
Mr. LANG. John Wexley, correct; W-e-x-l-e-y, John Wexley.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of that same group of the Communist Party with you?
Mr. LANG. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNEE. And did he attend closed Communist Party meetings?
Mr. LANG. He did.
Mr. TAVENNER. I do not know whether you have mentioned the name of Michael Uris.
Mr. LANG. Michael Uris was a member of that group. I forgot his name. It is so difficult to remember some of these names, but I am sure that he was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall a person by the name of Victor Shapiro?
Mr. LANG. Yes, sir; I do. He was a member of that group. He was not a writer; he was a publicist.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you know he was a member of that group?
Mr. LANG. He attended the meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Closed Communist Party meetings?
Mr. LANG. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall a person by the name of Elliott Grennard?
Mr. LANG. Grennard. that's right.
Mr. TAvENNER. Do you know how to spell the name
Mr. LANG. G-r-e-n-n-a-r-d, I think.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Was that person known to you to be a member of this same group of the Communist Party ?
Mr. LANG. That is correct; he was a member of the Communist Party in this group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall a person by the name of Art B-i-r-nk-a-r-n-t?
Mr. LANG. Yes, sir; I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name, please?
Mr. LANG. B-i-r-n-k-a-r-n-t.
Mr. TAVENNER. What knowledge did you have of his activity, if any, in the Communist Party?
Mr. LANG. To my knowledge Arthur Birnkarnt was not a writer, but he was assistant to a man named Buchman.
Mr. TAVENNER. What Buchman? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 351 
Mr. LANG. I know the name, but I cannot recall it at the moment. Harold Buchman's brother.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occupationMr. LANG. Sidney Buchman. Sidney Buchman was a producer.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your knowledge of his Communist Party activities, if any ? That is, of the person of Art Birnkarnt?
Mr. LANG. I am not aware of what he actually did. I just know that he was an assistant to Mr. Buchman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party group of which you were a member?
Mr. LANG. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you know that?
Mr. LANG. Because he was a member, he attended too many meetings not to have been a member.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you told us how long you remained in the Communist Party ?
Mr. LANG. I remained in the party officially until the latter part of 1946. It was sometime, though, before 1946 that I broke away, at least in the physical sense, because I was soon learning that this was not my dish of tea. But, unfortunately, it had left some mark, some associations, some feelings, and they imbued you with a false sense of loyalty that carries you along considerably, and it takes time to break away, just like it takes time to join it.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did your breaking away begin and when do you conclude that it was final, if it was final?
Mr. LANG. It was definitely final at the latter part of 1946, when I realized that I could no longer maintain an association with people that I had no sympathy for, when I learned that I did not have to fear them, not in any physical sense, but in a social sense; that they were so completely different in their feelings than I was that it made no difference whether they continued to be my friends or not, and I had been so long from the party, and they had so many times asked me why, and I had made all sorts of excuses, and the time came when they asked me again, and this time I said, "Look, I don't want to stay in it; I want out, I don't like anything you are doing; I don't agree with any of your activities; I want no more association with you; please don't bother me any more." That was the end of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since that time have you affiliated with the Communist Party or supported any of its activities, to your knowledge?
Mr. LANG. TO my knowledge I have supported not one activity. My associations with the members of the Communist Party broke off very suddenly after this. I was not very socially adjusted to many of the people, anyway, and I returned to friends that I had continued with through the years that had no connection with the party in any way.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there anything of a concrete character that you can point to to indicate that your break with the Communist Party has been final and complete ?
Mr. LANG. Yes. Let me go back on that question just before this, when you say I did not associate with any members of the Communist Party once I became a non-Communist. 352 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA I did associate with two people that I was responsible in bringing into the party. Their names are Bargeman-Bertha Bargeman-and a man named Marvin Bargeman. We disagreed violently on every issue, but the years of friendship that had gone on before either of us had ever joined laid some cement for the years that proceeded, and when I finally made up my mind to break forever and to reveal what I know of the party, because I know of its function now, I even went so far as to contact both of these people, and I told them, I said, "I know this is the end of whatever friendship we have, but I am going to name you, because I think you are wrong; it is time that you got off the dime and made a clean breast of this thing. I do not agree with any of the things that you stand for, and I can no longer protect you and no longer will protect you. This is your baby and you have got to take the brunt of it like I am going to take it, because I know that I am right." To show the effect that this took, a day later Mrs. Bargeman came to my wife, and she said, "How can you be married to a man such as this, to have done such a deed, or is going to do such a deed ?"
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little
Mr. LANG. "How can you be married to a man such as this, who is doing what he is doing, and actually, you know, David is going to be against the wall in 10 years; they are going to shoot him." So that was great. That gave me the whole key. I realized now that I was holding onto something that was a miasma that had no meaning, because if people carry their emotions to such degree as this, then you are dealing with people that are not capable of working in a period of conflict or upheaval, when chaos is the only thing that is going to give them impetus to action, and this scored the whole issue very beautifully for me.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Lang, first of all, I should say how much we appreciate your cooperation in coming before the committee, giving the committee, the Congress, and the American people, the benefit of your knowledge of the operations of the Communist Party. I might say if you go before a wall yon will have a lot of company. Are von a member of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr LAXG. I am, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you retain your membership over the period of yearsMr. LANG. I have.
Mr. JACKSON (continuing). That you were in the Communist Party ?
Mr. LANG. I did.
Mr. JACKSON. How many members of the Screen Writers' Guild, during the period of your membership in the Communist Party, did you know to be members of the Communist Partvy
Mr. LANG. Every name that I have given as writers involved in the functions of the Communist Party as a part of the group were members of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. JACKSON Were you a member of the so-called progressive caucus of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. LANG. My name was on it. I was never a member of it. I never participated in any of their activities.
Mr. JACKSWx. What was the function of the caucus? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 353 
Mr. LANG. The caucus was formed to bring issues that the party felt were important for the welfare of the Hollywood writer, never taking into consideration the fact this was an uphill fight for the writer to gain recognition, to gain a minimum wage, and that each thing must be taken in its course and a door must be closed before another door is opened. But they would make such issues that would not aline the guild as a solid functioning group. They would bring up all side issues, whatever came to their mind, to give the feeling that we were being led wrong, we were being made dupes of by the producers, and that we must be fighting harder, and this only caused more uncertainty, more split, and they kept saying all the time, "We want unity," and the more they talked about unity the wider the chasm grew. They didn't function in a good way, that I ever saw.
Mr. JACiKSOx How extensive was the influence of the caucus in the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. La Nx I never found them to be very extensive, and to that extent they are so completely in the minority today that they are not even around. They have been in disrepute for some time, I would say. They cut their own throats.
Mr. JAcKsoN. You say they are not around. Do they no longer hold membership in the guild or attend meetings of the guild?
Mr. LAu. They are not active. They are not vociferous. They have been squelched so beautifully.
Mr. JACKSON. It was at all times a minority membership in the guild? They were the Communists in the guild?
Mr. LAN'u I would say so. I would say there was a minority membership in the Communist Party in the Hollywood scene, so far as the writers are concerned. They tried very diligently to infiltrate into the picture business. They didn't get very far. Whatever you might say, the picture business has always been on the offensive. They have always fought anything that was Communist. I have never found a producer, never found an actor associated with anybody in the picture business who tried to sell me a bill of goods. I am talking about the men who are the heads, that decide and make the movies. A writer could very easily put thing; in a script. It i. not so easy to get it past the men who know what it is all about.
Mr. JACK'SON. Were the members of the caucus able to put their members on the board of directors of the Screen Writers' Guild or in any other capacity?
Mr. LANG. They got on the Screen Writers' Guild because they were pretty clear on issues for the moment.
Mr. JACKSON. They knew where they were going?
Mr. LANO(.They knew where they were going, and they made it strong and to the point, and so many honest, decent guys in the guild who were not active that could not enunciate these ideas, they felt, "Here is leadership." This was the principle behind the Hollywood Communist group leadership, get in, work from within.
Mr. JAOKSON. Do you feel that you knew most of the members of the Communist Party in the Screen Writers' Guild? Is there any reason to believe there are others of whom you have no knowledge?
Mr LANo. There are reasons to believe there are a few left I didn't meet. As I say, this group I was associated with was one of 3 or 4. 354 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA They were geographically set up so that most men and women in the valley would be closer to their group than those in Hollywood and Beverly Hills, so you didn't meet them all. There were many times, of course, when writers would come into your group, having moved, so on and so forth.
Mr. JACKSON. Again may I express my thanks to you for your cooperation before the committee this afternoon.
Mr. LANG. Thank you.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Clardy. 
Mr. CLARDY. You have named a considerable number who you said were members of the party and active in pictures in one fashion or another. How many of those are still active in pictures today ?
Mr. LANG. There has been nobody named that has been an unfriendly witness or that has stood on the fifth amendment that works in a motion-picture studio today, to my knowledge.
Mr. CLARDY. So that you have named everybody removed from the scene, in one fashion or another?
Mr. LANG. I believe they have been.
Mr. CLARDY. In summing up your testimony, as a whole, as I gather it, and regardless of the facts you have just now stated, those have been moved out again, which you say, based on your experience, that that medium of public information is particularly vulnerable and you have to be on guard continuously to prevent the thing happening again?
Mr. LANG. I would go further than that. You have to be on guard on every issue and every line.
Mr. CLARDY. The Commies work 24 hours a day?
Mr. LANG. They work all the time.
Mr. CLARDY. If we are going to succeed in keeping it squelched, we will have to stay on the job the same length of time.
Mr. LANG. That is my opinion.
Mr. CLARDY. Thank you.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I have no questions.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Walter?
Mr. WALTER. I have no questions.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. NO more questions.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Frazier
Mr. FRAZIER. Mr. Lang, do you know from your own experience that the Communist Party today advocates the overthrow of the United States Government?
Mr. LANG. No, sir; I do not. All I can say is that the whole basis of communism is international. When people begin to realize this they will realize that whatever guise the party takes, it is all the same thing. It doesn't make any difference. The final answer to their objective is for the overthrow of any government that is antipathetic to the Soviet Union.
Mr. FRAZIER. Does the Communist Party in the United States take its orders from the Communist Party in Russia ?
Mr. LANG. This is rather difficult to answer, because there is nothing definite that can be pointed to. All I can say is that in 1935-pardon me, 1945, a man by the name of Duclos wrote a letter in criticism of COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 355 the Communist Party activities in this country. It was at the time Earl Browder was the head, and lie advocated at that time an emergency of the party. He could see new horizons coming out of the war in which the party could come out in the open and work clearly with capital and labor and be a function within the Government of the United States. Whether he was right in this or wrong, I am not in a position to say. It never came to pass. I do know Mr. Duclos wrote a letter in violent opposition to it, which was taken up by the party and carried through to the final end where Browder was ousted. I can only answer your question by saying that if this isn't an international party, then how can a man like Duclos have such influence upon the American scene? Duclos get his ideas? Where did 
Mr. FRAZIER. Thank you very much. 
Mr. VELDE. I would like to join in my colleague's comments and thanks for the excellent testimony which you have given before this committee. Unfortunately, I was not able to hear you this morning, but we do appreciate the information you have given us. It has been a great help in the pei formance of our duties. Is there any reason, Mr. Counsel, why this witness should not be excused
Mr. TAVENNER. There is no reason why he should not be excused. 
Mr. VELDE. The witness is excused. The committee will be in recess for 10 minutes. (Representative Velde left the hearing room during the recess, which lasted from 2:43 p. m. to 3: 10 p. m.)
Mr. JACKSON. The committee will come to order. are you ready to proceed ? 
Mr. Counsel, 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Who is your next witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. The next witness is Mr. Max Benoff.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Benoff, will you stand and be sworn ? Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give before this committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BENOFF. Yes, sir. TESTIMONY OF MAX NATHAN BENOFF, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS
