Mr. HUEBSCH. Edward Huebsch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. HEBnsoH. I am, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself.
Mr. ESTERMAN. I am William B. Esterman, counsel for the witness. I have a brief motion to make, which I can discuss with Mr. Tavenner. I will address myself very briefly to the committee.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Esterman, I think you have previously represented witnesses before this committee and are aware of the rules of the committee with reference to counsel. 318 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. ESTERMAN. It has to do with the TV proceedings.
Mr. VELDE. May I tell you again you are permitted to address motions in writing to the committee.
Mr. ESTERMAN. We are in a situationMr. VELDE. You are not permitted to make any voluntary statements. You are permitted to confer with your own client at all times.
Mr. ESTERIIAN. I have conferred with him.
Mr. VELDE. Do you have a motion to submit in writing?
Mr. ESTERMAN. NO. I have submitted it in writing. But I have discussed the matter with your own counsel, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Esterman, have you a motion to submit in writing ?
Mr. ESTERMAN. I have a motion which I have submitted in writing concerning which I have had no reply. I have discussed this with
Mr. Tavenner and told him I will make this motion. I am an attorney at law and I have a right to make this motion.
Mr. VELDE. The Chair orders that any voluntary statement on the part of counsel will be stricken from the record. I will ask you, Mr. Counsel, if you have received a written motion of any kind.
Mr. TAVENNER. This is the first intimation I have had of a written motion.
Mr. ESTERMAN. I discussed an oral motion which concerns the televisionMr. VELDE. These voluntary statements and remarks from counsel will be stricken from the record. You know the rules of this committee. You have a written motion to submit? If so, you will transmit it to the chairman.
Mr. ESTESRAN. May we have a response to the written motion we have filed by telegram, a copy of which I have here
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee will be in recess for 5 minutes to consider this motion. (Short recess was taken.)
Mr. VELDE. The meeting will be in order. May the record show that present at this point are Mr. Jackson,
Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Frazier, and the chairman, Mr. Velde. For the record, the committee has considered the written motion submitted and now the Chair will ask the witness whether the witness concurs and agrees with the motion presented by his counsel.
Mr. HUEPBSCH. I do so concur, basing myself on the written opinion in the Federal District Court of Washinaton, D. C., which held that television broadcast facilities violate the atmosphere of a calm judicial legislative hearing. Not that I myself object to being televised, but I object to the legislative hearings of the United States Congress being so abused.
Mr. VELDE. Accordingly, the witness is excused until Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock, at which time you willMr. ESTERMAN. May we askMr. VELDE. The witness is excused and so is his counsel. Before calling the next witness, the Chair would like to state that it is the purpose of the committee to disseminate the results of these hearings to the public, in order that we might fairly treat our public information services, the news, the newsreel, the still photo camera as well as television and the radio. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 319 However, this witness has requested that all television apparatus be removed from the room before he will testify. I hope that he will testify when the television apparatus is removed from the room next Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock. Call your next witness. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Philip Eastman.
Mr. VELDE. In the testimony you are about to give before this committee, do you solemnly swear you will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ? TESTIMONY OF PHILIP DEY EASTMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, MORRIS E. COHN
