Mr. FARAGOH. My name is Francis Edward Faragoh.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please spell your name? 362 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. FARAGOH. F-a-r-a-g-o-h. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Faragoh?
Mr. FARAGOH. I was born in Hungary, rather, at that time in the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, in 1895.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you come to this country?
Mr. FARAGOH. 1909, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a naturalized American citizen?
Mr. FARAGOHI. Yes; I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you naturalized ? 
Mr. FARAGOH. The year is correct, 1935. I am guessing that it was in February.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you advise the committee, please, what your formal educational training has consisted of?
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, I began my formal education in Hungary and continued there until the age of 14. Upon coming to this country I attended elementary and high schools in New York City and also attended the College of the City of New York and Columbia University. That has been my formal education.
Mr. TAVENNER. Pardon me for my failure to ask you whether or not you are accompanied by counsel.
Mr. FARAGOH. I am, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. COHN. Yes. My name is Morris E. Cohn, of Los Angeles?
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation, Mr. Faragoh?
Mr. FARAGOI. I used to be a writer, sir; I am retired. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you retire from your profession?
Mr. FARAGOH. In 1947. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you engage in the business of writing?
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, this is not going to be particularly accurate. I think it will serve the purpose to say since 1920, and continuing until 1947.
Mr. TAvENNER. During that period of time, did you reside in Los Angeles or in this vicinity ?
Mr. FARAGOH. No. I came to Los Angeles in 1929.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have remained here since that time? 
Mr. FARAGOH. No; I have not. About 5 years ago I left Los An- geles, a little over 5 years ago, as a matter of fact. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Faragoh, during the testimony of Mr. Sidney Buchman before the Committee on Un-American Activities, September 25, 1951, Mr. Buchman took occasion to refer to you. He stated that he had read from the testimony of certain witnesses, who had appeared before the committee, that you had been at one time a member of the Communist Party. And in referring to you he used this language, "Mr. Faragoh, to the best of my knowledge and by statements from time to time, I can't place them exactly, when or where, but I believe that Mr. Francis Faragoh is not a Communist and never has been." After making that statement I asked Mr. Sidney Buchman if he had ever attended a Communist Party meeting in your home. His reply was that he had never attended a Communist Party meeting in your home at which you were present. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 363 Now, my first question is, did you at any time attend a Communist Party meeting at which-either in your home or at any other place, at which Mr. Sidney Buchman was present?
Mr. FARAGOH. Will you phrase that question again? I missed the first part of it. I am sorry.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time attend a Communist Party meeting in your home or at any other place, at which Mr. Sidney Buchman was present?
Mr. FARAGOH. I shall decline and do decline to answer this question, sir, basing my declination on the fifth amendment, on that provision of which protects me from acting as a witness against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discuss with Mr. Sidney Buchman prior to his appearance as a witness before this committee in September 1951, what his testimony would be with regard to you?
Mr. FARAGOH. May I consult counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. (At this point Mr. Faragoh conferred with Mr. Cohn.)
Mr. FARAGOH. Sir, I shall decline to reply to this question, inasmuch as Mr. Sidney Buchman has appeared before this committee, and my testimony might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you refuse to testify as to whether you and
Mr. Buchman conferred before his testimony was given before this committee ?
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, inasmuch as Mr. Buchman is connected with that question, I do decline to answer this question as well.
Mr. JACKSON. Your declination is on the same ground as previously stated, the provisions against possible self-incrimination?
Mr. FARAGOH. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was the last time you saw Mr. Sidney Buchman and talked to him ?
Mr. FARAGOH. This again involves Sidney Buchman, and I shall again decline on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, whether or not Communist Party meetings were held at any time in your home?
Mr. FARAGOH. There again, sirMr. TAVENNER. TO your knowledge.
Mr. FARAGOH. Here again, sir, inasmuch as it mentions an organization which has been listed as subversive, I shall decline to answer on the ground of the fifth amendment, of the same provision which I gave before.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to call to your attention, Mr. Faragoh, for the purpose of giving you an opportunity to make any explanation you desire, or to deny the statements as being true, the testimony of
Mr. Dmytryk and Mr. Martin Berkeley, and Mrs. Meta Reis Rosenberg, relating to you, and in the course of Mr. Dmytryk's testimony before this committee on April 25, 1951, Mr. Dmytryk was asked to tell the committee what he knew with regard to a group of the Communist Party to which he had been transferred.
Mr. Dmytryk's testimony was as follows: I was transferred to a special group. This was toward the end of the Communist Political Association I don't know exactly why this special group was organized. I was told later-I believe I heard it at the original hearings-they were called the Davis group.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOu heard it was called the Davis group? 364 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. DuYrrBY. They started naming the groups after famous dead Communists. They wouldn't use live ones because they didn't know how they would wind up. That group met in San Fernando Valley. They were people either considered super secret or super prestige. I attended two meetings. I have no idea what the ultimate purpose of the group was, but I know it was a secret thing. I attended two meetings of this group. One meeting was at Sidney Buchman's house, although Sidney Buchman was not present at the meeting.
Mr. TAVENNEB. Can you give us the circumstances under which you met at this house?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I can't say exactly, except Adrian Scott had been called and told to bring me along and come to a certain person's house. We went there and found no one there, and a servant told us to go to Sidney Buchman's house, and we did. Sidney Buchman was not there. In this group were John Howard Lawson, Adrian Scott and myself, a writer named Francis-that is the masculine Francis-Faragoh and his wife Elizabeth Faragoh, and a couple I had never met before- and so on.
Mr. Martin Berkeley, in the course of his testimony, which I have already read during these hearings to another witness, Witness Danny Dare, identified you and a person by the name of Irving J. White as members of the Communist Party. And as I mentioned a moment ago, the witness Mrs. Meta Reis Rosenberg identified you as a member of the Communist Party, along with Herbert Biberman, Dorothy Tree, and her husband Michael Uris. I would like to ask you whether or not any phase of the testimony of these three witnesses relating to you is untrue?
Mr. COHn. May I confer just a moment?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (At this point Mr. Cohn conferred with Mr. Faragoh.)
Mr. FARAGOH. I shall like to request you withdraw that question for the following reason: I am-rather, I understand from your reading of the testimony of certain witnesses that some people have testified that I have been a member of the Communist Party and other witnesses have specifically denied that I have ever been, both parties under oath.
Mr. JACKSON. Counsel, may I suggest that should be broken down into individual statements.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me get the question.
Mr. JACKsON. Your question has combined all these.
Mr. TAVENNER. My first question, then, will relate solely to the testimony of Mr. Dmytryk, who testified, as I think you will recall from my reading of his testimony.
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. To the effect that you were in attendance at this Communist Party meeting which he attended of a group which was known as the special group over in the San Fernando Valley.
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there anything about that statement or that testimony of Mr. Dmytryk which was untrue ?
Mr. FARAGOH. Again I must make the same request to you, sir. Inasmuch as I have the testimony against me and I have some testimony to the contrary of that, I am in the position where if I answer your questions I will deny what one or the other party testified to, and I believe that is a very perilous position for any witness. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 365 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you predicated your request upon testimony having been given by another person that you were not a member of the Communist Party. To what testimony are you referring, if I understood you correctly ?
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, I have read the record, sir, and I am referring there to Mr. Sidney Buchman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I read Mr. Sidney Buchman's statement to you, which was that "Mr. Faragoh, to the best of my knowledge and by statements from time to time, I can't place them exactly when or where, but I feel Mr. Francis Faragoh is not a Communist and never has been." Did you construe that as proof of your contention that you never were a member of the party ?
Mr. FARAGOH. Sir, when you use the word "proof," I believe it is proof to the same degree as the testimony of the other witnesses.
Mr. TAVENNER. No. The fact that one person says that from his conversations he doesn't believe you to be a member of the Communist Party, is not at all the equivalent of a statement by another person that you were present in a Communist Party meeting with him and that you were a member of the Communist Party. One is a negative statement and the other is a positive statement. I mean I don't want to argue that with you.
Mr. FARAGOH. Nor do I wish to argue it with you, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have asked me to withdraw the question, and I can't do that, Mr. Faragoh. There is no reason why you should not be asked that question any more than any other of the hundreds of witnesses who have answered similar questions.
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, I ask for my counsel to address the chair.
Mr. JACKSON. NO, I am sorry. Your counsel cannot address the chair. Under the rules of the committee your counsel is here for the purpose of lending advice and assistance only on matters of your constitutional rights.
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, sir, these happen to be very special circumstances and a very special situation. 
Mr. JACKSON. I am sorry, but I
Mr. FARAGOH. What would be that he withdraw the question?
Mr. JACKSON. You have been I were called upon to rule on it, I can't permit counsel. your present ruling on my request asked a question by counsel. If would direct that you answer. The testimony of Mr. Buchman, it appears to me, is a conclusion of Mr. Buchman's, and I don't know that any individual is in a position to state definitely that any other person is not a member of the Communist Party. However, the testimony of Dmytryk and the others who have been mentioned by counsel contains direct references to your alleged membership in the Communist Party. That is the positive testimony which has been put in the form of a direct question to you, so I would direct that you answer the question asked by counsel.
Mr. FARAGOH. May I just hear the question again?
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the testimony of Mr. Dmytryk that I read to you a few moments ago?
Mr. FARAGOH. I do, sir, but not to the extent of being able to answer without your reminding me of it. 366 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I will reread the testimony. I will read this portion of Mr. Dmytryk's testimony: They started naming the groups after famous dead Communists. They would not use live ones because they didn't know how they would wind up. One group- meaning the group to which he was assigned, Mr. Dmytryk was assignedmet in the San Fernando Valley. They were people who were considered supersecret or superprestige. I attended two meetings. I had no idea what the ultimate purpose of the group was, but I know it was a secret thing. I attended two meetings of this group. One meeting was at Sidney Buchman's house, although Sidney Buchman was not present at the meeting. QUESTION. Can you give us the circumstances under which you met at this house?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I can't say exactly, except Adrian Scott had been called and told to bring me along and to come to a certain person's house We went there and found no one was there, and the servants told us to go to Sidney Buchman's house, and we did. Sidney Buchman was not there. In this group were John Howard Lawson, Adrian Scott, and myself, a writer named Francis, that is the masculine, Francis Faragoh, and his wife Elizabeth Faragoh. And so forth. Now, is there any portion of that statement, of that testimony by
Mr. Dmytryk, which to your knowledge is untrue?
Mr. FARAGOH. Sir, I decline to answer this question on the grounds of the same provision.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Martin Berkeley identified you as a member of the Communist Party. Was his identification correct or was it false?
Mr. FARAGOH. It is the same question and I give the same answer, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Meta Reis Rosenberg identified you along with Samuel Ornitz, Herbert Biberman, Dorothy Tree, and her husband Michael Uris, as members of the Communist Party. Was any part of that testimony, to your knowledge, untrue ?
Mr. FARAGOH. The same answer, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party i
Mr. FARAGOH. I decline to answer that question on the ground of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. FARAGOH. Same answer, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Clardy. 
Mr. CLARDY. Are you contributing to the Communist Party at present?
Mr. FARAGOH. This is the same answer, sir.
Mr. CLARDY. You mean you are standing on the fifth amendment again?
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes, sir.
Mr. CLARDY. That is all right. You may just repeat the same ground.
Mr. FARAGOH. I am sorry.
Mr. CLARDT. That is all right. I am just trying to help you out a little and shorten this up. Do you subscribe to or do you receive the Communist Daily Worker?
Mr. FARAGOH. Will you give me a moment? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 367 
Mr. CLARDY. Yes; you may confer with counsel any time. (At this point Mr. Faragoh conferred with Mr. Cohn.)
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, as a matter of fact, I do not, sir, and I was merely asking my counsel whether this would fall under the provisions of the fifth amendment. In that case I would have refused to answer.
Mr. CLARDY. Have you ever received it ? 
Mr. FARAGOH. I shall refuse to answer that question, fifth amendment.
Mr. CLARDY. Do you belong to any organization any member of which to your knowledge is a Communist
Mr. FARAGOH. Just one second, sir, please.
Mr. CLARDY. You may consult him. (At this point Mr. Faragoh conferred with Mr. Cohn.)
Mr. FARAGOH. I will tell you why I am not answering without conferring. This question is almost impossible to answer, because that would indicate that almost anything, any organization of any description, I would have to know independently the makeup of the membership. Nevertheless, specifically, on this question, I wish again to use my rights under the fifth amendment, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. You decline to answer.
Mr. CLARDY. Are you acquainted with any person you know to be a Communist?
Mr. FARAGOH. That is the same question, sir, and the same answer.
Mr. CLARDY. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Walter. 
Mr. WALTER. You said you came to California in 1929 and with the exception of 5 years have resided here continuously since that time.
Mr. FARAGOH. That is right, sir.
Mr. WALTER. During what period of time did you reside elsewhere I
Mr. FARAGOH. I am sorry. I am residing elsewhere now. In other words, I left Hollywood in 1948, in the month of February.
Mr. WALTER. Between 1929 and 1948 you resided continuously in Los Angeles or Hollywood?
Mr. FARAGOH. No; I made some trips to Hollywood and I made trips to the East and I stayed there for extended periods. I cannot give you the specific dates, however. This period I will put between 1931 and let us say 1942 or 1943, without wishing to stand on those dates for pinpoint accuracy.
Mr. WALTER. That is all.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Scherer. 
Mr. SCHERER. Did you ever write anything for the Communist Party? You are a retired writer; is that right?
Mr. FARAGOH. That is right.
Mr. ScHERER. During the time that you were writing actively, did you ever write anything for the Communist Party?
Mr. FARAGOH. This again falls under the provisions of the fifth amendment, and I shall decline to answer.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you ever receive any compensation or anything of value from the Communist Party?
Mr. FARAGOH. That is the same question, and the same answer.
Mr. SCHERER. You refuse to answer? 368 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes. 
Mr. SCHEERR. If you were not a member of the Communist Party, would you be willing to so state, Mr. Witness?
Mr. FARAGOH. I think-may I confer with counsel? (At this point, Mr. Faragoh conferred with Mr. Cohn.)
Mr. FARAGOH. In consultation with counsel, I have come to the decision which I grabbed for before. That is a hypothetical and speculative question, and I wish to decline on the ground of the fifth amendment, because it might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. JACKSON. You are under no compulsion to answer.
Mr. FARAGOH. I understand, but I do decline.
Mr. SCHERER. Now, you asked Mr. Tavenner to withdraw a certain question he asked you just a few minutes ago, and I believe the basis for your asking him to withdraw that question was the fact that two or three witnesses had said that you were a member of the party, and another witness testified that you were not a member of the Communist Party. Is that right? Is that statement correct?
Mr. FARAGOH. That is substantially right; yes.
Mr. SCHERER. All right. Now I would like, Mr. Tavenner, for you to read Mr. Sidney Buchman's testimony to the witness again.
Mr. TAVENNER (reading):
Mr. BUCHMAN. Mr. Faragoh, to the best of my knowledge and by statements from time to time-I can't place them exactly when or where, but I believe that
Mr. Francis Faragoh is not a Communist and never has been.
Mr. SCHERER. That is the testimony which you said indicated that
Mr. Buchman had testified that you were not a member of the Communist Party, and was the basis for your asking that the question be withdrawn; is that correct?
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes; that is correct.
Mr. SCHERER. Now, will you tell the committee whether or not Mr. Buchman's statement is true?
Mr. FARAGOH. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. SCHERER. That is all.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. You came to the United States, Mr. Faragoh, at the age of 14?
Mr. FARAGOH. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. You came with your parents?
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes; I did. That is my father.
Mr. DoYLE. You were naturalized in 1935?
Mr. FARAGOH. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. Either before you were naturahzed or since, did you engage in any foreign travel to any foreign country ?
Mr. FARAGOH. I applied for a visa in 1931 to go to England, but I didn't go. I may have been to Tiajuana, I wouldn't swear to it, sir. Otherwise, I can very specifically state that I have not been abroad.
Mr. DoYLE. You were active from 1920 to 1947?
Mr. FARAGOH. In motion pictures.
Mr. DOYLE. In writing?
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you done any writing since you retired?
Mr. FARAGOH. Well, I am trying to work on a play, but it is not current work, and I am not employed. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 369 
Mr. DOYLE. Since you became an adult and were naturalized in this country, have you ever given any lectures on any subjects?
Mr. FARAGOH. On any subjects, sir?
Mr. DOYLE. Or given any classes, instruction or group instruction of any sort? I mean as a teacher or instructor?
Mr. FARAGOH. I am searching my memory. I never gave a course of any kind.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, it would not have to be a course.
Mr. FAR.coH. I am sorry. You also included the word "lecture"?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. Have you lectured on any subject, in other words, to a group, either large or small? Well, let me be more specific.
Mr. FARAGOH. Please be.
Mr. DOYLE. You may want to stand on your constitutional rights. Since becoming an American citizen in 1935, have you given any speech. in support of the objectives of the Communist Party of America ? (At this point Mr. Faragoh conferred with Mr. Cohn.)
Mr. FARAGOH. No, sir, I never have.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you ever written any pamphlet or any booklet in support of the objectives of the American Communist Party?
Mr. FARAGOH. One second, sir. (At this point Mr. Faragoh conferred with Mr. Cohn.)
Mr. FARAGOH. I think I am ready for my answer now. I have never written anything of the nature that you have mentioned. I wish to exclude from that possibly, and only possibly, any writing of mine which may have coincided with any single objective or group of objectives of the Communist Party in any one period, although, as I state, I am not aware of having written any such thing.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you ever used any other name in writing, other than your legal name ?
Mr. FARAGOH. I used the name of Edward Francois in the early twenties, I think I might say before 1925, for some potboiler magazines.
Mr. DOYLE. You say you are writing a play in your retirement. Was that the nature of your writing before you retired, in connection with the entertainment field?
Mr. FARAGOH. I was doing work on motion pictures.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Frazier?
Mr. FRAZIER. I believe you stated you were retired; is that correct ?
Mr. FARAGOH. Yes.
Mr. FRAZIER. If you are retired, I am at a loss to understand why you decline either to state that you are a member of the Communist Party or that you are not a member of the Communist Party. Are you laboring under the impression that it is a violation of law to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FRAEGOH. I think I gave the answer to that when I answered the original questions by advice of counsel.
Mr. FRAZIER. You decline to answer?
Mr. FARAGOR. I decline to answer.
Mr. FRAZIER. Have you ever voted for a Communist candidate for President of the United States?
Mr. FARAGOH. I think, sir, that that would involve the secrecy of the ballot.
Mr. FRAZIER. Not necessarily. 370 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. FARAGOH. And I stand on the fifth amendment in that connection.
Mr. FRAZIER. All right.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you finished?
Mr. FRAZIER. I have finished.
Mr. JACKsoN. Mr. Counsel, do you have anything more?
Mr. TAVENNER. No further questions, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. JACKSON. The committee will stand in recess until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. The witness is excused. (Whereupon, at 4:10 p. m., the hearing was recessed until 10 a. m., Wednesday, March 25, 1953.) INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TIE LOS ANGELES AREA-PART 1 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1953 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to adjournment at 10: 08 a. m., in room 518, Federal Building, Hon. Harold H. Velde (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Harold H. Velde (chairman), Donald L. Jackson, Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scherer, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder (appearance noted in transcript), Clyde Doyle (appearance noted in transcript), and James B. Frazier, Jr. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Louis J. Russell, chief investigator; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., chief clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; and William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order.
Miss Reporter, show that present are Mr. Jackson, Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Walter, Mr. Frazier, and Mr. Velde (chairman), a quorum of the full committee.
Mr. Counsel, do you have a witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I would like to call at this time the witness who was put over until today by the direction of the chairman on Monday, Mr. Edward Huebsch.
Mr. VELDE. In the testimony you are about to give before this committee, do you solemnly swear you will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. HUEBSCH. I do, sir. TESTIMONY OF EDWARD HUEBSCH, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, WILLIAM B. ESTERMAN AND DANIEL G. MARSHALL
Mr. VELDE. At the request of the witness it was decided by the committee that this hearing would not be televised. I ask now that the television cameras cease and desist, and we will proceed with the regular meeting.
Mr. HUEBSCH. Sir, I did not so request.'
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Chairman, before we go any further, I am going to ask this witness if you think it is funny to wear the button you 1See p 318 for references to a motion filed for this witness by his counsel, and in which the witness concurred, against the use of television while he was on the stand The committee considered the motion in executive session and excused the witness until a day of the hearing when television would not be used 372 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA have on. I assure you it is contemptuous. You are now appearing before a committee of the United States Congress, and I resent that very, very much.
Mr. HUEBSCH. Sil, this is in a way a resolution, in the form of a resolution before the Democratic Members of Congress.
Mr. WALTER. I resent very much having anybody appear with a button like that on.
Mr. HUEBSCH. There are other buttons here.
Mr. VELDE. I think we can resume.
Mr. HrEUBSCH. Sir, I have not asked and do not ask that the television cameras be turned off during my appearance here. I have asked that my subpena be quashed for several legal grounds. And I do not know at the moment whether this committee has ruled on the motion that I made through my attorney.
Mr. VELDE. The committee does not rule on motions. The committee just makes directions, and I have made the direction that the television cameras be turned off so that we might proceed with this meeting, and that is at the request of the witness himself, that he not be televised.
Mr. HTEBSCH. That is not true.
Mr. VELDE. And that the audio also be turned off.
Mr. HUEBSCH. I did not so request, and I do not so request.
Mr. WALTER. They are turned off, and you are not going to have an opportunity to put on the kind of an act you came here prepared to put on.
Mr. HUEBSCH. I came here in answer to a subpena.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name, please, sir ?
Mr. HUERSCH. My name, sir, is Edward Huebsch, H-u-e-b-s-c-h.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Huebsch?
Mr. HUEBSCH. I was born in New York City, sir, on February 20 of 1914.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel ?
Mr. HUEBSCH. I am, sir. But, sir, I would like to point out that counsel's motion has been denied here, not even ruled upon, and it seems to me that my rights and the rights of counsel have been violated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify themselves for the record ?
Mr. ESTERMAN. I hesitate to open my mouth, but I will identify myself.
Mr. WALTER. I don't think it is necessary. We all know who you are.
Mr. ESTERMAN. William B. Esterman.
Mr. MARSHALL. Daniel G. Marshall.
Mr. JACKsON. I think the matter of this television motion should be made perfectly clear, Mr. Chairman. The other day, when the present witness was called before the committee, a motion was filed, not only that the witness not be televised, but that all television equipment in the room be removed during the course of his interrogation. (Representative Clyde Doyle entered the hearing room at this point, 10:13 a. m.)
Mr. JACKSON. Acting in accordance with that motion, the committee retired, as you will recall, and took up the matter and came back and made the ruling. I think it should be made perfectly clear COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 373 to all concerned that the reason there is no television here today is because of the motion that was filed by counsel on, I believe, last Monday.
Mr. HUEBSCH. If you would have the reporter read the record back of my remarks there, I believe you will find I did not object to being televised. I ask you to read the record of my remarks and also of the attorney's motion which was filed with this committee.
Mr. JACKSON. The committee is acting upon the motion of your counsel, who is presumed to speak for you in the matter of the television.
Mr. HuEBSCI. Sir, the motion was to quash the subpena. I did agree to appear on television.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed.
Mr. HuEBSCH. I do agree. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee, please, a general statement of your formal education training, Mr. Huebsch? (At this point Mr. Huebsch conferred with Mr. Marshall and Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. HUEBSCH. My formal education, sir, was limited to public school and high school in the city of New York.
Mr. TAVENNEE. What is your occupation? 
Mr. HUEBSCH. Well, sir, I would like an understanding with the Chair. Representative Velde is the author of bills and a couple of books. I don't believe he is qualified to conduct an impartial hearing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you answer my question, please?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Witness, you were asked a question, and the answer can be given very simply.
Mr. HrIEBscH. We are now having an unusual type of hearing, and I submit, sir, that you are the author of a bookMr. VELDE. That is in the nature of argument, and not an answer.
Mr. WALTER. And not the truth. 
Mr. HrEnsBH. I will submit the bill. I will submit a copy of the bill as a document in this record.
Mr. JACKSON. I move that the remarks of the witness having to do with this extraneous matter be stricken from the record, Mr. Chairman, as not being pertinent to this inquiry and not being responsive to the questions that are being asked.
Mr. VELDE. It is so ordered. All the matter which is not responsive to the question, which is volunteered only, will be stricken from the record.
Mr. HuEBSH. With your permission, I would like to inquire from the chairmanMr. CLARDY. Mr. Chairman, a point of order. There is a question pending which he has not answered.
Mr. VELDE. That voluntary remark will be stricken from the record, too.
Mr. HUEBSCH. The question is what was my occupation, sir. My occupation is not an occupation that does not carry with it certain responsibilities. In the discharge of those responsibilities I am try- ing to answer the question.
Mr. WALTER. We are not asking about your employment with the Communist Party. We are asking about what you do that you admit that you do. 31747-53-pt 1-8 374 COMMsUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. HUEBSCH. Mr. Congressman, if you will put your question in proper terms, I will try to answer your question, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you the question in this form: It seems to be taking so long for you to answer. Have you ever been a screen writer?
Mr. HUEBSCH. I, sir, have been and am a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you become a screen writer
Mr. HUEBSCH. I became a screen writer 10 days after my discharge from the Army in 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to 1946 you were in the Army, the United States Army?
Mr. HUEBSCH. Prior to January 10, yes; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long had you been in the United States Army ?
Mr. HuEBSnH. I entered the Army late in '42. I volunteered for the Army right after Pearl Harbor.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you come from New York to Los Angeles?
Mr. HEBascH. I came to Los Angeles directly-I spent a few days with my family in New York and then immediately flew out here to California.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that your first residence in California?
Mr. HUEBSCH. Yes; it was, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a member of the Communist Party prior to your coming to Los Angeles, at the time you have indicated?
Mr. HUEBSCH. Well, sir(At this point Mr. Huebsch conferred with Mr. Marshall and Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. HUEBSCH. This question goes to the issue of my right to attend meetings, and if I submit an answer-I cannot answer that because Congress cannot tell me what meetings I should go to and which I should not go to. That is the question of the first amendment. Now, sir, in these days of hysteria, Congress has passed the Smith Act, which put a man in this position: They violate his rights to go to a meeting and they say to him, If you say, "Yes, I went to a meeting," then the wagon is waiting outside. So you can't force me to make an answer to this question. Now, if a man says "No" to a question like this, you simply force him to abandon the right of going to any meeting or to any group of people where free speech is permitted.
Mr. DOYLE. You don't agree with the Supreme Court of the United States, do you?
Mr. WALTER. I don't think we ought to listen to all this wrangling. Let's have an answer to the question and then proceed.
Mr. VELDE. It is the opinion of the Chair that we have gone into that subject far enough, that you have rambled far enough. It is in the nature of an argument, one that we have heard many times before, from witnesses just about like you.
Mr. WALTER. And better qualified.
Mr. VELDE. And we are not interested at all in hearing any more of that type of argument. I now direct you to answer the question put to you by counsel.
Mr. HUEBSCH. Sir, I am answering this question in a rough layman's language, about what all this means to me. I ask you to bear with COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 375 me. The grounds that I have spoken of so far deal with free speech and the right not to be compelled to give up this free speech in the face of hysterical laws condemned by the CIO and the A. F. of L. I finally state to you that you, my Congressmen, are my representatives, that you must listen to my views and that you must abide by them.
Mr. WALTER. I think it would be better to listen to the Kremlin. It would be more logical.
Mr. HUEBSCH. Sir, you are listening to the Constitution.
Mr. WALTER. Well, I know something about that myself.
Mr. JACKSON. We are listening to something that sounds very much like an editorial from the Daily Worker.
Mr. HUEBSCH. Well, the Daily News recently ran several editorials, the like of which you don't appear to approve of. Now, sir, I have told you as clearly as I can that I assert my rights as a citizen under the first, fifth, ninth and tenth amendments, and that my answer to this question is neither yes nor is it no, and that you cannot infer or make anything other of it than that. Is that right, counsel?
Mr. ESTERMAN. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. Therefore, you decline to answer the question ?
Mr. HUEBSCH. I have said what I have to say. My answer is neither yes or no, asserting my rights as a citizen. You can't make anything more of it than that, for all of these grounds which I have gone into, and I am prepared to go into at great length, dealing with all of the legislation, the question of what the Supreme Court has ruled and what it may rule in the future.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you decline to answer the question ?
Mr. HrEBSCH. I am glad you asked me this, Congressman Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. I'm sorry I asked it. I will withdraw the question and I will let counsel ask it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Huebsch, the only recognized legal ground for refusing to answer the question which you have assigned is that of the fifth amendment.
Mr. HUEBSCH. By whose recognition ?
Mr. TAVENNER. By what provision of the fifth amendment do you refuse to answer
Mr. HUEBSCH. By whose recognition 9
Mr. TAVENNER. By the Supreme Court of the United States.
Mr. HUEBSCH. Would you please quote that document to me wherein only the fifth amendment is recognized by the Constitution ?
Mr. TAVENNER. That wasn't my statement. 
Mr. HUEBscH. You said it was only recognized-Mr. TAVENNER. I asked you what provision of the fifth amendment is it that you rely on as the basis for your refusal to answer.
Mr. HUEBSOH. Now I am going to tell you againMr. TAVENNER. You haven't told us the first time yet as to that.
Mr. HUEBSCH. I believe I have made it quite clear. If I haven't made it clear, I intend to make it clear. I am no lawyer. I am a writer. I told you that for many years I have gone to meetings. I have worked to improve the conditions of writers-Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, the answer is not at all responsive to my question. May I ask that the witness be confined to answer the 376 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA question I asked, and that is merely what provision of the fifth amendment is it that the witness relies upon as the basis for his refusal to answer. (At this point Mr. Huebsch conferred with Mr. Marshall and Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. HUEBSCH. Sir, would you have the reporter repeat the last question ?
Mr. TAVENNE.. Will you read the question to the witness, please ? (The question was read.)
Mr. HrEBSCH. Now, I have had a conference with distinguished counsel, and they say, to boil it down, that every court permits a witness to explain his answer. I am sure that this committee does not rise above the courts, and I would like to make such explanation.
Mr. VELDE. As long as that explanation is not in the nature of argument or voluntary statements such as the witness has been making during this hearing, the witness will be permitted to make a legal explanation of his refusal to answer.
Mr. HUEBSCH. To King George III, I am sure, all constitutional provisions were questionable, but I don't think we are ready to crown King Harold Velde here.
Mr. JACKSON. I resent that, as a member of the committee. If you can't show any respect for the Congress of the United States, the best thing you can do is to keep quiet. Leave personalities out of it.
Mr. HUEBSCH. I will explain my answer.
Mr. JACKSON. You can't explain that statement. I will ask to have it removed.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Chairman, I am not interested as an individual member of this committee in what the man's reason is for declining to answer the question, and I am sick and tired of these typical Communist tactics. This is a very familiar picture, and it seems to me that we are just wasting our time asking this witness a lot of questions. Let's find out two or three things and excuse him and get on with our business.
Mr. VELDE. As chairman, I heartily concur in what the Congressman from Pennsylvania has just stated. Will you answer the question asked of you?
Mr. HUEBSCH. I was asked to explain my previous answer, which was- 
Mr. TAVENNER. You were not asked to explain anything. You were asked to state what provision it was of the fifth amendment on which you base your declination to answer the question.
Mr. WALTER. What difference does it make?
Mr. TAVENNER. The only difference that it makes, I believe, is that the witness explained in great detail and great length numerous amendments, but referred in such a general way to the fifth amendment that it would lead one to think that he was not actually relying upon it, and that is the only legal basis as far as this committee is concerned, I think, for his refusal to answer the question.
Mr. CLARDY. May I suggest you ask him point blank whether or not he is relying upon that part which deals with self-incrimination; in other words, is he not answering because he is afraid he will incriminate himself ?
Mr. HUEBSCH. Sir, there is a question pending. I ask that the reporter read the question. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 377 
Mr. CLARDY. I didn't address anything to you. I suggested to counsel that he ask that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, in the light of the committee member's request, I will withdraw the question and put it in another form.
Mr. Huebsch, when you stated that you were relying upon the fifth amendment as the basis for your refusal to answer, did you mean to rely upon that provision which grants immunity from testifying or privilege against testifying as to any matter which might incriminate one? (At this point Mr. Huebsch conferred with Mr. Marshall and Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. ESTERMAN. Just a moment. 
Mr. HUEBSCH. My answer is, sir, that in the face of unjust laws passed by the Congress-Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I move that the voluntary statement be stricken from the record.
Mr. VELDE. Yes; the voluntary statement will be stricken.
Mr. HUEBSCH. That is not voluntary, sir. That is not voluntary. The Congressman knows better than that.
Mr. CLARDY. I move those exclamations be stricken from the record.
Mr. VELDE. They will be so stricken from the record. Will the witness please proceed to deal with the question, which is very simple and can be answered.
Mr. HuEBSCH. I am dealing here with reality of 1953, sir. Now, let me answer in terms of these realities, of the situation which I face.
Mr. JACKsON. I ask that the extraneous matter be stricken, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. FRAZIER. You are tiring out the patience of the whole committee.
Mr. VELDE. It will be stricken out of the record.
Mr. H EBscH. I wish the committee would have a little more patience.
Mr. JACKSON. I would like to ask that that remark be stricken, and certainly no committee could be any more patient with obvious con- tempt for this committee, for the Congress of the United States and for the American people, the contempt which you have shown this morning. You were asked a very straightforward question. You have had ample opportunity to use this committee table as a sounding board for the Communist Party. Now, having accomplished that, will you kindly answer the question which has been put to you?
Mr. CLARDY. You may answer it "Yes" or "No."
Mr. JACKSON. I assure you that from this point on that I am going to ask that every single statement which you make which is not responsive to the question be physically stricken from the record.
Mr. WALTER. I object to that because I want it all in the record, because it clearly shows that this man is in contempt of the Congress of the United States, and therefore I am going to oppose Mr. Jackson's position.
Mr. JACKSON. Understanding the gentleman's reasons, and sympathizing with them, I withdraw my request.
Mr. CLARDY. I ask that he be directed to answer "yes" or "no," because that question will permit of that kind of answer.
Mr. VELDE. Yes. The witness is so directed to answer that question "yes" or "no." 378 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. ESTEM AN. Answer "yes" or "no?"
Mr. VELDE. Yes. (At this point Mr. Huebsch conferred with Mr. Marshall and Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will be in recess for 5 minutes, which will give counsel ample opportunity to find, I am sure, -whatever they are looking for. (Short recess was taken.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order. Is the witness ready to answer the question?
Mr. HUEBSCH. Since there has been a recess, let's start with the question again, and I will try and frame a response.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will the reporter read the question? (Whereupon, the following question was read by the reporter: "When you stated that you were relying upon the fifth amendment as the basis for your refusal to answer, did you mean to rely upon that provision which grants immunity from testifying or privilege against testifying as to any matter which might incriminate one?")
Mr. HUEBSCH. I now want to have, in my own language-Mr. VELDE. Does the witness remember that the Chair directed him, to answer "yes" or "no"?
Mr. HUEBSCH. The Chair directed me to answer "yes" or "no" to a question? I am instructed by counsel that the Chair cannot instruct me to answer "yes" or "no" to a question, especially since I want to respond by reading as my own language the fifth amendment: No person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service, in time of war or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life and limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor to be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation.
Mr. WALTER. Now that you have read the Constitution, I am sure that you will be willing to answer the question, because you see that the privilege against testifying is in any criminal matter, and this is not a criminal matter.
Mr. HrEBscH. That is not true. The courts have held to the contrary. I wish, sir, to add also to my statement, to my answer, that part of Judge Yankwich's decision-these are legal grounds, sir. These are legal grounds, sir.
Mr. VELDE. The committee is not interested in that. Again this is purely a voluntary statement and in the nature of argument.
Mr. HuEBSCH. Are you waiving aside the ruling of a judge of the United States court?
Mr. VELDE. The Chair directs the witness to answer the question of counsel.
Mr. HUEBSCH. It is in response to why I have answered in the way I have answered. I am basing myself on part of a ruling made in the Federal court, I believe in the ninth circuit. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 379 
Mr. JACKSON. It isn't necessary for you to read precedents or read the findings into the case. All that is necessary for you to do is to say "yes" or "no" in answer to the question.
Mr. HUEBSCH. I do it in my own language, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Your own language? Mr. Chairman, from now on I am going to renew my motion, that anything extraneous be stricken. It is not responsive.
Mr. DOYLE. I might make this observation to the witness: There is no decision by a Federal judge that supersedes the United States Constitution. You have read the fifth amendment. I think that would be far more important, and the only thing you need. If you stand on thatMr. HUEBSCH. I agree with you, Mr. Doyle, nothing needs to precede the fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. Stop arguing and give your answer.
Mr. HUEBSCH. I am not arguing.
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, you are. 
Mr. HUEBSCH. Judge Yankwich brought up to date-Mr. VELDE. That is purely a voluntary statement. Will the witness say whether or not he is relying on the fifth amendment for his refusal to answer questions concerning his communisticMr. HUEBSCH. I have asserted my rights in the first, fifth, ninth, and tenth amendments of the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party since you became a screen writer?
Mr. HUEBscH. This question, sir, has as its issue politics.
Mr. VELDE. That is purely a voluntary statement. Of course, it should be stricken from the record. It is stricken from the record. Will the witness answer or decline to answer ?
Mr. HUEBSCH. Sir, my answer to this question is neither in the negative nor is it in the affirmative. My answer to this question is that in the realm of politics Congress is forbidden to make lawsMr. VELDE. That remark will be stricken from the record. Will the witness answer or decline to answer?
Mr. HUEBsC.. Shall I read it in de novo the language of the first amendment ?
Mr. SCHERER. I move you instruct the witness to answer the question. If he doesn't answer, I think we should dismiss this witness.
Mr. VELDE. Of course, the gentleman is absolutely right. The question is simple. I am sure the witness knows the answer to it.
Mr. WALTER. Well, I think the witness has answered. He has answered. He said, "My answer is neither 'yes' nor 'no'." That is his answer. Let's let the record stand on that.
Mr. HUEBSCH. No, it is not, sir; no, it is not.
Mr. WALTER. That is exactly what you said.
Mr. HUEBSOH. I have not finished my answer. The reason that a person's answers are not(At this point Mr. Huebsch conferred with Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. HUEBSCH. Look, now, you have got a writer up here. You haven't got a lawyer. You gentlemen are Members of the Congress. I don't dispute with you on points of law. I don't want to. That is not what I am here for. 380 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA My familiarity with the Constitution goes back to my school days. But I am asserting here that the Constitution says I do not have to answer that question one way or the other, and you can't say that I haven't answered it one way or another. That is the first amendment to me, because it is a violation of my politics.
Mr. WALTER. Let's see if we have that straight.
Miss Reporter, read the answer. (Whereupon, the answer was read.)
Mr. WALTER. That is the answer.
Mr. HUEBSBCH. That is not the answer.
Mr. VELDB. Is there any reason why this witness should not be excused?
Mr. HUEnSCH. Unless that question is withdrawn, sir, I will absolutely require-I need to finish my answer. NowMr. WALTER. You have an answer. You answered it and the answer was read back to you. Do you have any other questions, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. HUEBscH. That is only a part of the answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. No; I don't have any more questions.
Mr. HuEBscH. There isMr. CLARDY. I ask the witness be dismissed from the stand.
Mr. Hrusc. I assert my right to refuse to answer yes or no on the first, fifth, ninth, and tenth amendments of the Constitution.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Tavenner, do you have any further questions ?
Mr. HuTEscH. Is that of record? Is my answer of record?
Mr. JACKSON. What was your answer?
Mr. HuEBSCH. My answer was that I assert my rights to refuse to answer yes or no on the first, fifth, ninth, and tenth amendments of the Constitution.
Mr. VELDE. The witness is dismissed. The Chair wishes to state, for the benefit of the television audience, that on last Monday the witness who has just been heard objected to being televised, and also insisted that the television equipment be removed from the room during the time that he was testifying. The committee, after this request was made, went into executive session and decided that there would be no television of this hearing this morning, and it was so announced last Monday by the Chair. The Chair, and I am sure the members of the committee, regret that we had to deprive the public of the benefits or lack of benefits that were derived from the testimony of the last witness. However, we will proceed now. Unless another witness objects to being televised, we will proceed with the television.
Mr. Counsel, do you have another witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. The next witness is Mr. Bart Lytton.
Mr. VELDE. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn? In the testimony that you are about to give before this committee, do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. LYrroN. So help me God.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Reporter, let the record show at this point the presence of Mr. Jackson, Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Walter, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Frazier, and the chairman, Mr. Velde, a quorum of the whole committee. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 381 TESTIMONY OF BART LYTTON, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT A. MOFFITT
