Mrs. ROSENBERG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spell your middle name R-e-i-s?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Rosenberg, will you state where you were born?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. In San Francisco, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your educational background?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, we moved to Los Angeles when I was very young, and all of my early education was in Los Angeles public schools, and I went to Hollywood High School in Hollywood. That is the extent of my educational background.
Mr. TAVENNER. By the way, are you represented by counsel?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes; I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you desire to confer with them, you may do so at any time. -Mrs. ROSENBERG. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. How have you been employed, 
Mrs. Rosenberg, during the period in which you were engaged in professional work?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, originally, about 1933 or 1934, I was employed by Fox as a reader, and then in 1935 and 1936 I was in New York representing a motion-picture agency by the name of Smal Landau, and I went back to Hollywood and worked for Warner Bros. as a reader in 1937 and part of 1938, when I quit my job to get married. Then I resumed working in 1940 for Paramount as a special reader.
Mr. TAVENNER. You began that assignment when?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. 1940 at Paramount?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Paramount. And then I became head of the reading department at Paramount, and then I became assistant story editor at Paramount.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you become the story editor at Paramount?
Mr. ROSENBERG. Well, I imagine it was about-it must have been around 1942. I must have been there 2 years before I became one of the story editors. I was assistant to a man called Bill Dozier at Paramount. Then I stayed at Paramount until 1945, when I asked to be released from my contract, and I went to a motion-picture agency by the name of Berg-Allen Berg. There I became head of their literary department, where I was until 1949, in February. And I haven't worked since. I have been a wife and mother.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you became a member of the Hollywood group, we may say, when you returned from New York about 1937? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time you returned from New York, was there an organization in Hollywood by the name of the Joint AntiFascist Refugee Committee?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I believe there was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there also an organization known as the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes; there was. Of that I am sure.  INDUSTRY 285 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever a member of these organizations? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. No; not to my knowledge. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend their meetings ? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes; I did, their public meetings. Since I was not a member of the organization, I didn't attend any of the board meetings or committee meetings, but I did go to their public meetings; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you interested in the particular programs of those groups? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I was very interested; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of your interest?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, during the Spanish Civil War I had a very strong feeling for the Loyalists, and I was interested in hearing the point of view of any organization or finding out any information that I could regarding the Loyalist fight. As far as the Anti-Nazi League is concerned, I felt that it was terribly important at that time to make the American people aware of the nature of the fascism in Germany and the menace to peace and people over the world.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you follow up your interest in the Anti- Nazi League by becoming interested in any other organization which seemed to make its cause the same cause of the Anti-Nazi League?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, as a matter of fact, I did. I had gone to a number of meetings of the Anti-Nazi League or an organizationI don't remember the name of it. I think it might have been called the Motion Picture Artists Committee, which people like Bob Montgomery and Frecdie March and Melvyn Douglas were associated with for Spain. I .was also very interested in the reelection of Roosevelt and in the continuation of his policies at that time. I met a woman who was known to me then as Madelaine Ruthven.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. R-u-t-h-v-e-n. And she told me that she was a member of the Communist Party, and she explained to me that the Communist Party-which was something I already understoodthat the Communist Party was backing the Loyalists in Spain. The Communist Party was very active in support of Roosevelt, and the Communist Party was the most militant organization in the United States in terms of their opposition to Hitler in Germany, and in terms of educating the American people to this. And she told me that since I already believed in these things, which I did, and that the Communist Party was the most effective organization to work for and against those things I believed in, that she thought I should join it, because she felt it was perfectly ridiculous for someone to have these strong beliefs and not do anything positive about them, that one must make a positive step. This seemed perfectly reasonable to me, and I did join the Communist Party in 1938. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You joined after your conversation with the per- son you just referred to- 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). As Madelaine Ruthven? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what position she held within the Communist Party? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. NO.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or what function'she performed? 286 INDUSTRY 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I am not absolutely, sure. She was some sort of an executive of the party. That I understood. But the party structure has never been terribly clear to me, so I am not absolutely sure. I think she might have been what is known or what was known at that time as an organizational secretary, but I am not sure. I think that is probably what she was, sort of in general charge of personnel and detail.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, as a result of her invitation to you to unite with the party, were you received into the party and assigned to a cell or group of the party ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. I went to a meeting, the first meeting I ever attended, where a man by the name of John Howard Lawson was in charge of the meeting, and I understood that he was also in charge of the Hollywood group of the Communist Party. And I was assigned to a group of people. I mean I was assigned to meet with a group of people, with whom I did meet. I must qualify this by saying that I only met with them for a while, because this was in 1938, and in July-I don't know what month this was. It was probably early in 1938-but in July of 1938 I got married to a man called Irving Reis, who was not then nor to my knowledge has he ever become a member of the Communist Party. And so when I got married to him I sort of became inactive. I was more interested in my marriage than I was in party activities, and for a long time I didn't go to any meetings nor did I even join any outside organizations during this period or before it. I had never been a member of any of these organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, will you tell us the names of the persons in the group of Communist Party members to which you were assigned when you first joined the party ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. As I remember it, there was a Frank TuttleFrank and Tania Tuttle. He was married to her at that time; he isn't now. Waldo Salt, Paul Jarrico.
Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Jarrico ? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Waldo Salt?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. He is the same Mr. Salt who testified here this morning, or were you present ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I wasn't present, but I assume that he is the same. Paul Jarrico.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you see the witness on the stand who immediately preceded you?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. IS it the same person? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed, please. 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Sam Ornitz.
Mr. TAVENNER. Sam Ornitz ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. O-r-n-i-t-z. Herbert Biberman, Dorothy Tree and her husband, Michael Uris, and a man called Francis Faragoh, F-a-r-a-g-o-h, who is a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the woman Madelaine Ruthven also attend the group meetings? , INDUSTRY 287 As a matter of fact, I should have mentioned her. I met often in her home. I left her out. She did attend. She was active.
Mr. TAVENNER. To whom did you pay your Communist Party dues at that particular time?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes; very often. 
Mr. ROSENBERG. At that time I believe I paid them to Madelaine Ruthven.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that you were only with that group a few months before you retired temporarily.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many meetings do you think you attended during that period ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Oh, I really couldn't say. I attended some meet- ings and then I got married, and for a while I was inactive, and then I began to go to meetings again.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did all of these persons whose names you have men- tioned attend one or more of those meetings with you ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Oh, yes; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long was it before you returned to the attend- ance of meetings?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. What happened was that in 1940, when I went to work for Paramount as a reader and eventually became assistant story editor, which put me in touch with most of the writers in Hollywood, since this was part of my job involved in stories and writers, when war was declared the following year, after war was declared by the United States, an organization was formed called the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization about 1942. I think this must have been early in '42. And I undertook an assignment for this organization which was directly in sympathy with the organization, and so was I, not only with the Government at that time but with the Communist Party at that time. There was no conflict in my mind in terms of the attitudes of the party toward the war effort and the attitudes of the Government toward the war effort. There was no conflict at all. There was a no-strike clause. There was every interest in the party in seeing that people did as much work as possible for the war effort. So I joined this organization in a capacity in which I felt I could be of most value, which was to-I was in, charge of getting all the material, not all the material but a good deal of the material written for those stars who went on camp tours and hospital tours in this country and overseas. This was mostly comedy material, as you probably remember, and I was a kind of liaison between the Writers' Mobilization and two organizations, one called the Victory Committee, which was the producers organization for such activities, headed by Eddie Manix, Charlie Feldman, Kenneth Thompson-all very conservative men, I hasten to add-and the USO Camp Shows organization, headed by a man named Abe Lastfogel, who was in charge of the William Morris office. And what they would do was they would say Olivia De Haviland was to go on a camp tour in this country. "Would you get some kind of little routine worked up for her?" I would call a writer and I would get the writer together with De Haviland, and we would discuss what was best suited to her personality and her type of talent, and something would be written for her. It would be given directly to either USO Camp Shows or to the Victory Committee, and that would be the end of it. 81595-51-pt. 1-10 Off she would go. 288 INDUSTRY There were hundreds and hundreds of actors and actresses who entertained during the war, as you know, and there had to be a great deal of material written, and I was in charge of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now that was immediately after this country be- came involved in the war?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time were you attending Communist Party meetings ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I did attend some during that time; yes. I attended a few, simply because I felt that since I was doing what I could for the war effort, and since that thing was the primary issue in the party at the time, there wasn't any particular reason for me to go to all those mobilization meetings, that I had to go to meet with all those people that I had to meet with, and also go to Communist Party meetings where they were discussing the same things, as far as I was concerned. So I attended meetings, but not very many.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were those meetings of the same group that you had formerly been assigned to or a different group ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. No; they were different people than during the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, tell us about your assignment to the second group and when that occurred.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, I don't -exactly remember, Mr. Tavenner, when it occurred, but was probably sometime around 1941, and it was in connection with the Writers' Mobilization work, because most of the people in the group had some connection with the mobilization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a minute. You say, "most of the people in the group"?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What group ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. In the second group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of the Communist Party?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Had some connection with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. Tell us who were in this second group and, in giving us the names of them, state also whether or not they were connected with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and if you can recall, in what capacity.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, the first one that comes to my mind, the most natural one, of course, is Robert Rossen, who was the second chairman of the mobilization. There was Abe Polonsky. I don't know that he had any special job in the mobilization. He did a good deal of work. He is a very brilliant writer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Abe Polonsky?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes; Polonsky. There was Albert Maltz. I don't remember whether Maltz worked in the moblization or not, but I remember him in the meetings.. There was Lester Cole. There was Richard Collins. There was a man named Carleton Moss, who made a film for the Capra unit, an excellent film, as a matter of fact, on the Negro soldier in the war effort-the Army unit known as the Capra unit, headed by Frank Capra. Gordon Kahn. I don't remember  289 whether Kahn was active in the mobilization or not, but I remember him in these meetings. The point is, you see, it is difficult for me to remember about the mobilization. The mobilization was an organization made up of all officially recognized writers' groups in the industry, which meant that every writer in the industry was a member of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization and was working for them, and the mobilization did work for the OWI, for the Navy, for the Army. They did propaganda work for all the Government agencies engaged in this type of work. And I am trying to restrict now my memory to those people I knew as Communists, and I think those are the only ones that I can mention.
Mr. TAVENNER. Those are the only ones ? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Those are the only ones I know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were members of your cell and who were also members of the Writers' Mobilization ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Those are the people that I saw in Communist meetings; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you if you knew an individual by the name of Edward Biberman.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes; I did. I was in.meetings with him. He was not a writer, and as far I know had no connection with the mobilization. He was an artist, painter. He is Herbert Biberman's brother.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, can you recall the name of any other person who was a member of this group who was not connected with the Writers' Mobilization ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. The only other person I can remember that might have been a member of this group-and I don't hesitate to say that I knew him as a Communist. It was just simply in one group I knew him, and I think this is not terribly important-is a man by the name of George Willner, who was an agent, a literary agent, with a company called Nat Goldstone.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you spell t7 kat name ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. W-i-l-l-n-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall his first name?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. George. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with these individuals prior to your being assigned to the group with them ? 
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Some of them, yes; because of my work in the mobilization, and some of them I had simply known as writers in the industry. industry. After all, I was in contact with most of the writers in the 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like you to state to the committee just what transpired at the meetings in as general a way, with such particulars as you can recall, relating to any things that would indicate the type of control that the Communist Party had over its members.
Mrs. RosENBERG. Well, at that time, Mr. Tavenner, the control was more over its members in terms of general attitude than it was on any issue of politics, because, as I have said before, there was no conflict between the people who were in the party and the people who were not in the party as to the issues of the day.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are speaking now of the war period? 290 ' INDUSTRY I am talking of the war period, between '41 and '44. There was, however, a general attitude on the part of the more vocal people in the party to hand down decisions which were never really discussed. In other words, the discussions which were held would end pretty much as they started, and it took me a long time, I am afraid, to finally understand that this was the type of discipline that was entirely, in my opinion, undemocratic and which I could not uphold or agree with, either in its principle or in its policies. For instance, I was one of the people who was confused and bewildered and somewhat shocked in 1939 by the Nazi-Soviet Pact. I had joined the party on the basis of being anti-Hitler. Naturally, this came somewhat as a suprise to me, and it was explained to me that this was an expedient measure on the part of the Soviet Union to gain time; that there was never a question in their mind but what they were going to fight the Germans. It was just a question of gaining time. I accepted this. There were other switches of this sort, as you are all well aware,
Mrs. ROSENBERG. from time to time; and I found it more and more difficult to accept, simply because if you are thinking independently it is very difficult to go from one opinion to another quite so quickly. Finally in 1944 or '45, I think it was, the Duclos letter was issued. This was another shock to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. D-u-c-l-o-s?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. Duclos was a French Communist who didn't question but who challenged the policy of the American Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was his challenge that was accepted as the proper Communist Party line to be adopted in this country ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. That's right. Now one of the things-and it will probably sound naive-that disturbed me most, since I really had no really great political understanding of these things-one of the things that disturbed me most was that here was a group of people who had felt that Earl Browder was a very great and important man one minute, and after the Duclos letter they didn't say, "Here is a man who has made a mistake. We cannot any longer accept his leadership, so we will replace him," in what would seem to me to be legiti- mate terms if that is the way they felt. They turned one minute from thinking this was a very great man to the next minute of tearing him limb from limb and practically crucifying him. This was the kind of thing I couldn't understand. So finally I felt that it was about time in my life that I thought for myself, and I realized that in the party this is not really possible. I would like to illustrate this with what is to me a particularly pertinent quotation. There is an Italian by the name of Ignazio Silone, who is a very great Italian novelist, who was an important party member up until around 1929 or 1930, who was in fact a member of the Comintern with Togliatti, who is presently the head of the Communist Party in Italy. Silone left the party in 1929 or 1930, and I recently read a statement of his on why he was in it and why he was out of it, and he said this. He said that in the Communist Party there is no such a thing as an adversary in good faith; that even with a man of the stature of Lenin, whom Silone obviously considered a man of great stature, one could not really disagree with any reasonable intelligent terms. The minute you disagree they begin to call  291 you names, and this is a form of intimidation, this is a form of fear, and people have a dreadful desire to belong once they belong to something. And this is in my opinion a very bad and a very dangerous policy of any organization. I consider it one of the most dangerous policies of the Communist Party-that there is no really independent thinking among the rank and file. This was one of the most decisive reasons for my leaving, outside of the fact that, when I left in 1945, I not only disagreed with the procedure in the party but I disagreed with their policy. (Representative Francis E. Walter entered the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, will you tell the committee just what induced you to leave the party and how you left it ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well I have already told the committee to the best of my ability what induced me to leave. I felt that I could no longer belong to an organization which I had joined for what seemed to me the highest motives, and then I found out that-I had always believed that if an organization was anti-Fascist in the best possible sense that it must naturally then be prodemocratic in the best possible sense, and when I found out that it was not I was naturally disenchanted, shall we say. I was no longer interested.
Mr. TAVENNER. How did you go about terminating your relationship with the party ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well I hadn't been going to meetings for a long time. I had been going to meetings irregularly during the war, not for reasons of politics but simply because I was so busy with war work; and after that I just began to skip meetings one after another around 1944, and I asked for my release from Paramount in 1945my release from my contract. 
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you recall when that was in 1945 ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. It must have been around August. I had a couple of years to go on my Paramount contract, but I felt that I had gone as far as I could go in the organization, because it isn't really possible for a woman to be a front-office executive in a major studio, and I felt that I would rather be in an agency where there is really no discrimination against women, where a woman can be as important an agent as a man. So I left Paramount and went to an agency called Berg, Allen Berg, which I have mentioned before, in 1945. I must have gone there around September, and not very long after I went, a man whom I had never met, whom I had never seen, came to see me, a party functionary by the name of John Stapp. He asked me why I had not been coming to meetings for so very long and what I intended to do about it, and I told him I intended to get out, that I didn't intend to come to meetings at all any more; and that was the end of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall about how long that was after you took the employment with the agency ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. It must have been a very short time, I think. Probably not more than a month.
Mr. TAVENNER. When do you consider you had actually withdrawn from the party ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, spiritually I had withdrawn before that; but I had not actually said so to them. I simply hadn't gone to meetings. 292 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to go back.a little and ask you more detailed questions about your experience while in the party. You have spoken of the procedure in the meetings and the imparting of the Communist Party line to the group. Now, how was that line imparted ? Were there ever occasions when high functionaries of the party addressed your group ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. For one thing, I remember very early in my experience in the Communist Party around 19-you will have a record of this date. I wouldn't, because I didn't keep records. About 1939, it must have been, a man called Carl Winter, who was a party functionary from New York as I understood it, a member of the central committee, came out and addressed a meeting at which I was on party matters. I don't actually remember the issues that were discussed at that time. I simply remember that I did meet. him at that meeting. I never saw him again.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any others whose names you can recall?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, John Howard Lawson very often would come to the meetings, even if he were not a member of the particular group, in order to explain certain problems that had arisen, of certain projects which they felt were important.
Mr. TAVENNER. What in your opinion was the thing in Hollywood which the Communist Party was really after?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, I think there were two things, mainly. I think the first one was that they felt that by getting important writers, actors, producers, and so forth, important people in the motion-picture industry who were well known to most people in the country, or at least whose names are seen on screens all over-I think that they felt that by getting the complete sympathy and support and activity of these people that they themselves would gain prestige in the country. I also think that because these people earned large sums of money they probably felt that it would be a very important'thing to be able to get money, because they solicited funds all the time. They asked for money all the time, not only in terms of dues but for special things. If the New Masses were in trouble, which it seemed to be constantly, they were asking for money, and I think that probably the Communist Party in Hollywood was able to give them quite a good deal. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What about your own party dues?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. At the time I was in the party I was working at Paramount. I wasn't making a great deal of money, and I didn't pay much in dues. Originally when I joined the party I was a reader. I was making very little money, and I paid very little amount, and for a while I didn't pay any, because I had no money of my own and my husband, not being a member of the party, was not particularly interested in supporting it. He didn't disagree with those anti-Hitler, pro-Roosevelt, anti-Franco sympathies of mine, but he was not interested in the Communist Party. So I couldn't honestly ask him to support it. When I went to work for Paramount I earned a little more money, but it never was much at any time. When I went to Berg-Allen Berg I wasn't a member of the party any longer.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you virtually withdrew from the party at the time
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes.  INDUSTRY 293 
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). That you went to your new employ- ment?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, at the time that you were in Paramount and while you were in the Communist Party, did you meet a person by the name of Bea Winters ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Oh, yes. Bea Winters was hired at Paramount, not by me, but she was hired at Paramount. She had been a secretary in the industry for a long time, an executive secretary, with an excellent reputation, and she was hired in the story department. Her job was to reorganize the story files, which were badly in need of reorganization at that time, and she did a really magnificent job of it. When I was head of the reading department I was automatically in charge of those story files for a while, and consequently she and I worked together. She was my secretary. When I became assistant story editor she was no longer my secretary. When I left Paramount to go to Berg-Allen Berg, Berg-Allen Berg had not for a long time had an official story department. They wanted to establish one again. They had writers, but they didn't have a real story department, and I felt that their files were badly in need of reorganization. The first person I thought of was Bea Winters, because she was awfully good at this. She was also a good secretary and I hired her. I read the testimony of Sterling Hayden saying that Bea Winters had recruited him into the party. Now, during this time she was my secretary at Berg-Allen Berg I did not know of her affiliation with the Communist Party. I had never seen her in a meeting. I did know, however, of her leftist sympathies, because this was the sort of thing that was discussed in general, and she felt the same way as a lot of other people I knew, no more, no less. However, when I hired her at Berg-Allen Berg it was on the basis of merit rather than her political opinions. She left. She must have worked for me for about a year and a half there, or so; and then she left to retire because she didn't want to work any more at that time. She is working again now. I, however, had no knowledge of Sterling Hayden's membership in the Communist Party. As a matter of fact, I didn't know about Larry Parks either. It was interesting, because I was story editor at BergAllen Berg, and they were both clients. I couldn't have been more surprised. But of course I was out of the party then.
Mr. TAVENNER. While you were in the party and while working for Paramount in charge of the reading department, were you in a position where you could, if you chose, favor any particular writer's work in the work that you did ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Not as head of the reading department, but I was in a position of some influence when I was assistant story editor. However, there are several things that have to be considered in this light. One is that I had a very good reputation as a story editor, and I was very jealous of that reputation, and if I were to recommend writers because I thought their politics were similar to mine and they didn't turn out good scripts, I would not only not have a good job, but I would not have a good reputation. Another thing was that in no major studio is it possible for anyone in such a position to really exercise very much influence, because, for 294 instance, in Paramount, Y. Frank Freeman was the head of the studio, and at the time I worked there Mr. Da Silva was under him, and also
Mr. Ginsberg.
Mr. TAVENNER. What Da Silva?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Buddy Da Silva. He has since died. And Henry Ginsberg after him. And there are producers; there are directors; there were two front office executives above me. There was Mr. Freeman, and there was Mr. Ginsberg, all of whom were very concerned about what writers were hired and what stories were bought and knew as much as I did about these things. My main interest was in doing a good job, and there was no reason for me to hire people for political reasons. I was doing a war job, which I felt was enough for the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Actually, during the period of the war when the Communist Party was interested in promoting the war effort, there was comparatively little occasion for the exercise of preference ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. There was no occasion for it. There was really no occasion for it. I haven't got the records, but the committee could certainly get them, I am sure, from Paramount. If you will go over the list of writers who were hired and who worked at Paramount during that time, you will find no preponderance at all of "left" people. They were hired on the basis of could they fill the assignment or couldn't they. We made such pictures as Wake Island, The Story of Dr. Wassel, Double Indemnity, Lost Weekend. These were pictures which might be considered propaganda, but hardly subversive. 
Mr. TAVENNER. After your employment with Berg-Allen Berg, you were then in a position of greater importance and greater responsibility, were you not ? ,
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes, I was; and I represented writers of every possible political color. I represented people like Sinclair Lewis, James Hilton, Richard Llewellyn, Clement Dane, Laura Hobson. I sold books such as Belvedere, which was made into a Clifton Webb picture called Sitting Pretty, and subsequently into several sequels; a book called East River, by Scholom Asch, and I sold Gentlemen's Agreement to Zanuck. I was very proud again of the fact that I had a reputation as an agent, which was unique in the sense that I never represented anybody I didn't believe had talent, and many people came to me whom I refused to represent. I don't feel that it is my place to explain this to you, but I think if you will check with other people in the industry you can find this out for yourselves.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have named a number of individuals there as persons for whom you have sold pictures or writings.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVEiNER. Were any of those persons whose names you have mentioned members of the Communist Party?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Oh, no; I don't believe so. Certainly not to my knowledge, and I would be very surprised to hear it. I also represented Dalton Trumbo, who had been a client of BergAllen Berg's for many years before I came there, as was, for instance Ayn Rand. They represented anybody they felt was talented and. that they could do a job with. My association with Dalton at Berg- COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Allen Berg was entirely professional. 295 He had a contract at that time at Metro, and there was actually very little to do for him. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The point that I want for the committee is whether or not at any time, even after you left the Communist Party, you knowingly favored any Communist writer in the promotion of his particular writing or script.
Mr. ROSENBERG. Not to my knowledge. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter, any questions?
Mr. WALTER. No questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DoYLE. No, I think not, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Velde? 
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned that the Communist Party, line repre- sented controlled thinking, or words to that effect. In your opinion, who controlled the Communist Party line? How did you get the Communist Party line ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, the people naturally-this is partly a ques- tion of leadership and partly a question of personality, because a man like Herbert Biberman, who was not necessarily to my knowledge in any high position of leadership, talked a great deal; and when a man talks a great deal and with a certain eloquence he can control other people. But aside from that it was obvious to me that the person who really did most of the thinking or of the deciding for the group was John Howard Lawson.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Kearney? KEARNEY. I haven't any questions. WooD. Mr. Potter? PorTER. Mrs. Rosenberg, when you were working with writers ,preparing the scripts for various USO personalities, you stated that it was difficult to actually influence the script; is that true?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, they weren't really scripts, you see. They were just little comedy sketches. It wasn't even a question of influence. It was a question of what was the sort of thing that Ingrid Bergman could best do to entertain soldiers. Could she dance or sing or could she recite a poem? It was that sort of thing. It was a question of the capacity and personality of the stars.
Mr. PorrER. Was any effort made by Communist leaders in an effort to have you influence it? You said it wasn't done, but I am wondering if that was ever suggested. Was it brought to your attention that this would be a good thing to do?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. No. I must honestly tell you, Mr. Potter, that this was never done. Either I was in a field where it didn't seem advisable or, as Mr. Tavenner has helped me explain, this was in a period where there was no conflict between the poliitcal policies of the party and of the Government.
Mr. PorTER. For my own information, what is a reader ?
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Well, a reader is somebody who takes a novel, whether it is in galley form or an original story written for the screen, reads it and does a synopsis of it, ranging anywhere from 1 page to 50 pages, for those people who are in executive charge of the studio who haven't time to read the whole thing, because there are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of such books and stories and plays sub- 296 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY mitted monthly to studios. The people in charge simply haven't the time to read everything themselves, and they need someone to boil it down for them, to say to them, "This is something you should look into," or "Don't bother about this."
Mr. POTTER. I will say that you brought a great deal of charm to our committee.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Thank you, Mr. Potter.
Mr. WOOD. I wish to express on behalf of the committee our deep appreciation for your coming here and the very frank manner in which you have answered the questions which were asked you. Unless there is some reason why she should be retained, we will excuse the witness.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I have a wire which I don't think should necessarily be introduced into the record, but it rather adroitly represents the attitude of some of my friends in Hollywood about my political activities, and I will leave it to the discretion of the counsel as to whether he wants to read it or not. It comes from a man called Nunnally Johnson, who is a producer and writer at Fox.
Mr. WooD. Suppose you leave it.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Let the counsel decide.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will certainly read it, Mr. Chairman, perhaps to save the witness a little embarrassment:
Mrs. META ROSENBERG, Statler Hotel, Washington, D. C.: I trust this will convince you that politics is no business for a fetching girl. Politics is for flat-chested girls. [Laughter.] 
Mr. WOOD. Thank you very much. You may be excused. (Witness excused.) 
Mr. TAVENNER. Victor Killian. 
Mr. WOOD. You do solemnly swear the testimony you give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. KILLIAN. I do. TESTIMONY OF VICTOR KILLIAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT W. KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS
