Mr. LEES. Robert Lees.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented here by counsel?
Mr. LEES. Yes; I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify themselves for the record ?
Mr. KENNY. Robert W. Kenny, Los Angeles.
Mr. MARGOLIS. Ben Margolis, Los Angeles. 
Mr. LEES. I happen to have a statement here I would like to intro- duce at this time if I may.
Mr. WOOD. When counsel has finished his examination, we will be glad for you to file any statement with the clerk for the record.
Mr. LEES. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Lees, will you state when and where you were born, please, sir ?
Mr. LEES. I was born in San Francisco, July 10, 1912.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present place of residence?
Mr. LEES. Los Angeles. 742 Schumacher Drive, Los Angeles 48.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation ?
Mr. LEES. I am a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How. long have you lived in California ?
Mr. LEES. All my life.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been engaged in the practice of your pro- fession elsewhere or solely in California ?
Mr. LEES. Only once, sir, I believe I would say was outside of Cali- fornia, when I came to Washington to write a film for General Sommervell called Substitution and Conversion during the war. It was a film that was necessary for conservation of critical materials at the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your educational background and training ?
Mr. LEES. I was in grammar school in San Francisco, Lowell High School, San Francisco. I came to Los Angeles and started at U. C. L. A., and unfortunately there was a depression on at the time and I couldn't finish my freshman year, and that's the conclusion of my education formally.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a brief account of your employment record? 
Mr. LEES. I started writing--well, let me put it this way: I started acting in an extra capacity, bit capacity, for the years 1930 to 1934. Starting in 1934 1 became a writer at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, where I did some 55, roughly, short films-Robert Benchley, Pete Smith, Crime Doesn't Pay. Quite a few shorts, two of which won Academy Awards at the time. Then I started writing features. And they were primarily comedies. There was one, No Time for Love, with Fred MacMurray, Claudette Colbert.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that? 
Mr. LEES. It's going to be very difficult for me to get exact dates on these things. I think that roughly was about 1942 I believe, 1941,  INDUSTRY 195 something like that. I can't really recall exactly the dates of these films. But then I worked at Universal-International and did quite a few films for them, mostly Abbott and Costello comedies; I think about live or six of them. Hold That Ghost, Meet Frankenstein, the present one, Meet the Invisible Man, Widow of Wagon's Gap. I can't recall them. Must have been five or six of those.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the last production that you worked on? 
Mr. LEES. The last production released ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. LEES. Or the last employment?
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us say the last employment.
Mr. LEES. The last employment I had was at Republic Studios where I was employed to write a picture for Judy Canova.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that.
Mr. LEES. I don't quite know, but it was about-I would think about a week or two before I received my subpena, and I remember attributing the fact that I was suddenly let go to the fact that maybe my apearance before this committee was responsible.
Mr. WooD. You were just asked when it was.
Mr. LiES. Well, I couldn't understand why I was not working in the middle of the assignment was all. I wanted to explain the reason,
Mr. Wood, as I understand it. 
Mr. WooD. Well, now, will you now answer the question when it was? 
Mr. LEES. I say about 3 or 4 weeks before-oh-I received my sub- pena. It was the beginning of this year sometime.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your last employment prior to that ?
Mr. LEES. My last employment prior to that, at Universal-Inter- national Studios where I was working on a picture for Jimmy Durante and Donald O'Connor.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what was the last production that you worked on?
Mr. LEES. The last production was The Real McCoy for Abbott and Costello, which hasn't been released, and the one before that which is now playing the theaters is Meet the Invisible Man. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And what was the. date of your work on those productions ? 
Mr. LEES. It's going to be very difficult.
Mr. TAVENNER. I mean the date of your employment let us say.
Mr. LEES. Well, it's hard for me to say this, for the simple reason that some of these pictures have been written I would say maybe a year before they were released. The latter part of 1950 1 was working on the Jimmy Durante-Donald O'Connor film. The Abbott and Costello film I guess was at the beginning of that year approximately, 1950.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances and the details of your employment for those two pictures, The Real McCoy and-what was the name of the other one?
Mr. LEES. Meet the Invisible Man. The circumstances I- believe are similar to the circumstances of any writer in Hollywood who's employed. You're called up by your agent and told to go out to the 81595-51-pt. 1--10 196 INDUSTRY studio, that you have a job. If you're not called by your agent, you're not working.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was your agent?
Mr. LEES. My agent is the Sam Jaffe Agency. It's on Sunset Boulevard. I don't know the exact address. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you confer with your employer before accept- ing the employment, or was that done entirely through your agent?
Mr. LEES. No; sometimes there would be a discussion as to the story and whether or not we felt like-whether I felt the story could be done or not.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was prior to your employment?
Mr. LEES. Sometimes. Usually you would have the script to examine to see whether you felt suitable as a writer or that you liked the story or that you thought you could do the job. If you felt that you could and the studio wanted to hire you, you said that you could and you were hired.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you represented by any other agency other than the one you have mentioned ?
Mr. LEES. I was represented by two other agencies in the time that I have been working in films. I was represented for a great number of years by the Paul Kohner Agency. I was represented a short time
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state the.name again, please?
Mr. LEES. Paul Kohner, K-o-h-n-e-r. The Paul Kohner Agency. And for a short time with the Nat Goldstone Agency.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was a person by the name of George Wilmer your personal agent in connectionMr. LEES. He was the agent in charge of writers for Nat Goldstone, and on that basis he represented me along with others in the agency who were assistants in the literary department.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has that representation continued on to the present time ?
Mr. LEES. That representation was terminated. I don't know exactly what day it was or what date it was, but I believe I have been with the Jaffe Agency for over 2 years or something like that. Two years I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the reason for the termination of your relationship?
Mr. LEES. I felt, as when I left Mr. Kohner, that I was not getting the story sales and the jobs at the time. Whether it was the agent's fault or whether it was the fact the industry was in a slump because of the world situation some 2 years back-it's picked up since. I left anyhow and have been working with the Sam Jaffe Agency. I have been represented, rather, by the Sam Jaffe Agency.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did others leave that agency at the same time that you did ?
Mr. LEES. I don't know who left or who didn't leave, but there has been a great number of circulations among agents and their clients. You stay with an agency for a while, and if you don't like the jobs you're getting or if you don't think you're getting jobs, you change. You change for reasons that maybe a new agency would want to make an impression with you and get you a job because you're fresh, and you might feel like you're an old "has been" if you have been  197 with an agency too long. There's a constant movement around. Some are satisfied for a while with their agents, but I have known writers to leave one agency and go to two or three others and come back to the original one.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of the practice of conferring with officials of your various employers about the storyMr. LEES. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). Prior to your employment- 
Mr. LEES. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. (continuing). Which is a reasonable and natural thing.
Mr. LEES. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who are some of those with whom you have conferred ?
Mr. LEES. Robert Arthur has been the producer of quite a few of the Abbott and Costello's I have worked on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of what movie company ?
Mr. LEES. At Universal-International.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. Will you name others?
Mr. LEES. Let me see. Sidney Pickert was the producer at Republic on our last picture-my last picture. I can't-I worked for Jack Chertok originally in Metro-Goldwyn-Mlayer shorts department.
Mr. TAVENNER.Will you spell that, please?
Mr. LEES. C-h-e-r-t-o-k, I believe, is the spelling. Let's see. My mind has suddenly gone blank. I can't recall any other producers, but I know there are quite a few. I'm trying to think of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. I'm not asking for the names of producers generally. I'm asking for those with whom you had discussions of your script and the story.
Mr. LEES. Oh, that's very hard to say in the sense that I don't know what you'd call discussions. Sometimes there would be no discussion. The script would be taken to me by the agent. I'd say I would want to go to work on this. And, if the studio had already made up its mind that I was the man to write the film, the job was done and the discussions took place after I was hired. There have been many interviews I have gone on in which no one has been hired because of a feeling of mutual dissatisfaction perhaps with story and concepts.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have there been any instances in which there was refusal for other reasons?
Mr. LEES. I don't know what you mean by "other reasons."
Mr. TAVENNER. Reasons other than story concept.
Mr. LEES. Not particularly that I know of. There might have been reasons of maybe. a personality problem, but that's whether the producer felt he could get along with you. That might be a reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. In any of the instances in which you were not employed, were you questioned about your affiliations with the Communist Party or any Communist-front organizations? That is, organizations which had been cited by the Attorney General of the United States or this committee or other organizations, Government organizations ?
Mr. LEES. Was I questioned?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. LEES. One moment, please. 198 INDUSTRY I wanted to be sure about my legal ground on this. The reasonthere has been no question of political affiliations in terms of my employment that I have discussed or have been asked to discuss by any of the people I have worked for. Even up to the very last time I was hired, the general concept seemed to be that a man was hired on his ability as a writer and not on any kind of political affiliations he might have, and simply as to whether he could do the job or not do the job.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were employed by Universal and various of the other groups, who within those groups were actually responsible for your employment ?
Mr. LEES. I really don't know how the ladder of studio officialdom works, whether the individual producer could make the decision or whether the story department could make the decision or whether it had to travel all the way up to Mr. Yates or whoever it might be who was in charge of the studio. I never quite know where these decisions come from. I believe that most producers have an autonomy to hire within their own story problems, their stories they have been assigned to.
Mr. TAVENNER. With whom did you deal?
Mr. LEES. Oh, sometimes with the story editor and mostly with the producer directly in charge of that production. And sometimes, well, naturally, after you have been at work on a picture, you do talk with the director; you do talk with the executive producer, and sometimes you might even have conferences, I have heard, with the head of the studio.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have an associate writer or partner ?
Mr. LEES. I think that's a matter of public record, the associate that I have worked with. I have been a member of a team for a great number of years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, who's on the team?
Mr. LEES. I think you could find that out very simply by consulting the public records. It's on the screen and so forth and so on.
Mr. WooD. Well, do you know ? You know who it is; don't you?
Mr. LEES. Well, I just simply say that this is something that the committee is asking me about which, as I said, is a matter of public record, and I think that the committee could find out very simply by consulting those records. It probably knows by consulting those records already. I'm curious as toMr. WOOD. You're asked to name them.
Mr. LEES. What's that?
Mr. WooD. You're asked who they were. Do you know ?
Mr. LEES. I say that this is a matter of public record. I know who I collaborated with.
Mr. WooD. Well, would you mind telling the committee? I don't know. 
Mr. LEES. Is there any particular reason in regard to this question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. A very definite reason.
Mr. LEES. Could you clarify that ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No. I'm asking you to answer the question.
Mr. LEES. On this question I'd like to first give you my reasons why I might be claiming this privilege at a future date, and I think the ground should be put in the record. I'm claiming the right not to answer that question on the grounds of the first amendment, which COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 199 I believe guarantees freedom of belief and expression, and the fifth amendment, which says that a man is not required to testify against himself. And for this reason I decline or do not wish to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you contend that it might tend to' incriminate you to state before this committee who are engaged in the writing profession with you ?
Mr. LEES. Well, I do know this: That there are a great number of organizations that this committee has deemed to be subversive, and my connections with any individual that can be connected with these organizations can tend to incriminate me, and for this reason I have declined to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. You didn't hesitate to answer as to the names of producers and various other persons with whom you had conferred in connection with the employment for the writing which you have done. I can't understand why you claim that to name the individuals who assisted you in the writing might tend to incriminate you.
Mr. LEES. Well, I believe this is a problem that is up to me as an individual to decide what will incriminate me and what won't, and I so decide at this moment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you have your counsel to advise you, but it is certainly outside the law, at least in my personal opinion.
Mr. LEES. What was that again?
Mr. TAVENNER. I said in my personal opinion it's certainly the weight of authority that a witness has not the sole right to determine that question; that it is a duty resting upon him to give information to the tribunal, in this case the committee, upon which it might base a decision as to whether or not you should be asked to answer the question. You have counsel there. I suggest that you confer with them.
Mr. LEES. WellMr. Tavenner, on the advice of counsel I stand on the reasons previously stated.
Mr. KEARNEY. Even though you previously stated this was a matter of public record?
Mr. LEES. Well, I saidMr. KEARNEY. Did you state that?
Mr. LEES. What's that, sir?
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you state that?
Mr. LEES. I stated-- 
Mr. KEARNEY. That the names of your associates were public record ?
Mr. LEES. That's true.
Mr. KEARNEY. And even with it being public record, you decline to answer on the ground that it might incriminate you ?
Mr. LEES. Well, that's true, because of the fact that this committee can make me testify against myself. This is something I refuse to do.
Mr. KEARNEY. How is that testifying against yourself ?
Mr. LEES. This is my feeling and the feeling of my counsel, and I have taken that advice and I have considered that as correct advice.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask the witness one question there, please?
Mr. Lees, will you direct my attention to where in the public record the names of all our associates with whom you associated may be found? 200 
Mr. LEES. You can consult the Well, I-what I was trying to point out, Mr. Doyle, was the fact that the committee could find this information, and that drawing this information from me-the right to find out what the reasons were-and I found out instead of definite reasons I had a feeling that this was something that required my standing on the fifth amendment, which I did. In talking that way previously, I merely want to say this was no information 'Ifelt that was being withheld from the committee's examination that way.
Mr. DOYLE. I can understand that; but now will you answer my question? You say it is a matter of public record. Where? As a member of this committee and fellow citizen, I am not familiar with where your name has appeared with your associates. Apparently your name appeared with your associate writers voluntarily on your part. You're rather proud of them, of the fact that you have made a great success in the profession, and I compliment you on your success. But where may I go if I want to find that record, please? You're not ashamed of the names of those associates, I presume, or they wouldn't be with your permission a matter of public record.
Mr. LEES. I do decline to answer it because I believe that's the same question I declined to answer before, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, very frankly, I figured it was an honest-to-God way, my question, to ask you a frank, open question. I'm not trying to trap you. But when you voluntarily allow your name to be associated in the public record on a film or script and tell us that it is a public record, why then you hesitate to tell us the names of those people or where the record is, I don't savvy.
Mr. LEES. Mr. Doyle, I think you just answered the question yourself. You said here the names can be found.
Mr. DoYLE. Well, where can they be found ?
Mr. LEES. You just said so.
Mr. DOYE. Where?
Mr. LEES. It's in the record at the moment, I believe, if you want to reexamine the question you just asked.
Mr. DOYLE. What record?
Mr. LEES. I think you answered the question.
Mr. DOYLE. I don't know any record. I haven't seen any record where your associates are listed.
Mr. LEES. Well, Mr. Doyle, I do feel that I have answered the question as clearly as I can, and I have stood on my privilege, and that's the best I can do.
Mr. KEARNEY. If you were given the names of those associates, would you admit them ?
Mr. LEES. I have claimed the privilege on that reason.
Mr. WOOD. Further .questions by counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. You state that you refuse to answer because to do so might tend to incriminate you. Do you mean that to answer the question as to who was your associate in writing any of these words, these productions, that to divulge that name might subject you to criminal prosecution of some kind?
Mr. LEES. I explained my reasons when I first declined to answer the question.  201 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you consulted or collaborated in any of your work with an individual by the name of Fred I. Rinaldo ?
Mr. LEES. I refuse to answer the question on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with an individual by the name of Elizabeth Leech?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Sometimes referred to as Elizabeth Leech Glenn? 
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that question on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Carl Winter?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previ- ously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Waldo Salt?
Mr. LEES. Waldo Salt happens to have traveled across the country with me. I know him as a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend a meeting in September of 1943 with Waldo Salt-rather, at the home of Waldo Salt-which was attended by Carl Winter and Elizabeth Leech ?
Mr.-LEES. I decline to answer that question on the ground previ- ously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Lees, the committee is in possession of informa- tion indicating that you were issued a registration card No. 47172 in 1944 in the Communist Party. In fact, it was-yes; I think that is right-for the year 1945. Were you issued that card, that registration card?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1944 were you the holder of Communist Political Association Book bearing number 4607?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that question for the same reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there issued to you a 1943 Communist Party book bearing number 25136 ?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer on the previous grounds, previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. There was testimony given here before this committee yesterday by Mr. Sterling Hayden. Do you know Mr. Hayden ?
Mr. LEES. I was in the room at the time Mr. Hayden made that statement, and I recall him saying something to the effect that he was a member of some sort of cell that contained back-lot workers, and the only white-collar worker he knew about was someone named Bernie. And I was surprised when he mentioned the name "Robert Lees" in this hearing. And the committee declined or didn't seem to bother to question further Mr. Sterling Hayden on that question.
Mr. WOOD. You are asked now if you know him.
Mr. LEES. What was that?
Mr. WOOD. The question was asked you by counsel if you know Sterling Hayden.
Mr. LEES. Well, I have seen him here at this meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. You know that wasn't my question. Are you acquainted with Sterling Hayden ?-not whether you have seen him.
Mr. LEES.' Well, on the basis of what happened here the other day and the name and the questions you're asking me, I decline to answer that question on the ground previously stated. 202 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you heard his testimony here. Is it true you were a member of the Communist Party ? Is that true or false?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, I have told you, on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that statement, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that statement, Mr. Tavenner, on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever attended meetings of any kind at the home of Abe Polonsky ?
Mr. LEES. What do you mean by "meetings" ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Meetings. Have you ever been at the home of Abe Polonsky when other persons were there ?
Mr. LEES. Well, since I had been in the hearing room the other day and heard the gentleman mentioned by Mr. Hayden among others, I decline to answer that question for the reason I have given in declining to answer anything about Mr. Hayden previously.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a subscriber to the Daily People's World, The Worker, and the Daily Worker, or any of them?
Mr. LEES. I believe that there is an addition to a list of organizations that have been deemed subversive quite a number of publications that are also deemed subversive. I believe these publications are on that list, and I refuse to answer that question on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you made contributions to any of the organizations which you have referred to as having been cited as Communist organizations, including specifically the American Youth for Democracy?
Mr. LEES. ThatMr. TAVENNER. As one of them ?
Mr. LEES. Mr. Tavenner, is that on your list?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; it has been cited.
Mr. LEES. If it's on your list, I decline to answer that. question for the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you made contributions to the People's Educational Center?
Mr. LEES. I see it's on your list, Mr. Tavenner, and I refuse to answer on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a delegate to the StateMr. WOOD. Just a moment, Mr. Tavenner. Other members of the committee may be better advised on this subject than I am. I didn't know that you had a list, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. LEES. This list that I am looking at here is prepared and re- leased by the Un-American Activities Committee, United States House of Representatives: Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications (and Appendix).
Mr. WOOD. You're talking about a list of Mr. Tavenner's.
Mr. LEES. Oh, I'm sorry. I included Mr. Tavenner in this com- mittee. I considered that it was the committee's list. I'm sorry.  203 
Mr. WooD. I believe the list to which you refer embodied in this publication issued on March 3, 1951, is the list of organizations that have been cited by the Attorney GeneralMr. LEES. Oh.
Mr. WOOD (continuing). As Communist-front organizations, as well as by this committee.
Mr. LEES. I'm talking about the list of organizations that is in this publication.
Mr. WooD. Is it because of the fact that it is listed there that you decline to answer the question ?
Mr. LEES. Well, it says "subversive" on the cover of the book. It calls these organizations subversive.
Mr. WooD. I asked you is it because it's listed there that you refuse to answer the question.
Mr. LEES. I refuse on the ground previously stated-on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the board of trustees of the People's Educational Center in Los Angeles ?
Mr. LEES. I refuse to answer on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a delegate to the State Conference on Civil Rights held in San Francisco on August 27 and 28, 1941, which was sponsored by the Northern California Civil Rights Council and the Southern California Branch of the National Federation for Constitutional Liberties ?
Mr. LEES. I understand that that organization is also on this long list of organizations, and I decline to answer for the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend a political rally of the Fifty-ninth Assembly District Victory Council of the Communist Club of the Los Angeles County Communist PartyMr. LEES. I decline to answer that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wait a minute. [Continuing] On March 12, 1944, at Marketville in Los Angeles ? 
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer that question for the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know a writer by the name of E. Y. Harburg?
Mr. LEES. Yes; I believe so.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you recall having attended a benefit party for the People's World at his home in 1944 . 
Mr. LEES. Since that paper is on the list and I have told you that it has been and my reasons for it, I decline to answer the question on the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. If the People's World had not been listed in the Guide to Subversive Organizations to which you referred, would you answer the question.
Mr. LEES. I would then seek the advice of my counsel under those circumstances, Mr. Tavenner. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall an instance in which the Joint Anti- Fascist Refugee Committee was denied the use of the hotel premises by the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles in February 19451
Mr. LEES. Would you repeat that again, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. I say do you recall the occurrence when the Ambassador Hotel at Los Angeles refused the use of its hotel premises to 204 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee? INDUSTRY If it's a question of re- freshing your recollection, I can tell you something more about that.
Mr. LEES. Well, since the organization you refer to is on that list, I decline to answer for grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you protest at the action of the Ambassador Hotel?
Mr. LEES. This is connected with the previous question, and I decline to answer for the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee ? 
Mr. LEES. There are so many organizations down here, Mr. Taven- ner, that make it impossible for any other answer but the fact that I decline to answer on the ground previously stated.
Mr. WooD. He's only asking you about the one.
Mr. LEES. What's that, Mr. Wood ? 
Mr. WooD. He was only asking you about the one. 
Mr. LEES. I know. It's down there. I looked through this.
Mr. WOOD. Well, confine your answer, please, specifically to the organization about which you were asked.
Mr. LEES. Yes, Mr. Wood. 
Mr. WOOD. Do you decline to answer as to that organization ?
Mr. LEES. I decline to answer as to that organization on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. LEES. The Screen Writers' Guild today has a 100 percent guild shop, and every writer who works in Hollywood is a member of the Screen Writers' Guild or almost all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then do I infer you are a member ?
Mr. LEES. I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been a member ?
Mr. LEES. I was a member of the Screen Writers' Guild, I guess, from almost the time that it was made a Screen Writers' Guild by the NLRB election which finally allowed many unions to come into being. I think that was in 1936 the Screen Writers' Guild was founded as it is today.
Mr. TAVENNER. You recall that a number of personalities in Holly- wood were subpenaed before this committee back in 1947. After that date were you a candidate for election to the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. LEES. I have been a candidate for the board for the Screen Writers' Guild on several occasions.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a candidate in 1948 ? 
Mr. LEES. I think-I might have been. I don't know whether that was the year I was nominated by the nominating committee of the Screen Writers' Guild, but I have been nominate., as I say, for the board of the Screen Writers' Guild on several occasions. It might very well have been in 1948 I was also nominated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you sought election to that board since 1947?
Mr. LEES. Since 1947 ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. LEES. I don't know. Actually what happens is the nominating committee puts your name up, and if you're willing to run you run, and if you're elected you're elected. I don't know if the nominating committee has had my name up since then or not. NISM 1 IN MOTION-PICTURE COMM1 
Mr. TAVENNER. INDUSTRY 205 Well, at least you have not been elected to the board since 1947; have you ?
Mr. LEES. No. I have never been elected to the board actually. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The Hollywood Writers' Mobilization was an or- ganization brought into being during the period of the war; was it not? 
Mr. LEES. Well, the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization is on that list, and I decline to answer further questions about that organization on the ground previously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU refuse to state what your connection was with that organization?
Mr. LEES. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds previously stated, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write a script on the subject of atomic energy for the Atomic Energy Commission of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization which was intended for a transcontinental radio program?
Mr. LEES. This is connected with the previous question concerning the organization, and I decline to answer for the ground previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. You decline to answer whether you prepared a script for that organization ?
Mr. LEES. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Actors' Laboratory Theater?
Mr. LEES. That organization is also listed, and I decline to answer for-the ground I previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe there was filed in the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of John Howard Lawson and Dalton Trumbo a brief in behalf of Alexander Meiklejohn and certain other persons as amicus curiae.-- Were you one of the persons in whose name this brief was filed ?
Mr. LEES. Will you repeat that question again ? An amicus curiae brief?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. LEES. I think, as I recall, I might have been. Will you repeat that question again, please, Mr. Tavenner? Amicus curiae brief to the Supreme Court?
Mr. TAVENNER. That's right.
Mr. LEES. That's right. I believe I did sign it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who sought your signature to that brief?
Mr. LEES. I actually don't recall who sought my signature to that brief. I know that it was about, and I was very anxious to ask the Supreme Court to render a decision in the case of. the Hollywood 10, which the Supreme Court has not done. And I feel that the questions of the first amendment that were involved in that case really should have been decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any Communist Party connection as far as you know with the movement to present that brief?
Mr. LEES. This question involves an organization which is on your list, and .I decline to answer the question on the grounds previously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Albert Maltz was one of the individuals who appeared before this committee in 1947 and was a defendant in a con- 206 tempt proceeding. After that time, namely, in 1949, were you the signer of a petition to have him elected to membership on the board of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. LEES. Yes. I signed that petition.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he elected? 
Mr. LEES. No; he was not that I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has the Screen Writers' Guild to your knowledge made an effort to remove not from membership but to curtail the activities of persons thought to be members of the Communist Party within its group ?
Mr. LEES. I don't know how, in what way, I could know about this, whether they have curtailed or tried to curtail. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not know ?
Mr. LEES. Not that I know of. I might say that there is a statement of policy in the Screen Writers' Guild which says that anyone can be a member of the Screen Writers' Guild without any ban because of race, creed, religion, political beliefs, something similar to the first amendment. Nobody is required to be anything but a writer to join the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has there at any time in the past been a group or groups within that organization which from your viewpoint were endeavoring to influence the action of that guild along Communist Party lines or in Communist Party interests ?
Mr. LEES. Well, the question that you have asked involves an organization on the list that I have before me here, and I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not by your reply mean to indicate that the Screen Writers' Guild has ever been listed as a Communist organization ?
Mr. LEES. I simply answered the question as you represented it, and I don't know what implication-can you repeat it ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, let us make certain as to what you mean, because I understood you to say you refused to answer because the organization appeared on the list of subversive organizations.
Mr. LEES. Oh, I see what you mean. No. The organization that you have mentioned along with the Screen Writers' Guild in the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, by reason of my reference to the Communist PartyMr. LEES. That's
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). You would not answer ?
Mr. LEES. I refer to that organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not mean to imply--Mr. LEES. I certainly do not mean to imply-Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). That the Screen Writers' Guild is a Communist organization ?
Mr. LEES. I don't think it's been listed in any of your organizations, but anything is possible in this day and age.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you mean that it's possible that the Screen Writers' Guild is a Communist organization?
Mr. LEES. It's not a Communist organization, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you certain? 
Mr. LEES. As I understand it. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 207 
Mr. TAVENNER. And you did not mean to infer that it was by your answer ?
Mr. LEES. I do not mean to infer that it was, but I did mean that it's possible for any labor union or any organization at some future date perhaps to be listed. That's all I meant.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you any reason to believe that this organiza- tion would ever be listed as a Communist-front organization?
Mr. LEES. I have no reason to believe that. Neither have I had reason to believe that some of the organizations or other organizations that have been listed could have been listed. Since that's been possible, almost any organization can become suspect.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, will you refer by name to any organization which you did not have reason to believe would be cited and which has been?
Mr. LEES. I decline to get into the discussion of organizations that have been listed, because I cannot, unfortunately, because of involving myself and incriminating myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Referring again to the play Meet the Invisible Man, is it ifot true that Frederick I. Rinaldo was a joint writer with you in that screen play ?
Mr. LEES. I refuse to answer that question on the ground previously stated.
Mr. KEARNEY. Even in view of the fact it's public knowledge ?
Mr. LEES. I think this is all a matter of record.
Mr. KEARNEY. I didn't ask you what you thought. Will you please answer my question?
Mr. LEES. I mean I was referring to earlier questions on this subject where I have claimed the privilege, and I am claiming the privilege on exactly the same basis that I claimed it before.
Mr. KEARNEY. I would like to ask one more question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. KEARNEY. TO your knowledge, are any of the convicted Hollywood 10 writers now working for the motion-picture industry ?
Mr. LEES. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. WooD. Any further questions?
Mr. KEARNEY. NO. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Velde?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Lees, is it L-e-e-s ?
Mr. LEES. That's correct.
Mr. VELDE. You have refused to answer quite a number of very pertinent questions on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate you. I wonder if you honestly feel that you are more in danger of being incriminated by refusing to answer than you would in answering truthfully ?
Mr. LEES. Would you repeat that again, please ? I'm sorry.
Mr. VELDE. Do you honestly feel that you would be more in danger of being incriminated by refusing to answer these pertinent questions than you would be by answering them truthfully?
Mr. LEES. May I point out that as I understand the use and the privilege of the fifth amendment is such that drawing inferences as to guilt or nonguilt by claiming the privilege is something that is not correct.
Mr. VELDE. Well, you realize, of course, Mr. Lees, this is not a court of law. I maan we can't possibly prosecute you as a defendant. 208 INDUSTRY This is an investigative body of the Congress, and as such it is charged with the duty of gathering information about subversive, disloyal activities of the United States. You realize that, don't you? 
Mr. LEES. I realize that the committee is functioning along its lines of investigating what it considers subversive. of the committee. These are the opinions And I have opinions about subversion or nonsub- version or what is democratic or what is patriotic, and those are my opinions. I think we're getting into a matter of opinion.
Mr. VELDE. Apparently you have an idea that admission of Corn munist Party membership would tend to incriminate you. You have so refused to- answer questions about your membership on that. basis, Do you want this committee to assume'that there is something more subversive or that you know of other activities that are more subversive than being a member of the Communist Party, or do you know of activities that the Communist Party is engaged in that are more subversive ?
Mr. LEES. I have just stated I don't think it is correct for this committee to assume on the basis of the fact that I have taken a stand on this amendment, and that is what I said, and you have just pointed out that you're assuming something which I don't want to be assumed.
Mr. VELDE. It's a question of whether or not you feel that there is actual danger of you being prosecuted as a result of your truthful answers here. 
Mr. LEEs. Well, I believe that in claiming the privilege on the basis of self-incrimination or on the basis that I might tend to incriminate myself makes that quite clear.
Mr. VELDE. Well, can you mention anyone who has been incrimi- nated by this committee by answering questions truthfully? 
Mr. LEES. I think this is a matter of personal feeling on the subjects and, as I say I don't think you should assume from my answers anything other than what is said.
Mr. VELDE. There have been quite a number of cooperative witnesses -who admitted to this committee that they have been members of the Communist Party and have answered the questions to the best of their ability. Have any of those in your knowledge been prosecuted for any type of crime whatsoever?
Mr. LEES. I don't know actually what's happened in prosecution, but I do know that there has been a great deal' of reaction generally to people who have come before this committee and have cooperated with it. I know that there has been all kind of problems. I know that people who are-simply subpenaed by this committee have found themselves blacklisted or no longer able to work. I figure there's all kinds of jeopardy involved in this committee, either whether you're friendly or not.
Mr. VELDE. There's quite a difference between incrimination by pub- lic opinion and incrimination by a court of law. 
Mr. LEES. I'm not a lawyer on that subject. I don't know. But I do know I have claimed the privilege in the way I understand it, and that's why I have claimed it.
Mr. VELDE. Do you state whether or not you know Abraham Polonsky ?
Mr. LEES. Could I be refreshed by counsel? Oh, I declined, I gather. I declined.  INDUSTRY 209 
Mr. VELDE. And do you now decline to state whether ydu are acquainted with him ?
Mr. LEES. I still decline to state on the basis that I have previously stated.
Mr. VELDE. Was Abraham Polonsky engaged in some kind of dis- loyal or subversive activities that would cause your admission of acquaintance with him to make you refuse to answer on the ground of self-incrimination?
Mr. LEES. Well, as I said, when we discussed this previously or when this subject was brought up, that that name was brought into this committee by an informer. I believe that puts me or anyone else involved in connection with this person in a position whereby he can be incriminated.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did I understand you to say "brought before this committee by an informer" ?
Mr. LEES. Well, as I feel- 
Mr. KEARNEY. Or by someone who was telling the truth ?
Mr. LEES. Well, I don't know how to get into this discussion as to what is truth or what is informing or what isn't, but I do knowMr. KEARNEY. I will say for the benefit of the gentleman testify- ing that the whole line of testimony of all these witnesses who have appeared before this committee seems to have a particular pattern with reference to the word "informer."
Mr. VELDE. I just have one more question. Are you acquainted with Sylvia Morrow?
Mr. LEES. What was that name again?
Mr. VELDE. Sylvia Morrow.
Mr. LEES. I don'tMr. VELDE. I think she's the former wife or possibly at the present time of Abraham Polonsky.
Mr. LEES. Well, if this is connected with the same question that I have refused to answer for reasons I have stated previously, I refuse on the same basis.
Mr. VELDE. That's all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Lees, you feel you're really informed and ac- quainted with the purposes of this committee before which you're a witness now ? Do you really feel you are ?
Mr. LEES. Informed on this committee?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes.
Mr. LEES. In what way?
Mr. DOYLE. Well, do you feel you know what the purpose of this committee is ? Let me ask it this way: If you feel you are informed of the purpose of this congressional committee, tell me, please, what you think the purpose of this committee is under the law. What are we trying to do ? What is our purpose?
Mr. LEES. Well, I don't know why you're asking me what you're trying to do. Actually I think that is something you know-what you're trying to do. If it's a matter of information on this, I have fine legal advice here that would be 21() INDUSTRY 
Mr. DOYLE. I know, but they are both brilliant lawyers, I happen to know. I happen to know that you are a very brilliant writer apparently and a very brilliant witness.
Mr. LEES. Thank you, Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. DOYLE. And you and I were born in a great State, by the way.
Mr. LEES. We were. 
Mr. DOYLE. But I'm wondering if you are under any misapprehension as to the purpose, objectives or good faith of this committee. I'm kind of under the impression that perhaps you don't know what the purpose of this committee is, and I'm not asking that, Lees, to embarrass you, to try to trick or trap you. I'm talking with you as one American to another. But I'm wondering if you really know what we are trying to do as a committee.
Mr. LEES. Well, Mr. Doyle, I'm glad you have asked me this aues-. tion as one American to anotherMr. DOYLE. All right.
Mr. LEES (continuing). Because as an American I have very definite views about certain policies in the past and what has been said ihonlt this committee, the activities of this committee.
Mr. DOYLE. I mean, What is the purpose of it as this session in Congress?
Mr. LEES. I know what has been listed organizationwise. I know the number of people who have been blacklisted. I know the number of people who no longer can work. I know the number of careers that have been completely destroyed. I know a great number of things that have happened.
Mr. KEARNEY. IS that due to the company they kept?
Mr. LEES. All I know is that these people are respected citizens, and I have been living a very respectable and very, very upright life. I have been born in a great State and lived in that State, as Mr. Doyle has just pointed out. And I feel that 17 years of work in the motionpicture industry of which I have devoted my time and my effort has been destroyed by this committee.
Mr. DOYLE. Now, I would assure you that as a member of the committee there is no purpose or intent to destroy the career of any person nor. harm any person. But as long as it appears you rely upon your counsel because you haven't had the time or taken the time to read the law and the jurisdiction of this committee, let me just quote the purpose of it, if I may, to you and see if you are in accord with this sort of purpose. Under Public Law 601 the Committee on Un-American Activities as a whole or by subcommittee is authorizedto make from time to time investigations of the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States. Do you or do you not feel that that is a worthy purpose?
Mr. LEES. Mr. Doyle, I have my opinion on what constitutes disloyal activities, and I base my opinion on the first amendment, and I consider disloyal activities that abridge anyone's right to speak or to join organizations of his free will, any rights of religion or beliefs, and I know some organizations that do persecute people because of their religion or their beliefs. I know of organizations that have persecuted people because of their race.
Mr. DOYLE. So do I. 'COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE (INDUSTRY 211 
Mr. LEEs. I believe that these organizations infringe on the rights of the American people in the first amendment and I feel that any infringements on the rights of the first amendment must be defended and the organizations that do these things must be attacked. On this basis I clearly see the right of this committee to attack those organizations and to ferret those organizations out, as I understand the first amendment and the right of the people under the first amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. A few minutes ago you stated, "I have opinion of what is subversive and what is not." Do you remember so stating? And, of course, perhaps we all do that, try to be patriotic citizens. We are trying to arrive at some fair conclusion as to what subversive is and what it is not. Now, let me ask you again, Mr. Lees. I don't think you answered my question. I don't want to be unfair with you nor press it unduly, but in view of your voluntary statement a few minutes ago, and I quote, "I have opinion what is subversive and what is not"-you weren't pressed for that statement. You volunteered that statement just a few minutes ago. I wrote it down. I think I wrote it down verbatim. Do you remember so stating?
Mr. LEES. I believe that's correct. 
Mr. DOYLE. All right. If we are in agreement on that I will ask you again. The law says that we are authorized by the Congress of the United States to examine into the extent, character, and objects of un-American activities in the United States.
Mr. LEES. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. Now, assuming, therefore, that we are today examining--Mr. LEEs. Are you asking me to assume that, Mr. Doyle, I mean?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes; I'm asking you.
Mr. LEES. Because why I said my opinion was on the first amendment is that I felt that there were a great number of things under the first amendment that were being infringed upon by organizations, and because these organizations were not attacked, were not brought here, were not exposed by this committee, I do not feel that this committee was doing the thing that you say that they should be doing.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, you don't feel to date we have done a thorough enough job? Is that correct?
Mr. LEES. I feel that for a great number of years that this committee has failed to go ahead and do the job that the
Mr. DOYLE. All right.
Mr. LEES (continuing). That the statement you make there is, ac- cording to my interpretation, of the Bill of Rights.
Mr. DOYLE. All right. Now, Mr. Lees, do you feel that that statement in the law, just the statement I have read you, to examine and investigate into the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States, is a worthy objective?
Mr. LEES. According to the way I see it, I think that the exposure of any infringement of the first amendment is a worthy objective.
Mr. DOYIE. Well, now, is that your final answer to that question?
Mr. LEES. Yes; that is the final answer.
Mr. DOYLE. Now, let me go to the next section. This committee then is also charged with examining, investigating the diffusion with81595-51-pt. 1-11 212 in the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda as instigated from foreign countries. Do you feel that is a worthy objective of the committee of the Congress or not?
Mr. LEES. Un-American propaganda in terms of what?
Mr. DOYLE. Well, you said you had your opinion of what is subversive.
Mr. LEEs. I base my opinion on what I can clearly see is subversion of the Constitution, which is the rights, as I understand them, of freedom of religion, speech, thought, press-Mr. DoYLE. Well-Mr. LEES (continuing). Rights of trial by jury. I could go on if you want.
Mr. DOLE. In other words, in your opinion what is subversive conduct?
Mr. LEES. Well, I think actually if you ask my opinion on this, which you have, I think where subversion becomes a matter of opinion or the fact that a man has said something that you disagree with, I don't think that disagreement should put a man in a position of not being an American, because I feel that disagreement is the only way that this country has ever grown. There has been disagreement, for example, with General MacArthur today, and what's happened has been the result of a discussion back and forth and conclusions made through disagreement. I believe if no agreement was made or disagreement allowed to be hadMr. DOYE. May I ask: You don't think for one minute that this committee or any member of it is interested in holding subversive a person just because we disagree with that person ?
Mr. LEES. I don't know about that. That's what bothers me. 
Mr. DoYLE. I want to set you right. That's a lot of baloney.
Mr. LEES. I'm glad to hear that. I'm still somewhat bothered.
Mr. DOYLE. As one American to another, I want to tell you it's a lot of baloney when somebody tells you that this committee of Congress is interested in persecuting or holding a person subversive just because they differ with that person. I have one more question.
Mr. LEEs. All right, Mr. Doyle. I would like to give you an opinion on that.
Mr. DOYLE. I asked you for your opinion.
Mr. LEES. I'd like to continue.
Mr. DOYLE. Now, one step more. I'm reading from the law, trying to get an honest-to-God answer from you.
Mr. LEE. I'm giving you that, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE (reading): * * * or subversive propaganda of a domestic origin and which attacks the principles of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution. Now, don't you feel that is a worthy objective and a necessary function in the United States Congress that we investigate into ways and means which are devised and used to upset if need be by force the form of American constitutional government? Aren't we justified? Aren't we charged with that duty as American Congressmen ?
Mr. LEES. I think the upholding of the Constitution is not only the job of a Congressman; it is the job of every citizen in this country.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, then, you would agree with me that we should go every honest-to-God limit within the law to find out who is subversive and what organizations are subversive and what are not, wouldn't you ?  213 
Mr. LEES. As I defined very clearly, I hope, what I consider sub- version, and since you're asking me my opinion, Mr. Doyle, I can only give you my opinion.
Mr. DOYLE. That's all I want. 
Mr. LEES. My feeling is that subversion involves abridgments of the first amendment. When there is no abridgment of the first amendment, where it comes an area in which there is no question of a matter of free speech or certain rights guaranteed by the American people, I believe there becomes a very clear line between what is
Mr. DOYLE. Wouldn't you feel
Mr. LEES (continuing). Abridging one's right. 
Mr. DOYLE. Wouldn't you feel, Mr. Lees, that if there was any person or organization which propagandized that it was 0. K. if necessary to upset the American constitutional form of government by force, that that person or organization was subversive and ought to be smoked out and be stamped for what they are, or not? 
Mr. LEES. Well, the point is in this question what involves force and violence and what's being said here by this question in terms of- let me put it this way: I think that any action of force or violence against this country should be treated and is treated as a breaking of the law by the forces that are in charge of the law.
Mr. DOYLE. You have heard Mr. Hayden on yesterday. You said you were in the room here. I think you said you had been here a couple of days and heard all the testimony. That's good, because it gives you the benefit and the committee the benefit of your testimony in light of the fact that you have heard all the testimony for a couple of days. I am now reminding you that you heard the testimony of Mr. Hayden, an actor from Hollywood, in answer to my question I think it was. I asked him in substance whether or not it was his opinion that the Communist Party in the United States had as one of its objectives the overthrow of the constitutional form of government in the United States by force if necessary. Do you remember that question
Mr. LEES. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. Your answer is "Yes." You remember he said that his answer was "Yes." Do you remember that? 
Mr. LEES. Yes. 
Mr. DoLE. All right. Would you feel that in view of that sort of testimony from a former Communist and admitted Communist that this committee is doing any less than its full duty toward the American people to go every legal limit to ferret out every member of the Communist Party in the United States and to smoke out the ways and means which they devise and use to overthrow the constitutional form of government by force if necessary, as Hayden testified ?
Mr. LEES. Mr. Doyle, you're now getting onto a question which I feel throughout the testimony here I have claimed the privilege, because of this kind of organization and other organizations being branded as subversive, and I feel, although I would like to discuss these questions with you at length, that this in a sense can be selfincriminating, and I decline to answer that question.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Lees, this is my final statement or question. One reason I have asked you these questions involving more or less the philosophy of certain thinking is that I wanted to try to convince you if I could as a much younger man that this committee is not interested 214 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY in persecuting anybody, not you, not even the Communist Party. We are interested in fulfilling our responsibilities to the American people, which charges us with ferreting out and discovering and bringing before the law, as you stated, every person and every organization that is interested, has an objective in upsetting by force if necessary the American form of government. And I hope you will go back to Hollywood and to my native State with a firm knowledge of the fact that this committee is not apparently functioning the way you thought it was functioning when you came here as a witness. In other words, we are not interested in persecuting.
Mr. LEES. WellMr. DOYLE. I want to try to convince you of that as a much younger man. 
Mr. LEES. Mr. Doyle, I would like to go back to California and believe that, but I am going back to California and I know other witnesses and other people who have been before this committee maybe can't go back to California because there's no point in going back there because they can no longer work in the motion-picture industry, and they might try to find a job somewhere else. I don't know how you term this, as persecution or what, but I feel that this certainly comes under the heading of some kind of pressure that can can be termed "blacklist," if you will, and that I don't feel that a black- list denying people employment for. whatever political beliefs they might hold is American. 
Mr. DOYLE. Not even if those people directly or indirectly are interested in using force and violence to upset the constitutional form of government in this country as testified to yesterday by your fellow actor Hayden?
Mr. LEES. I said this-I have to make myself very clear about this. I said that anyone who uses force or violence should be treated by the proper authorities.
Mr. DOYLE. All right.
Mr. LEES. I also stated that matters of opinion are sacred under our first amendment, and when you go into the area of thoughtand, believe me, I as a writer make my living in the area of thoughtin the matter of research, in the matter of reading, in the matter of all these things, I feel that any infringement on perhaps opinions or thoughts which this committee or some other future committee might deem suddenly un-American becomes a very dangerous thing in this country. Very dangerous.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, one question more. Don't you think, in view of your statement, that you felt that persons who had the philosophy of overthrowing this Government by force if necessary should be brought before the bar of the law and prosecuted within the law, in view of that statement by you, don't you think it is our duty as American Congressmen charged with this responsibility by all of the Congress to find out who those persons are in a public session like this and then see to it they are prosecuted within the law? That's what you have just stated, isn't it?
Mr. LEES. I stated a matter of action. As far as getting into the realms of what people believe, if a matter of advocating these things, of trying to talk about these things in teims of destroying our Constitution, as I have said before, I'm a great upholder and believer in our Constitution. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 215 
Mr. DOYLE. Then do I understand that a courteous answer to me, and I appreciate your courteous answer-do I understand then that you feel that if members of the Communist Party, as an American, as testified to by your fellow actor Hayden, just talk about overthrowing the United States of America by force, that is O. K. as long as they don't take any action to- do it? You differentiated just now in action and talking. Do I understand that that is yourMr. LEES. Mr. Doyle, I did get into this discussion with you before, and you have now gone again to that area where discussion becomes impossible, and I'm sorry I must claim my privilege not to get into that discussion, in the same way I have claimed my privilege all through this hearing.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. I want to say again, Mr. Chairman, and I want to emphasize this, that I think that some of these folks from Hollywood, my native State, as well as other places, are under a firm conviction, whatever the reason is, that this committee is interested in persecuting rather than protecting our Nation. I want to say to you again, Mr. Lees, I hope wherever you go that I have a question mark in your mind as to the accuracy of that, because it's damnably false. And I wouldn't be on this committee for 30 seconds if I felt the objective of this committee was to persecute any person or any group of persons in America. But I am also firmly under the conviction that it is the duty of this committee and it is your duty as an American citizen to help this committee ferret and smoke out any person that is interested in using force to overthrow the constitutional form of government of the United States. Thank you very much.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn.
Mr. WooD. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. The committee will recess until 10 o'clock in the morning.
Mr. KENNY. Is the witness excused, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. WooD. Yes. (Thereupon, at 1:35 p. m., the hearing was adjourned, to be re- convened at 10 a. m., Thursday, April 12, 1951.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 1 THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, CoMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN AcTrvrIIES, Washington, D. 0. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10: 15 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, Clyde Doyle, Harold H. Velde (appearance as noted in transcript), Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, investigator; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order. Let the record show that the members present are Mr. Walter,
Mr. Doyle, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Potter, and Mr. Wood, a quorum of the full committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to call Mr. Richard J. Collins.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Collins, will you raise your right hand, please?. You solenmly swear the testimony you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. CorLINs. I do.
Mr. WooD. Have a seat. TESTIMONY OF RICHARD J. COLLINS 
