Mr. SALT. I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. SALT. Yes; I am represented by Mr. Margolis and Mr. Kenny.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe counsel have already identified themselves for the record. (Counsel had previously identified themselves as Robert W. Kenny, Los Angeles, Calif.; and Ben Margolis, 112 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles, Calif.) 81595-51-pt. 1--14 259 260 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Salt, will you please state the date of your birth, your present residence, and occupation ?
Mr. SALT. I was born in Chicago, Ill., October 18, 1914. My present residence is 12'21 North Kings Road, Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a brief statement of your educational training?
Mr. SALT. The period of grammar school, I went to a British private school in Victoria, British Columbia. High school was in the San Raphael Military Academy; the Menlo School for Boys, Menlo Park, Calif.; and I took my A. B. at Stanford.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your employment since you completed your education ?
Mr. SALT. I spent one school year as instructor in dramatics and music at Menlo Junior College, and from then on have been employed in the motion-picture industry.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you employed in the industry at this time?
Mr. SALT. Not exactly at this time.
Mr. TAVENNER What was the nature of your last employment in the industry ?
Mr. SALT. I was at work on an original screen play for Norma Pro- ductions, which is an independent with Warner Bros.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the company ?
Mr. SALT. Norma, as in the girl's name.
Mr. TAVENNER. What other employment have you had in Hollywood besides that ? What are some of the principal pictures in which you have worked as a writer ?
Mr. SALT. From present to past, or past to present?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you begin either way you desire.
Mr. SALT. I started as a junior writer. Shall I give a history?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; I believe that would be more satisfactory if you would start from the beginning and tell about your experience and career in Hollywood.
Mr. SALT. I began as a junior writer, I believe I was 20 years old, at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer; worked there for 5 years, 51/ years.
Mr. TAVENNER. And when was that?
Mr. SALT. I think it began in 1936 and ran through to 1941, as I remember. During that period I had credit on Shopworn Angel; in a picture called Wild Man of Borneo in collaborationMr. TAVENNER. Will you speak a little louder?
Mr. SALT. I am sorry.
Mr. WooD. The members of the committee can't hear you up here.
Mr. SALT. I am very sorry. The picture Shopworn Angel and the picture Wild Man of Borneo, for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. The picture Tonight We Raid Calais, for Twentieth Century Fox. Mr. Winkle Goes to War, for Columbia. Rachel and the Stranger, for RKO. And the most recent, The Flame and the Arrow, for Warner Bros. and Norma Productions.
Mr. TAVENNER. The last picture to which you referred, The Flaming ArrowMr. SALT. The Flame and the Arrow.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing).-The Flame and the Arrow was based upon the book of Albert Maltz, was it not ?
Mr. SALT. No; it was an original screen play.
Mr. TAVENNER. By you? COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 261 
Mr. SALT. By me.
Mr. TAVENNER. What agency has represented you in the past 4 or 5 years if any?
Mr. SALT. I think that I have been represented by 2 in the past 5 years. I am not sure. I am now with Sam Jaffe Agency. that I was with the M. C. Levee, L-e-v-e-e, Agency. Before 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of the change from one to the other?
Mr. SALT. I think that may have been 4 years ago. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of having been engaged in the teaching profession at one time. Were you a member of the faculty of the School for Writers in Hollywood?
Mr. SALT. Which School for Writers is that?
Mr. TAVENNER. The school that was conducted under the auspices of the League of American Writers.
Mr. SALT. At this point I think that we might as well be very clear. I am going to claim the privilege of the fifth amendment here, as other witnesses have, because a number of organizations, their membership, individually and collectively, have been incriminated already by publication of lists without sufficient evidence, chance to cross-examine the witnesses against them; have been printed up in leaflets and in publications such as this; andMr. WooD. Suppose you just make your answer responsive to the question asked. If any question is asked you that you think would incriminate you by giving a truthful answer to it, you have the right to claim' that privilege if you want to claim it. I want to say to you that to the question asked, a truthful answer could not possibly incriminate you under any law in existence today, but if you want to claim the privilege, it is all right with this committee. There can only be one of two connotations. So please make your answers responsive to the questions asked and we will get along faster and save a lot of time.
Mr. SALT. I am extremely anxious to get along fast.
Mr. WooD. Make your answers responsive.
Mr. SALT. I would like to make quite clear the legal grounds on which I am proceeding.
Mr. WOOD. We understand the provisions of the fifth amendment and also the first amendment of the American Constitution. on those grounds, that is all you need to say. If it is 
Mr. SALT. I would like to add this qualification, Mr. Wood, that I have sat through several days of your hearings here, and in particular I noticed you did not object when one of your witnesses, Mr. Hayden, said to claim the privilege of the fifth amendment implied guilt. I- know this is not true. I am sure you know it is not true.
Mr. WooD. If it is not true, then your claiming it is a false statement on your part.
Mr. SALT. NO. I think there may be a very serious misinterpretation of the fifth amendment here.
Mr. Woon. Just answer the questions, please, without undertaking to lecture the committee, and I think we will get along faster.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand you have refused to answer the question ? 262
Mr. SALT. I have not yet. I was stating my grounds. In rela- tion to the organizations listed in addition to the 643 already labeled as subversive by your committee, I feel that I must claim the privilege of the fifth amendment, refuse to answer that on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a member of the board of directors or other governing body of Actors' Laboratory, Inc. ?
Mr. SALT. I am sure that the Actors' Laboratory is included there. It was investigated by Jack Tenney. 1
Mr. WooD. What is your answer to the question ?
Mr. SALT. Therefore I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVESNNER. Did you make an announcement in the Daily People's World of January 20, 1944, supporting the formation of a group m Los Angeles to work for the release of Morris U. Schappes ?
Mr. SALT. Again 1 am sure that it is obvious that I would claim the privilegeMr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, may I suggest that he answer "yes" or "no," and if he feels it is going to incriminate him, to so state, instead of going into a long harangue ?
Mr. WOOD. Yes.
Mr. SALT. I will repeat my last answer. privilege. Again I must claim the I am sorry if that is a harangue. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Morris U. Schappes was the teacher at City College in New York who was indicted and convicted for perjury in connection with an investigation of his alleged Communist Party activities at this institution, and I want to ask whether or not you organized or assisted in organizing a movement in California to petition Governor Dewey to commute his sentence ?
Mr. SALT. Again 1 decline on the grounds that this requires me to give evidence against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a candidate for the executive board of the .Hollywood Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council of the Progressive Citizens of America in 1947 ?
Mr. SALT. I must decline on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you also a candidate for the executive board in 1951?
Mr. SALT. That is the same question; same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a sponsor of the State-wide Conference on Civil Rights which was held in San Francisco, September 27 and 28, 1941 ?
Mr. SALT. I am sure that this question falls into the same category as earlier questions. I decline to answer on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you testify under oath before the California State Committee on Un-American Activities in 1944
Mr. SALT. Is that the Tenney committee ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. SALT. I believe yes. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you testify under oath at that time and before that committee in 1944 that you were a member of the Hollywood Democratic Committee? 1 State Senator Jack B. Tenney, of the California State Legislature. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 263 
Mr. SALT. Again, in the context of today, I must refuse to answer that on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. You take that position notwithstanding you testified under oath to that fact in 1944, if you did so testify ?
Mr. SALT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you also testify under oath before that com- mittee in 1944 that you attended a surprise birthday party for Carl Winter at his home on September 24, 1944 ?
Mr. SALT. Again, in the context of today, I must decline to answer that on the grounds that it might tend to be self-incriminating.
Mr. TAVENNER. How. could it incriminate you today to advise this -committee regarding the facts of a matter which you did testify to under oath in 1944?
Mr. SALT. I don't want to go into any harangues. As a taxpayer, I am as anxious to see these hearings end as soon as possible. I disapprove of this entire tendency of government toward government by quiz show. I think it is rather obvious, as the witness yesterday said, that the world situation has altered radically between even 1947 and now.
Mr. TAVENNER. But my question to you, how could it incriminate you nowMr. SALT. The world situation and theMr. TAVENNER (continuing). To make a statement of fact regard- ing a matter which you have testified under oath about at a previous time before another committee ?
Mr. SALT. The world situation and the laws and the situation of this country have changed quite radically since then.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you one of the signers of the nominating position of Albert Maltz in November 1949 for a position on the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. SALT. I believe that is a matter of public record; not public, but I think it is a matter of record. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that what was known as the so-called progres- sive section or part of the Screen Writers' Guild ? Was that in connection with the slate presented by that group ?
Mr. SALT. May I consult with counsel for a moment on this?
Mr. TAVENNER. Surely. (Witness and his counsel conferred.)
Mr. SALT. The fact is that I signed for Albert Maltz, petitioning that he be a nominee for the Screen Writers' Guild, as an individual, because I felt that Albert Maltz would make a very fine representative of the writers.
Mr. WooD. You were not asked for your reason for doing it. You were asked if you did do it.
Mr. SALT. I will testify to the fact that I signed for Albert Maltz. However, I think that when it goes beyond this' into the question of any organizational activity within the Guild, since yesterday and the testimony of your witness, that again I must claim the privilege here on the ground of the fifth amendment, as previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he defeated in that election . Mr. SALT. As I remember, and with my memory refreshed by testimony, I believe he was. 264 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated with the agricultural aid committee of the United Cannery, Packing and Allied Workers of America, of which committee you were alleged to be the chairman?
Mr. SALT. I am quite sure that the United Cannery, Packing and Allied Workers of America is one of the trade-unions that you have seen fit to include in your list as subversive, and on this ground I will decline to answer as previously justified under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Salt, the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Pace was held in New York City from March 25 through March 27, 1949, and this conference was attended by delegates from foreign countries as well as from this country. Did you endeavor to establish a comparable conference to be held in California-or in Hollywood, to be specific-at which you planned that many of these foreign delegates would appear as speakers in the Cultural and Scientific Conference which you desired to hold there, that is, "Conference for Peace," so called?
Mr. SALT. You have a special report on the so-called "Communist Peace Offensive," so I will have to, obviously, decline to answer that on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. WOOD. Well it isn't obvious to me. I don't know if it is obvious to the other members of the committee or not. Do you decline to answer ?
Mr. SALT. I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Very well.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever attend a meeting at which a person by the name of Alexander Stevens, or J. Peters, was present?
Mr. SALT. I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Lionel Berman?
Mr. SALT. I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you met with John Stapp in your home ?
Mr. SALT. I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have a meeting with Alexander Trachtenberg in Los Angeles in the year 1943 ?
Mr. SALT. I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information, Mr. Salt, that you were issued in 1945 Communist Political Association registration card bearing number 47232. Were you the holder of such a card.
Mr. SALT. Decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you the holder of a membership card in the Communist Party for the year 1945, or rather in the Communist Political Association for that year?
Mr. SALT. That is a rephrasing, isn't it, of the -last question, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Not entirely.
Mr. SALT. It is similar.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is related, of course.
Mr. SALT. It is related; therefore I similarly decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you issued a registration card for the year 1944 bearing number 47182, by the Communist Party ?  265 
Mr. SALT. Similarly, this is a related question, and in claiming the privilege of the fifth amendment I would like to say that this and a number of other questions could undoubtedly be answered proudly "yes" or "no" in many countries of the world today, most of the coun- tries outside of this, Spain, ArgentinaMr. WOOD. You are asked to answer in this country, now.
Mr. SALT. Yes; and in this country, again, I must decline to answer under the protection of the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. WALTER. The countries in which you feel that this question could be answered proudly are the countries behind the iron curtain. Was that your meaning?
Mr. SALT. NO; that was not my meaning.
Mr. KEARNEY. Those countries are the countries where they do not have the protection of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. SALT. I was referring to most of the countries of the world who are still operating on the basis of the example originally set by this brave, proud, fine country of ours, who have patterned their system of freedom and justice and political liberty on our own country's, which I think we are slipping away from now, which makes it quite impossible for a man to answer freely, to speak up freely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time during the year 1945 ? 
Mr. SALT. Again this seems to me to be a rephrasing of a previous question, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your answer?
Mr. SALT. I decline to answer that on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an employee in the Office of War Infor- mation during the year 1945 ?
Mr. SALT. Yes. mation. Yes; I was employed by the Office of War Infor- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us when that employment began and when it ended. 
Mr. SALT. I can't be surely specific about this. I believe it began in the early months of 1945 and ended with the summer of 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of your duties and your assignment ?
Mr. SALT. I was assigned on what was called the writer-director classification. I worked on a film called The Cummington Story. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the story? 
Mr. SAvr. The Cummington Story. It was a film based on a group of European refugees received in a town of Cummington, Mass., I believe. Following that I worked on the film called San Francisco 1945, which was a film expressing our point of view toward the San Francisco Conference.
Mr. TAVENNER. Whose point of view ?
Mr. SALT. The United States'.
Mr. TAVENNER. In obtaining employment in the Office of War In- formation, did you take an oath? (No response.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ? 
Mr. SALT. Is that a question?
Mr. TAVENNER. Certainly. I asked you if you took an oath in ob- taining your position with the Office of War Information. 266
Mr. SALT. INDUSTRY - The word "obtained" confused me. I thought it had to do with seeking it. I did not seek it. I was invited.
Mr. TAVENNER. The emphasis is on the oath.
Mr. SALT. I think I probably did. As I remember, there is some form of an oath included in one of the applications, is there not ?
Mr.. TAVENNER. What is the oath? Do you recall it?
Mr. SMAT. No; I am not sure that I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether or not you signed an oath that you were not a member of any political party or organization that advocated the overthrow of the Government of the United States ?
Mr. SALT. I don't recall the specific wording of that oath.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, were you in April of 1945 a member of any political party or organization that advocated the overthrow of the Government?
Mr. SALT. Well, again, quoting Mr. Collins, the world situation has changed a great deal since 1947. The legal rights and the political rights of the individual of this country have changed a great deal since 1947. Various individual interpretations, definitions, have been written into law since then. I believe that this question, again, takes me into an area which might lead to or tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Incriminate you in what way ? What do you mean by tending to incriminate you in the answer to the question as to whether or not, at the time you took the oath which you say you took, you were a member of a political party or organization that advocated the overthrow of the Government?
Mr. SALT. Same answer, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you executed an oath in April 1945 that you were not a member of a political party or association that advocated the overthrow of the Government, was it true or false?
Mr. SALT. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have made reference several times to the testi- mony of the witness-who appeared here yesterday, Mr. Richard Collins. Mr. Collins testified that he brought you into the Communist Party. Is that testimony true or false ?
Mr. SALT. Same answer, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. What answer is that?
Mr. SALT. I decline to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. On what ground?
Mr. SALT. On the ground of the fifth amendment, that such an answer might tend to incriminate me, or, put more specifically within my understanding of the law, might lead to the possibility of prosecution-not conviction or guilt nor any presumption at all of conviction or guilt, but might simply tend to lead to the possibility of prosecution. This, I believe, is the actual legal status of the fifth amendment, the claim to the privilege. I am sorry Mr. Velde is not here, from Illinois, because I am a native of the State of Illinois, and I am informed by counsel, and rather proud of the fact, that in Illinois the courts have ruled that the claim of the privilege of the fifth amendment is not only a right but a duty of the citizen, and that any tendency to say that the claim of the privilege against self-incrimination is in itself incriminating, would be to distort, to stand on its head, and twist beyond any possible reasoned meaning the intent of the Constitution as COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 267 written by our founding fathers, who intended particularly to protect individuals against political inquiry, against inquiry into heresy.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that all ?
Mr. SALT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. You have testified that in 1945 you were invited to become associated with OWI. Who was it that asked you to take that position ?
Mr. SALT. I was asked by the OWI representatives. I don't know exactly which one. I believe that the official in charge responsible at that time was Mr. Robert Riskin, who was head of the Overseas Film Division.
Mr. WALTER. Did you know Mr. Riskin ?
Mr. SALT. I have never met him.
Mr. WALTER. Was it Mr. Riskin who interviewed you when you obtained your position ?
Mr. SALT. No; I believe not. Mr. Riskin was at that time, I believe, in New York. I was in Hollywood.
Mr. WALTER. Who interviewed you in Hollywood ?
Mr. SALT. A man named Smith whose first name, unfortunately, escapes me, and I realize his rather poor identification, although I think if you go to the records of the OWI Overseas Film Unit-Mr. WALTER. Yes; we will find out who it was. Where did this interview take place ?
Mr. SALT. In Hollywood.
Mr. WALTER. DO you know who it was that recommended you to Riskin?
Mr. SALT. No; this I don't know. I think this is rather like employ- ment in any other sense in Hollywood. The OWI information program had rather extensive needs, as you know, and required the services of a great many writers-directors. The full and clear statement of this country's position required all kinds of services. It was not easily done in film. So that I believe a great many writers from time to time did participate on a volunteer basis and in many other ways, and the hiring and firing of people was done on rather the same basis it would be done in a studio, on the basis of reputation, background, motion-picture credits.
Mr. WALTER. You declined to answer the question as to whether or not Mr. Richard Collins recruited you into the Communist Party. If he did not, why don't you just say "No; he did not"
Mr. SALT. This is the same question put in another way.
Mr. WALTER. No; it isn't the same question. I don't like to take a lot of time, but after all, we realize the difference in world conditions. It certainly seems to me that as of today those who applauded the efforts of Russia a few years ago might well take the position that, "At that moment I was entirely justified in doing whatever I did. Today conditions are so obviously different that I feel I owe it to this country, that has given me so much, to indicate the activities so that the Congress of the United States may intelligently legislate in the field of national security."
Mr. SALT. That is a rather complicated question as you put it, 
Mr. Walter, and I think would require a rather complicated answer. 268 I don't want to make harangues. on this-- INDUSTRY If you are asking me for my opinion 
Mr. WOOD. As I recall the question, he simply asked if Mr. Collins' statement yesterday that he was instrumental in recruiting you in the Communist Party is true or false.
Mr. SALT. If the question is that simple, then the framework of the question, I think, should also be that simple, without an elaborate prejudgment of guilt.
Mr. WALTER. We are not interested in convicting anybody of anything. That is not our function. We are seeking information because we feel we are confronted with a very serious menace to the security of our Constitution that you have seen fit to get behind.
Mr. SALT. Or stand in front of.
Mr. WALTER. Or stand in front of, as you like, but nevertheless you are using it for the purpose of not aiding this committee. Did
Mr. Collins recruit you into the Communist Party ?
Mr. SALT. Well, again, Mr. Walter, put in that very simple form, the answer must be the same. I must decline to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment, which I choose to stand in front of.
Mr. WALTER. That is all.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. Committee counsel, Mr. Tavenner, asked you about an individual-was it John Stapp ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. MOULDER. How do you spell it?
Mr. TAVENNER. S-t-a-p-p.
Mr. MOULDER. I am not asking if you are acquainted with him, but do you know who the gentleman is ?
Mr. SALT. Same answer.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you refuse to answer?
Mr. SALT. I refuse to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. MOULDER. The fact you may know who he is or what he is engaged in, your knowledge of that might tend to incriminate you?
Mr. SALT. Perhaps. I just realized Mr. Moulder was not in the room when there was testimony relative to the individual John Stapp. I think if the Congressman had been here he would understand.
Mr. MOULDER. You have heard of him before ?
Mr. SALT. I have heard his name in this room, and therefore decline to answer any questions concerning him.
Mr. MOULDER. Is that the extent of your knowledge of John Stapp, just what you have heard in this room ?
Mr. SALT. Same answer.
Mr. MOULDER. As I understand, you are a resident of what State?
Mr. SALT. California, Mr. Jackson's district.
Mr. MOULDER. What is your age ? 
Mr. SALT. Thirty-seven.
Mr. MOULDER. Thirty-seven. Were you in the military service during the last war ?
Mr. SALT. No: I was deferred as 4-F.
Mr. MOULDER. The question was asked you about a certain number of a Communist card. I want to ask you whether or not you are now a member of the Communist Party. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ? 269 
Mr. SALT. I think that the same answer must be given to this, which :is that I decline to answer on the ground previously stated. 
Mr. MOULDER. In the event of an unprovoked military attack upon this country by the Soviet Union, would'you feel your allegiance to this country and join the defense of our country against such an :attack ? 
Mr. SALT. This is another question that would tend to lead into a harangue, I am afraid.
Mr. MOULDER. That is a simple question.
Mr. SALT. No; I don't believe it is a simple question at all. I think it is probably the major question facing the country today, don't you,
Mr. Moulder?
Mr. MOULDER. Do you wish to answer the question, or do you decline to answer the question ?
Mr. SALT. I would like to answer the question if I may. My answer requires some qualifications, because I do think it is an extremely serious question.
Mr. WOOD. Do you mean it would take a lot of explanation to answer -that?
Mr. SALT. Yes; because it is a presumptive question. It presumes %awar, and I think the presumption of war is the psychological equivalent of advocating preventive war.
Mr. MOULDER. 1y question was, in the event of an unprovoked military attack by the Soviet Union against this country, would you fight in defense of this country, the United States of America?
Mr. SALT. Again I say this is a highly speculative question, Mr. Moulder, and I think it is the kind of speculationMr. MOULDER. I don't care to argue with you. Do you believe in or now advocate the overthrow of or a change in our present form of Government by force and violence ? (Representative Harold H. Velde entered the hearing room.)
Mr. SALT. The gentleman on the wall at my left [indicating picture],
Mr. LincolnMr. MOULDER. That is evading my question.
Mr. SALT. No; I don't think it is. You have asked a question that touches certainly to the deepest part of myself, a question that touches my deepest loyalty to my country-Mr. PoTTER. To our country, you are referring to, the United States? 
Mr. SALT. If you are an American citizen, which I presume you to be, being a Congressman here, then it is "our" country, obviously.
Mr. POTTER. Then why can't you respond to the gentleman's ques- tion? I am responding to the question. It enters the largest possible political field, which is the field of advocacy.
Mr. SALT. 
Mr. MOULDER. You have stated that in some countries you could proudly answer the questions propounded to you by counsel of the committee, such as whether or not you are now a member of the Communist Party, have ever been, and many other questions. You stated that in some countries you could proudly answer those questions, but that you couldn't in this country that you purport to have so much devotion to. In what country or countries could you proudly answer the questions ? 270 INDUSTRY 
Mr. SALT. I am not speaking of myself. I said those questions could be answered by the citizens of those countries. I am a citizen of this country.
Mr. MOULDER. You would have no hesitancy in answering the ques- tion in the Soviet Union, would you?
Mr. SALT. I don't know. I have never been there. I have no plans to go there. I was thinking in particular of a country like France, a country like Britain, our allies.
Mr. MOULDER. And Russia? 
Mr. SALT. I was not thinking of Russia.
Mr. MOULDER. That is all.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I think you heard the testimony of the witness yester- day. You were here throughout the hearing yesterday, I believe?
Mr. SALT. I believe so.
Mr. DOYLE. And the day before?
Mr. SALT. I believe I was here. I didn't hear everything, but I was here.
Mr. DOYLE. The reason I asked the question, then you heard my question on each day to some of the witnesses, in which I called attention to the law under which this committee operates. Did you hear my question on that point ?
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. SALT. I have a written statement I would like to read. DOYLE. Will you please answer my question? SALT. It would have bearing on your question. DOYLE. I haven't asked the question yet. Were you in the hearing room and heard my question?
Mr. SALT. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. It doesn't call for a written statement, does it?
Mr. SALT. NO, but I have a written statement and I think it might be in orderMr. DOYLE. Let me ask the next question as long as you have an- swered that you were present in the hearing room the last couple of days. I call to your attention that under the law under which Congress has asked this committee to operate and make report about, it provides that we shall investigate and examine into "the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States" which disseminated either from foreign countries or within this country. And I think I called attention yesterday to the fact that the commonly accepted definition of "subversive," and the definition given by 
Mr. Webster in his dictionary, is "To cause utter ruin, destruction; to overthrow from the foundations." I will ask you as an American citizen whether or not you feel it is in any way improper, or not to the best interests of our Nation, that this committee should undertake in good faith to examine into the extent of any activities by any person or any group of persons who may be interested in subversive activities designed to overthrow the foundations of our American form of government? Do you understand my question?
Mr. SALT. I believe I do. It is rather long, but I think I followed it. The undertaking in good faith by the Nation and by the people's elected representatives to search out and punish the acts of subver-  271 sion, I think is one of the highest and most worthy things that could be.done. I think it has been done in the past, and I think that Congress has certainly accomplished very important things. I am thinking particularly of the La Follette committee under Roosevelt. I think this question of good faith that you put is a very serious question. I remember the debate on the law that you read from, and in that debate I recall that I believe the author of the legislation, Mr. John Rankin, said that the vote showed that the Members of Congress are in favor of having a vigilante committee. "I," Mr. Rankin said, "took up this fight where he left off." 
Mr. DOYLE. You are reading, in part, from the sheet that you pulled out of your pocket awhile ago that you wanted to read ? 
Mr. SALT. No. I am reading from a small note.
Mr. DOYLE. I put that term "good faith" in my question for your benefit and for the benefit of the committee, because we are seeking good-faith answers by patriotic American citizens. So I deliberately put that phrase in it, "in good faith," the same as I did the other day, because I sort of gathered the inference from what you have said and from what some of the other witnesses have said before, that they had an idea this committee was not acting in good faith in trying to uncover the subversive activities of persons or groups. Is that your opinion, that we are not acting in good faith? M'r. SALT. Well, I would not like to go into the motives or advocacies of this committee any more than I want or believe this committee has the constitutional right to go into my advocacies. I can only discuss what I believe to be the fact of the actions of the committee over its history, the witnesses that it has called, their character and kind, and the results of the committee's activities.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I don't know whether to assume that you are not willing to answer the question of whether or not you feel the committee is in good faith in its work?
Mr. SALT. If you insist on my personal opinion, I would be happy to give it to you. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I stated frankly to you that I am under the im- pression, and some of the other witnesses have felt, that the committee is not in good faith.
Mr. SALT. Then I will give you my direct answer, Mr. Doyle. Based on the entire record of this committee, which has been rather supported than repudiated by the present membership, based on the kinds of witnesses that from time to time have been brought forward here and their testimony accepted without any serious cross-examination- such as the known perjurers, Larry Doyle and Harper Knowles; a murderer called McCuiston; Gerald Smith; the members of the Motion Picture Alliance in Hollywood--on that basis I can only say that I must draw my own conclusion for myself that the investigations are not in good faith.
Mr. DOYLE. Then my assumption is correct. I assumed from the very start as you began to testify today that you were testifying, in part, at least, as you did because you felt this committee was not in good"faith; and apparently I was correct in that assumption; wasn't I? Well, I just wish to say this, Mr. Salt. There was a time, as I un- derstand it, when this committee did not allow witnesses before it to have their own counsel. I was one of the Members of Congress that 272 strenuously opposed that procedure in this committee when I first came to this Congress, and I would still oppose if it the committee undertook now to deny witnesses the right of counsel in the hearing room, as you have today. I state that to you simply because I want you to realize that I am one of the members of the committee that has undertaken-and I am sure all of the present members of this committee have undertaken-in good faith to be factual and to establish the truth, whatever it is. We are not undertaking to persecute. I don't know of a single member of this committee that is interested in persecuting any citizen; but, on the other hand, I will state frankly to you as a resident of the State of California that I am interested in this definition of Webster. and under the law as it is written to help ferret out any person or any group of persons who are interested, either presently or past or in the future, in subversive misconduct or propaganda. That is what this committee is designed to do and what it will do.. I heard yesterday and the day before witnesses of your own profession testify that in their judgment the Communist Party of the United States was interested in the overthrow of our form of constitutional government, and in the face of that sort of testimony, which has not been contradicted by you or any other person, who claims the privilege of the fifth amendment and is unwilling to state whether or not you have been or are now a member of the Communist Partyin the face of that attitude toward you men and women who may or may not be members of the Communist Party, but at least claim the privilege when we ask you about it, I am constrained to conclude that the'Communist Party in the United States of America is interested and has been, according to their own testimony as members of the Communist Party, in the forceful overthrow, if necessary, of the American form of government which has borne you and which has borne me. Thank you very much.
Mr. WooD. Any further questions? Mr. Velde ?
Mr. VELDE. I have no questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. I have just a couple of questions. 
Mr. Salt, you are employed by Norma Productions; is that my understanding?
Mr. SALT. No. That was terminated as soon as my subpena was made public.
Mr. JACKSON. Who is the head of Norma Productions?
Mr. SALT. Norma Productions is an independent company, I believe, made up of Harold Hecht and Burt Lancaster.
Mr. JACKSON. When was your last employment at R-K-O, Mr. Salt ?
Mr. SALT. It was just before I went to work on this. I would say that it was 3 or 4 months. I am not exactly sure of the date. I was rushing to finish one screen play to move over to another.
Mr. JACKSON. Was that in 1950?
Mr. SALT. I think it probably was; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. What script were you engaged on at R-K-O?
Mr. SALT. I finished the screen play of The Day They Gave the Babies Away.
Mr. JACKSON. Who hired you at R-K-O ?
Mr. SALT. Eddie Granger.  
Mr. JACKSON. 273 Now, during the period of time that you were with the OWI, who was your immediate responsible superior, Mr. Salt? Who supervised your work generally ?
Mr. SALT. That is a very difficult question to answer. I am sure. that you all have some memory of the complications in those years. I think that the responsible Government man who was a civil-service representative was Mr. Smith. The chief of production was Robert Riskind, who left during the period that I was there, because the war ended in Europe. He was followed by his assistant, whose name I don't remember.
Mr. JACKSON. To whom did you hand your completed work on a day-to-day basis or week-to-week basis? Who received the script? 
Mr. SALT. Well, it couldn't be done that way. I would have to explain the actual process and work of production. A documentary film is quite different in its production form than an entertainment film, at least the documentaries made there. Usually it is based on film already taken which is there that is being put together, put into some kind of, hopefully, artistic entertaining form. The writer goes along with this, helping to suggest arrangements of the film and preparing commentary to go with it. At several stages along the way, in each of the projects we were on on the San Francisco Conference picture, for instance, we were in New York. The Conference was in San Francisco. The film came to us 3 days later. We nat- urally read all of the daily teletype releases and tried to plan a picture on a conference while it was going on, because the office in Washing- ton was very anxious to have some kind of a picture at the end of the Conference for use. So that there was no immediate day-to-day supervision, but therewould be rather frequent discussions of the material, supervision of the material, in a projection room, by either Mr. Riskind or the man who followed him. We brought the print to Washington for general approval and discussion. There was an advisory board of policy who also would move in from time to time to discuss this. There was. the whole OWI staff, which was on Fifty-seventh Street. We were on Forty-fifth Street. So that I would say that the number of people who were in day-to-day contact with the film, every few days or every week, wer more people than you would find-in Hollywood, actually.
Mr. JACKSON. That is not an unusual situation in Washington. In common with some of the other members of the committee, Mr.. Salt, I am sorry that you have seen fit to stand upon your unquestioned right to refuse to answer many of the questions which have been asked this morning in many of which I see no possibility of self-- incrimination. In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I would just like to say that I feel that when Mr. Salt walks out of this committee room, if he is in anymanner incriminated by his refusal to answer many of these questions, that that incrimination will be a direct result of his refusal to answerthe many questions which have been asked and to which truthful answers could in no way have incriminated him.
Mr. SALT. Well, I don't know. It has been an old family tradition that you don't try to lay blame but seek out the root of the problem.
Mr. JACKSON. That is precisely what this committee is attempting- 274 INDUSTRY to do. If we simply sit here and thumb non-cooperative witnesses on their way to courts of proper jurisdiction from whence they continue on to jail, we are not fulfilling our function of obtaining information. I personally should hate to see this committee become a whistle stop on the way to jail, because we are not going to find out anything. The only things we find out are from these people who come in here and talk.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter, do you have any questions ? I want to give the members a chance to answer this call.
Mr. POTER. Mr. Salt, do you belong to the Ku Klux Klan organi- zation ?
Mr. SALT. No; I do not, Mr. Potter. 
Mr. PorrER. Do you belong to the Communist Party or are you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. SALT. I am sure that the Congressman understands the very wide difference there.
Mr. POTTER. You answered my first question very easily, and the second question can be answered just as easily.
Mr. SALT. Well, as a witness, I feel that I am in a rather unfair situation here because it is a trick question. I would like to be able to answer it honestly. I do have to claim the privilege on the last half of the question.
Mr. POTTER. In other words, you claim the privilege of the fifth amendment to my question as to whether you are now a member of the Communist Party. Is that correct ?
Mr. SALT. Yes. You are a young man and you have done fairly well
Mr. POTTrr. in this country of ours. Many men have had to give a lot more than you for the freedom which we are interested in, and many men today of your age are giving a lot more than you have ever given. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. The committee will take a recess for 30 minutes. Unless there are further questions, you may be excused. (Witness excused.) (Whereupon, at 11:25 a. m., the hearing was recessed until 11: 55 a. m., at which time the following proceedings were had:)
Mr. WOOD. Let the committee be in order. Let the record show that there are resent, of the members of the committee, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Potter, Mr. Kearney, and
Mr. Wood, a quorum of the full committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Paul Jarrico.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jarrico, will you please raise your right hand and be sworn. You solemnly swear the testimony you give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. JARRICO. I do. TESTIMONY OF PAUL JARRICO, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT W. KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS
