Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state your full name, spelling both your first and last names, please?
Mr. DECKER. My full name is Rubin, R-u-b-i-n; last name, Decker, D-e-c-k-e-r. 3696 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted that the witness is accompanied by counsel. Will counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. VOGEL. My name is Mortimer Vogel, V as in victory-o-g-e-l.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Decker?
Mr. DECKER. I was born in Cleveland, Ohio, August 12, 1915.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. DECKER. Here in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. DECKER. I am a musician. Excuse me a moment. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us, please, sir, your educational background?
Mr. DECKER. Yes; I would be very happy to. Before graduating-high school in Cleveland-I won two solo awards as violist, both citywide and statewide. I was a member of a string quarter and orchestra that won a national award in 1932. I was a scholarship student to the Interachen School of Music, which is a summer camp. Thereafter I attended Transylvania College in Lexington, Ky., also as a music scholarship student. And, if I may, it was here that I first received an education that I don't get in books. It is the education that had to do with denial of civil rights of 15 million people in the South. I wrote for the school paper, I wrote for the Civic. That is the city paper. I wrote music reviews, features. I graduated with a degree of bachelor of arts in English and journalism. I thereafter went to Indianapolis where I performed with the Indianapolis Symphony for 3 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. During what period of time was that?
Mr. DECKER. This was right after my graduation in 1938; 1938 to 1941. (Counsel confers with the witness.)
Mr. DECKER. Approximately; yes. And some time in 1941, I went on a countrywide and Canadian tour as a member of the All-American Youth Symphony Orchestra conducted by Leopold Stokowski. I attended a year of studying at the Manhattan School of Music in New York. On my return to Los Angeles I performed with the Warner Janssen Symphony, where, for a time, I played first viola.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return to California?
Mr. DECKER. I returned around 1941, about a year before I went into service, or shortly thereabouts. After my service in the Air Force I returned, went into one of the studios.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you returned to California in 1941. When were you in California prior to that time?
Mr. DECKER. It was quite intermittent: I came, then went back to finish college, and came back home and went back to go to the symphony, and I didn't stay too long in one place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just for short periods?
Mr. DECKER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed. 
Mr. DECKER. After my return from service I started to perform in the studios here.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that
Mr. DECKER. I came out of service in 1945. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3697 (Counsel confers with the witness.)
Mr. DECKER. Approximately. Shall I continue on education?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. DECKER. In 1948 I gave up my job at MGM Studio where I was under contract, and went to New Haven where I attended the School of Music at Yale University. It was here I got my bachelor of music degree, and master of music degree.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you go to New Haven?
Mr. DECKER. Around 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. What time in 1948?
Mr. DECKER. Well, it happened very quickly. At that point I was a little tired of studio work. I felt I needed more training. I felt I had more to learn before I could make myself the kind of musician I wanted to be. So, there was a quick exchange of telegrams between me and several music schools, and I attended Yale particularly because there was a composer there with whom I wanted to study.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the approximate date of your entrance at Yale? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. To the best of my recollection, it was the fall of 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. And prior to that time you were here in California?
Mr. DECKER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were you doing in California at that particular time? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. May 1 ask what you mean by "doing"? Nature of work?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. What was your occupation? How were you engaged ?
Mr. DECKER. Well, the musician's life being a very hazardous oneMr. TAVENNER. As a musician. Is that what you mean?
Mr. DECKER. Unfortunately, I have done many other things, of necessity, besides being a musician, because we have to eat. I have done everything from dig ditches to work in carnivals toMr. TAVENNER. Were you also a member of the Communist Party at that time ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that one of the various things?
Mr. DECKER. Are you serious in asking this question, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Mi DECKER. Because I thought we were-I thought we were talking about education, if I may say. Weren't we discussing education and training? This is what I thought.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; and you said you were engaged in various things at that time. So I am asking you whether you were a member of the Communist Party at that time.
Mr. DECKER. Well, if I may say, sir, I refuse to answer this question on the following grounds: One, I do not believe that this committee, under Public Law 601, which, as I understand it, was legislated into 3698 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA existence to investigate areas of subversive propaganda and activities-I feel that this committee by its very nature is operating in a sphere of ideas, opinions, associations, and that these ideas, opinions, and associations are guaranteed by the first amendment. And, if I may continue, I would like to quote here a very recent ruling by the Supreme Court in majority decisionMr. MOULDER. The committee is familiar with the decisions of the Supreme Court. Counsel has asked you a question, and you can decline to answer and state your reasons therefore without going into a great deal of argumentative statements concerning the committee. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. You have a right to claim the privilege under the Constitution if you wish.
Mr. DECKER. Sir, with due respect to you, I was asked a question, and 1 am trying to answer it in the best way I know how. I claim that I could not answer under the grounds of, one, this rule which puts the committee in existence, and, for this reason I would like to be able to quote the Supreme Court in a decision last year, since it pertains to my first reason for declamation, if I may be allowed.
Mr. MOULDER. IS it very long '
Mr. DECKER. NO; it is very short.
Mr. MOULDER. All right.
Mr. DECKER. This is a decision of Quinn v. United States Government, in May 1955. This pertains to Public Law 601: The power to investigate, broad as it may be, is also subject to recognized limitations. It cannot be used to inquire into private affairs unrelated to a valid legislative purpose. Nor does it extend to an area in which Congress is forbidden to legislate. Similarly, the power to investigate must not be confused with any of the powers of law enforcement; those powers are assigned under our Constitution to the executive and the judiciary. Still further limitations on the power to investigate are found in the specific individual guarantees of the Bill of Rights. It is quite short but very specific.
Mr. MOULDER. Are there any other reasons you wish to give? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. Yes; if I may be allowed to continue. I would like to decline on the basis of the first amendment, in which, as I gather generally, even though I have the amendments or the Bill of Rights here in front of me, Congress shall make no law abridging freedom of speech, press, or religion, or deny the citizen of right of people to peaceably assemble. I would like to say here, under the first amendment, that this also includes the artist who must be free to function in an atmosphere of freedom and nonconformity, free to function without fear or coercion. This is implicit in the first amendment. And also, in terms of association, I have the right to play where I want to, with whom I want to, wherever I want to. I have the right to interpret my music my way, and have no one tell me how to do it.
Mr. MOULDER. As chairman of this subcommittee, I feel it my duty to advise you the committee does not argue with you about those privileges and freedoms and rights. The simple question was asked you as to whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party during that period of time. And COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3699 our Supreme Court has held that the Communist Party is a conspiracy, that it is a subversive activity, and is a threat to our form of government in America. Therefore, what you are saying is very remote and has no connection with the question propounded. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I believe I am still on my reasons. I mentioned one of the reasons I declined was on the basis-Mr. SCHERER. Witness, you are making a speech. We understand. We have read those decisions.
Mr. DECKER. Am I allowed to continue my reasons?
Mr. SCHERER. The chairman may allow you to continue. I just wanted to call attention to that.
Mr. MOULDER. No; I will not allow you to continue along that vein.
Mr. DECKER. Would you withdraw the question, sir?
Mr. MOULDER. There is no argument. You are speaking to defend your attitude by making statements which we all believe in and which we all will defend.
Mr. JACKSON. The only reasons, if I may say, Mr. Chairman, which have any valid standing before the committee are the constitutional provisions which are available to a witness. It is not necessary to extend your remarks at any considerable length. Those provisions are available to you, and it is extraneous to go into any additional comment. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I can understand this, Mr. Jackson, and I will promise, or try to keep my remarks as close to the actual amendments and privileges as I can. It is just I feel very strongly about this particular area of the colorature of the musical, which is why I brought it in even though I realize it may not have anything to do with the legal. I will try to keep it down.
Mr. SCHERER. You can play all you want, any place you want, play anything you want. We don't care. We are not interested.
Mr. DECKER. On the contrary, you are very interested because I am losing my job because you are here telling me what to play.
Mr. MOULDER. Why are you losing your job? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. Because I work in a very sensitive industry at present, as I am sure you are well aware. The fact of havingMr. MOULDER. May I ask you this question before you finish that one: Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. DECKER. Are you withdrawing the other question then?
Mr. MOULDER. No, we are not withdrawing that, but I want to ask you that question.
Mr. DECKER. I would rather finish one question before I go to the other.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask you to direct the witness to answer your question whether he is now a Communist.
Mr. MOULDER. You are directed to answer whether or not you are now a member of the Communist Party. I think it is evident you are. 77436-5-pt. 7- 3700 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. Well, I will have to refuse to answer that question on the following constitutional grounds, and may I be allowed to continue then. I will go into the next reason why I cannot answer this question.
Mr. SCHERER. Maybe it is because you aren't answering the question that you are going to lose your job. Is that the reason? Because you are invoking the fifth amendment?
Mr. DECKER. May I be allowed to continue, Mr. Chairman, without interruption ?
Mr. SCHERER. You said you were losing your job because you were appearing before this committee.
Mr. DECKER. Mr. Chairman, may I be allowed to answer? 
Mr. MOULDER. You are entitled to decline to answer or claim the privilege under the Constitution in refusing to answer.
Mr. DECKER. That is what I am trying to do, if this gentleman on my right will allow me.
Mr. MOULDER. It is a very brief procedure for you to say that you are.
Mr. DOYLE. I would suggest to the witness that, instead of reading the prepared speech you have on those 12 or 15 cards which you hold in your hand, why don't you plead your constitutional privilege. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. We will respect that and you respect it, and thank God that is the Constitution of the United States. But we do not have time for you to make a speech before this committee. Give your reasons. We respect them and honor them, and that is your privilege.
Mr. DECKER. Thank you very much, Mr. Doyle. However, I am not making a speech really. These are a few notes I am using to refresh my memory.
Mr. DOYLE. The 12 or 15 cards which you have in your hand are more than just a few notes. It is a prepared antagonistic speech against the function of the committee. And that is not your constitutional reason.
Mr. DECKER. I am not even here being antagonistic, actually, even though I can't see why you are here meddling in our union. However, I am trying to be polite. I am trying to answer on the basis of the constitutional reasons.
Mr. DOYLE. We haven't mentioned your union. You are the one who brought that up now. You are the first one to bring it up this afternoon. We haven't mentioned it. That is what you are trying to do, to show that we are interfering with your union. And we are not, and we won't. Maybe it is the operation of the Communist cell within the union that is interfering with the union. I surmise that it is, from some of the testimony this morning. And from some of the testimony we will have this afternoon, I surmise that the thing that is interfering with the ordinary processes of your union, the way an American federation of musicians should function, is the attempt of the Communists within your union to control the policy of your union in favor of the Communist cell instead of organized labor as it ought to be conducted. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3701 We are not interfering with your union. We are going to interfere with communism wherever it is. You might just as well know that. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MoULDER. There is something that preys upon me heavily. You say you are about to lose your position of employment as a result of your appearance before this committee. Are you about to lose your position of employment because you are a Communist, which your employer did not know before you were subpenaed to appear before this committee? Is that the reason ?
Mr. DECKER. There is a question that has been asked me, and I am trying to answer it. I am in the process of answering this original question. May I be allowed to continue on the original question, and if you would please restate it to me.
Mr. MOULDER. Just a moment, please. Will you suspend ? (The committee confers.)
Mr. MOULDER. All right, proceed. Now, shall we, in order to clear the record, go back to the original question propounded to you by Mr. Tavenner. That is whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party at the time he referred to in the testimony; is that it, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TA\VENNER. Mr. Decker, you testified that prior to your going to New Haven you were engaged in various occupations here in the city of Los Angeles, and I asked you whether or not one of them was work in the Communist Party. So far you have declined to answer. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. Yes; I have declined to answer, and I have been in the process of giving the grounds for my declination. I would like to further decline to answer that question, if I may continue, on the basis of the first amendment which states, in terms of associations, freedom of speech, freedom of the press. I believe one of the important associations-and I believe this is one of the reasons, again, why I am here-is the right of associationMr. MOULDER. Very well, you decline to answer on the basis of theMr. DECKER. On the first amendment.
Mr. MOULDER. All right, that is understood. We all know what the first amendment stands for, and it speaks for itself. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. There are further reasons which I would like to be allowed to finish, if I may.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I want to indicate that I will object to any extraneous matter, and ask that it be stricken from the record. By that I mean anything not in the nature of a constitutional reason for declining to answer the question. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. That objection will be sustained unless there is opposition on the part of any other member of the committee. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. Do you wish me to proceed on the reasons for my refusing to answer the question?
Mr. MOULDER. You have covered the first amendment. Let's proceed from there without a discussion. We don't want to go into a 3702 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA detailed explanation of what your interpretation or understanding of the first amendment is. It speaks for itself. And our courts will construe the meaning of the first amendment. You claimed the first amendment. Proceed from there.
Mr. DECKER. Well, I am claiming the first amendment in its very specific and implicit statements contained within it which pertain to freedom of speech, press, and association.
Mr. MOULDER. Yes; it speaks for itself.
Mr. DECKER. And one of the associations is that of the association to workMr. JACKSON. I ask that this be stricken from the record.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to refrain from making a speech and comments concerning the first amendment. As I say, it speaks for itself as your reason and cause for declining to answer the the question.
Mr. DECKER. I, therefore, would further decline on the grounds of the fourth amendment, which is the right of people to be secure in their homes, persons, papers, effects, and so forth.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well.
Mr. DECKER. In this relation, I feel by being hereMr. JACKSON. I ask that any additional conversation on the point of the fourth amendment be stricken from the record.
Mr. DECKER. This has to do with privacy. My name has been splattered all over the front page. My pictures will be in the front pages. This is being denied privacy, sir. This is why I feel I can use this amendment.
Mr. JACKSON. You are entitled to use the amendment. No one is questioning your right to.
Mr. DECKER. Thank you.
Mr. JACKSON. We are simply saying that there is no necessity for making a speech after having claimed the provision. I ask the reporter be instructed to strike out all after the claim of the fourth amendment.
Mr. MOULDER. The record should speak for itself in that regard. However, conducting yourself as a witness as you are, it is our duty to advise and inform you for your own protection, that as a result of your conduct in refusing to answer, by giving argumentative interpretations which you may have in construing the Constitution, you might be guilty of contempt. Therefore, you are directed to answer the question without going into great detail and argument, haranguing about what you believe the amendment to the Constitution stands for. Your mere reference to them in declining to answer is sufficient.
Mr. DECKER. I am trying to answer them to the best of my ability, sir. I really am. I am one of these talkative guys.
Mr. SCHERER. All except when it comes to telling us whether or not you are a Communist. Then you are not talkative. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. As I understand, you decline to answer claiming the protection of the first amendment and the fourth amendment. Are there any other amendments to the Constitution which you intend to claim ?
Mr. DECKER. Yes; there are. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3703 (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I would further like to decline to answer this question on the basis of the sixth amendment, which, again, I would care to mention the fact of having the right to have an impartial jury, to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation, to be confronted by witnesses against me. And, again, if I may, I would like to quote the recent Supreme Court decisionMr. MOULDER. May I say to you that you are not being charged with anything before this committee. You are being called here as an American citizen to give this committee any information that you may have concerning communistic activities which the Supreme Court, the law of our land, has declared to be a subversive activity and a conspiracy to overthrow our Government, the kind of government we now enjoy in this country. You are not charged with anything. We are not accusing you of violating the law or committing any crime. We are merely trying to get information concerning communistic and subversive activities. But you seem to be hesitant, or at least completely contrary, to the idea of giving any such information if you have any. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. I submit he has had time enough to answer the question. I suggest we pass to the next question.
Mr. DECKER. Are you withdrawing the question, sir?
Mr. SCHEER. No. 
Mr. DECKER. Otherwise, I am in the process of answering it, and I will do so.
Mr. MOULDER. You took the first amendment, fourth, and then you skipped to the sixth. You are not claiming the fifth?
Mr. DECKER. I don't believe I finished my declination.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed. 
Mr. DECKER. I have the privilege of doing so under your rules.
Mr. MOULDER. We don't want to deprive you of the right to claim the protection of the provisions of the Constitution or any amendment you wish to. Proceed.
Mr. DECKER. I realize. I don't want to take any more of your time than- (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. This is a studied plan to delay the work of this committee. It is obvious since we started this morning.
Mr. MOULDER. You claim the first, fourth, and sixth amendments as I understand it.
Mr. DECKER. That is so. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. With the assistance of the lawyers who are appearing ?
Mr. VOGEL. May I say I think we have a right to advise our witness as we see fit. I think that remark is entirely uncalled for, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. That is correct. The witness has a right to confer, to be represented by and to confer with counsel.
Mr. VOGEL. I think Mr. Scherer is entirely out of place making any comment regarding any of the attorneys present. I think everybody is entitled to be represented by counsel. 3704 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA If Mr. Scherer doesn't know, we know it.
Mr. SCHERER. I repeat what I said. I think it is a studied planMr. MOULDER. Let's proceed. What other provisions do you wish to claim? Proceed with your reasons for declining to answer, by briefly stating the provisions of the Constitution without giving us a big opinion on it. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. Finally, I refuse, I decline to answer this question on the grounds of the fifth amendment which deals with capital punishment, or grand jury rather for capital offenses, and not being compelled to be a witness against oneself in criminal cases-which, by the may, I cannot see is the issue here at all-nor can the citizen be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law.
Mr. MOULDER. May I interrupt you there to ask you this: In the event you were granted immunity and protected from criminal prosecution or incriminating yourself in any way whatsoever by answering the questions that are propounded to you; would you do so? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. It would seem to me, sir, that this is an "iffy" question which I would refuse to answer in the same way, as it follows logically I am refusing to answer the question that you asked me previously.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you now a member of the Communits Party?
Mr. DECKER. I would have to decline to answer that questionMr. JACKSON. You would not have to. Do you?
Mr. DECKER. I do decline to answer that question for the following reasons: on the grounds of the fifth amendment which guarantees me due process, not to be deprived of life, liberty, or property, and, in this connection, I feel comes not just liberty but there is also financial and economic liberty, the liberty of being able to eat and not be blacklisted.
Mr. MOULDER. That is sufficient. Any further questions, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I think, for the benefit of the record, I should call attention to the fact that the witness, in quoting the Quinn case, a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, did not make it plain that that case did not involve at all any sphere of examination of a witness by this committee. What that case involved was the question of whether or not it was properly understood by the witness that he was being directed to answer. And I mention that for the record because it has been persistently claimed in certain sources that have been attacking this committee in exactly the same language used by this witness.
Mr. DECKER. Is there a question to be directed at me, sir, at this point? I sort of lost track.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, may I, right at this point, supplement what our distinguished legal counsel has said. I have the opinion of Thomas Quinn v. U. S. of America, May 23, 1955, before me. And the witness has read just a few sentences in paragraph 1, page 5. He did not read all of it, and I want to read COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3705 that part of the same paragraph from which the witness only took a few sentences to serve his needs: There can be no doubt as to the power of Congress, by itself or through its committees, to investigate matters and conditions relating to contemplated legislation. This power, deeply rooted in American and English institutions, is indeed co-extensive with the power to legislate. Without the power to investigateincluding, of course, the authority to compel testimony, either through its processes or through judicial trial-Congress could be seriously handicapped in its efforts to exercise its constitutional function wisely and effectively. At that point, Mr. Chairman, too, I think it is timely to call attention to the fact that there have been certain full-page advertisements by a certain committee, and in all the advertisements it was stated that this decision, Quinn v. U. S. of America, was a unanimous decision. That statement is absolutely false, and I believe it was known to be false by these people who are circulating this bunkum about this committee. The fact is that there were two dissents from this decision. And yet in all of the testimony, in all of the circulars-and I have here a copy of a certain paper published April 12-it says: This usurpation of power by the committee recently was denounced by the United States Supreme Court in a unanimous decision. It was not unanimous. It was, in my judgment, a deliberate, false, and untrue statement for the purpose of prejudicing patriotic American citizens against a committee of the United States Congress. I have here a telegram, dated March 20, 1956, from a Mr. Rev. A. Heist, chairman, Citizens Committee To Preserve American Freedoms, 4274 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, the committee publishing this false and untrue statement about the decision of the Supreme Court. And this telegram to me reads: In overruling the House Un-American Activities Committee citation of contempt against Quinn, the United States Supreme Court, in unanimous decision, handed down by Chief Justice Warren-" And again I want to say that Reverend Heist and his committee are deliberately misrepresenting the decision of the United States Supreme Court. I felt it important that all those within hearing of my voice should know what the truth is. We have the decision right here, the full decision. The advertisements and the propaganda against the committee which have been circulated by Reverend Heist and his alleged committee to preserve American freedoms is a bunch of bunkum, and most of it is untrue and unfounded, especially with reference to this Supreme Court decision which was quoted by this witness.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Decker, were you counseled by the Communist Party or any member of the Communist Party to engage in a program of advancing the interests of the Independent Progressive Party in 1948 ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I will refuse to answer this question on the grounds previously given, on the grounds of the first, fifth, fourth, ninth, and tenth amendments, which I never got to, by the way, only because I was interrupted so many times.
Mr. JACKSON. You got to it in time. 3706 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. We will include it by reference.
Mr. DECKER. Fine. That still gives us, the people, powers that you gentlemen don't have.
Mr. T AVENNER. Were you aware of the plan by the Communist Party to promote the interests of the Independent Progressive Party by circulating petitions to put it on the ballot in California in 1948 ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I thought I just answered this question, which I further, again, refuse to answer for the same reasons, on the basis of the first, fifth, ninth, tenth, and sixth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you aware of a campaign by the Communist Party to secure the registration of its members as members of the Independent Progressive Party ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. Sir, this seems to be variations on the same theme. I thought I just answered this question. And, again, I would refuse to answer the question for the reasons previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of an affidavit of registration of a person by the name of Rubin Decker, sworn to on the 23d day of February 1948, stating that that person intends to affiliate in the ensuing primary election with the Independent Progressive Party of California. Will you examine it, please, and state whether or not that is your affidavit? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAYENNER. The document is marked for identification only as "Decker Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. DECKER. I might ask, Mr. Counsel, had you intended to investigate the Democratic Party, too, since McCarthy said it had 20 years of treason behind it?
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly we might know more about that if you would tell us what you know about the Independent Progressive Party. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I refuse to answer this question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments, and those previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Decker Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered. (This exhibit is similar to Waddilove exhibit No. 1, p. 3664, and will not be reproduced in the printed record; it is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you sign an affidavit of registration in the Independent Progressive Party under sworn statement of February 28,1952? I hand you a photostatic copy of that document which is marked for identification only as "Decker Exhibit No. 2." (The witness confers with his counsel, and examines document.)
Mr. DECKER. I would refuse to answer this question also on the basis of the first or fifth with the question, in return, as to why it is necessary to be investigating anybody's registration in any nature, manner, or form. By what right are you here to investigate anybody's personalMr. TAVENNER. I will try to make that clear to you.
Mr. DECKER. If you would. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3707 
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has received testimony at various places in the State of California as to the part the Communist Party was playing in those areas in the formation of the Independent Progressive Party. The committee has heard evidence as to how the Communist Party in certain places has endeavored to function through the Independent Progressive Party as one of the largest mass organizations of the Communist Party that has ever been formed in this country. You can be of material.assistance to this committee if you would give any facts within your knowledge relating to the same type of activities in this respect. So I will call upon you to do it. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DoYLE. May I supplement our counsel's fine statement for the benefit of the witness on that point because I am sure Mr. Decker was in the hearing room this morning. I am sure I saw him here when
Mr. Waddilove was testifying. I am sure Mr. Decker heard Mr. Waddilove answer when I asked him whether or not the IPP was formed as a front of the Communist Party in California, in this wayand I am sure Mr. Decker heard him say, "In actuality, that is what it was." Now that is one reason we are asking you about your activities in connection with the formation of the IPP in California, because not only Waddilove, but you heard me state this morning we had former top IPP leaders and former top Communist leaders in California testify that the IPP did become a Communist-front party in California. That is why we are asking you as to your registration. We believe you know something about that.
Mr. MOULDER. The remarks made by the witness will be stricken from the record. (Accordingly, the remarks by the witness were stricken from the record.)
Mr. SCHERER. I have one question. Was anything that Mr. Waddilove said untrue ?
Mr. DECKER. I refuse to answer that question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. SCHERER. Here you attack a previous witness as bitterly as you have, and then, when you are given the opportunity to say whether any of his testimony is untrue, you hesitate and refuse to do so.
Mr. DECKER. I didn't attack him. I feel sorry for him.
Mr. SCHERER. You didn't attack him ? 
Mr. DECKER. I think everybody else in this room did, too.
Mr. SCHERER. I am asking you now, Is anything that witness said this morning under oath untrue ? Let's hear your answer. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. If so, what ?
Mr. SCHERER. And if so, what did he say that was untrue ? And if you say that he perjured himself in any way, I am going to have his testimony and your testimony referred to the Department of Justice and see who is perjuring himself. You now have your opportunity to deny or to say whether this witness that you attacked so bitterly, who was under oath the same as you, told the committe anything that was untrue. 3708 COMMVIUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DECKER. I would have to refuse to answer that question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. SCHERER. I thought you would.
Mr. DECKER. And while I am doing so I would like you to know,
Mr. Scherer, you are from my home State, aren't you? I would also like to remind you that only last month the Supreme Court had this to say about the practice of imputing a sinister meaning to anybody who exercises his constitutional privileges under the fifthMr. SCHERER. I am not imputing a sinister means. You have attacked this witness, and I am giving you your opportunity nowMr. DECKER. I told you I was sorry for him and did not attack him.
Mr. SCHERER (continuing). Of saying whether or not he said anything that was untrue.
Mr. DECKER. Again I would refuse to answer this question.
Mr. SCHERER. Now we know which witness to believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to introduce in evidence document marked "Decker Exhibit No. 2."
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered. (This exhibit is similar to Waddilove exhibit No. 2, p. 3665, and will not be reproduced in the printed record; it is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand the witness a third document marked for identification only as "Decker Exhibit No. 3," and ask him to tell the committee what it is. (The witness and his counsel examine document.)
Mr. DECKER. I would have to refuse to answer this question for the reasons previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS it an Independent Progressive Party petition which you circulated and at the bottom of which you signed an affidavit that you did circulate it, the date of the affidavit being January 2, 1948 ?
Mr. DECKER. I would refuse to answer that question also on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer in evidence, the document marked "Decker Exhibit No. 3."
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered. (This exhibit is similar to Waddilove exhibit No. 3, p. 3667, and will not be reproduced in the printed record; it is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of various businesses that you were in prior to 1948. Have you been in any business other than that of practicing your profession as a musician since 1948? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I wonder if you would mind restating the question. I don't know whether you meant before 1948 or after 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. I said since 1948.
Mr. DECKER. Since 1948. In 1951 I returned to Los Angeles with a master's degree in music, and I went to work cleaning windows and carrying lumber and digging ditches. I think this you gentlemen should know, too. Perhaps while you are here in Los Angeles you can gather some information that may help the musicians' unemployment problem which constitutes about 80 percent of the membership. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3709 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you also engage in teaching music? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I would have to refuse to answer that on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you refuse to answer?
Mr. DECKER. I do.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you engage in teaching music? You had your master's degree and then you came home here and began handling lumber. You became a part-time teacher of music, when you came home in 1951? If so, can you possibly be incriminated from teaching music ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. What is there about teaching music that would incriminate you if you told the truth?
Mr. DECKER. If you will give me the reason why you want to know, or have any evidence to show I did something that I didn't doMr. DOYLE. We don't claim teaching music incriminates you. We .are surprised that you are pleading the amendment. What are you ashamed of in teaching music? What is criminal about that?
Mr. DECKER. I have nothing to be ashamed of in anything that I have ever done at any time in my life, Mr. Doyle. I have had a pretty proud record, and I have worked hard for what I have learned.
Mr. JACKSON. Why don't you talk about your record? Why don't you talk about your record in the Communist Party if you are proud of it? You have an opportunity. You have a forum here to do it. If you are so blasted proud of your record, why don't you talk about it?
Mr. DECKER. Let me tell you, Mr. Jackson, any time you want to get out of this committee and where I am not under oath here, or not here at your command, and on the outside, I will be very happy to discuss anything.
Mr. JACKSON. I wouldn't believe anything you said not under oath.
Mr. MOULDER. Let us proceed. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DECKER. I am refusing to answer that question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. SCHERER. May I pose this question, Mr. Chairman: This witness has just said, on two different occasions in the last few minutes, that he has done nothing that is wrong during his whole career. How can he invoke the fifth amendment?
Mr. DECKER. It seems to me that I have a quote here also from a Supreme Court decisionMr. DOYLE. To what decision do you refer?
Mr. DECKER. That the privilege, sir, is to protect the innocent who otherwise might be ensnared by ambiguous circumstances. Being here is, let me tell you, an ambiguous circumstance.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you innocent of having been ensnared by ambiguous circumstances? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. I ask that the witness be excused, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. The question was asked you, whether or not you engaged in the teaching vocation or profession. Do you decline to answer it?
Mr. DECKER. Yes; I do. 3710 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. MOULDER. I will ask you this question: Was your reason for declining to answer that question based upon the fact that you were teaching Communist policy or teaching in a Communist class or teaching Communist philosophy?
Mr. DOYLE. I understood he was teaching music.
Mr. DECKER. I will answer this one.
Mr. MOULDER. YOU can answer that and clear yourself of any inference as a result of your refusal to answer the other questions.
Mr. DECKER. I refuse to answer on the basis of the first or fifth amendment. However, I wish that we here could all take a look at that French horn on this article that you are talking about, Mr. Doyle, and showing all of us peering into the French horn looking for subversive notes and things. It is sort of silly to me, you know. I play the viola. I am a very good one.
Mr. DOYLE. You can ridicule it if you want, but I think it is serious when a bunch of American musicians have in their membership a group of known Communists. And one of them was here this morning and testified that he had been a Communist. He didn't claim that . investigating communism among musicians would hurt music. And you are trying to ridicule it. It is not a joking matter, I want to assure you, to find American musicians hiding behind music to distribute Communist bunkum.
Mr. DECKER. I don't think it is funny either. I think it is very serious, too, Mr. Doyle. I would suggest maybe you ought to find out about this attack on Nat King Cofe in the South recently if you are so interested in that.
Mr. DOYLE. You see, it happens to be that some of us are.
Mr. MOULDER. I would make a statement in that respect, that that is probably communistically inspired.
Mr. DECKER. Not at all. I am asking it as an equally good American, as good as Mr. Jackson here.
Mr. JACKSON. Just a minute on that note. That is going to be one of the themes running through the testimony of all of these witnesses. "Why don't you go to Mississippi to investigate an assault? Why don't you investigate this attack or that attack?" This committee is not established for the purposes of law enforcement in crimes of violence. Those matters are within the jurisdiction of police departments, State officials, and other agencies constituted. We have one specific charge laid upon this committee. It is a charge which, if you will take the trouble to read Public Law 601, you will understand better than you do now. So far as this plaint, and cry, "Why don't you go out and find somebody who knocked somebody else over the head" is concerned it is fallacious.
Mr. MOULDER. Let's proceed as rapidly as possible.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Questions, Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. SCHERER. NO questions.
Mr. MOULDER. You are excused as a witness. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DECKER. Thank you very much.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. 3711 You have been very kind. MOULDER. Call your next witness. TAVENNER. Mr. Joe Pass. MOULDER. Is this Mr. Joe Pass? PAss. Yes. 
Mr. MOULDER. Would you hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you, God ?
Mr. PAss. Yes, sir. TESTIMONY OF JOE PASS, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, FRANK S. PESTANA
