Miss ,,v .Irr. Jody Gilbert.
Mr. TAv'NNnE. Will you spell your first name, please?
Miss Gi, itm. J-o-d-y.
Mr. TAvENrNva. Are you accompanied by counselI
Miss Gmnnmrr. Yes; I am. 'There isn't room for both of them. Could we do something about that? I would be all right by myself, believe me. I am happy to have them with me.
Mr. TAvrNN R. Wil1 counsel please identify themselves?
Mr. MANsIALL. Daniel 0. Marshall, Los Angeles.
Mr. EHsrRMAN. William 13. Esterman, Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you born?
Miss (nin.nr. Fort Worth, Tex.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been f
Miss OiLumrr. Well, I went through high school in Texas, but I don't like to leave it at that because since I was 4 years old I hsve 462 COMMUN;IST ACTIVITIES IN TH1 OS9 ANOR AJELAINA ben training and preparing and studying to work at my profes ion, There has been consireiernble training of one kind or anbtFier since I was 4 years old. I consider this part of my education right now.
Mr. SCHERER. I am sorry, 1 con't hear the witness.
Mr. Vaimni. Will the witness please 'alse her volef
Miss O(in~arr. Which mikef There are four of them.
Mr. VaLim. The long one, I believe.
Mr. TAvwsP.R. What is your profesiionf
Miss (n ErT. Now I
Mr. TAVmnXNIR. Yes. 
Miss GII41IwT. That is a little bit (iiffcilt to say. My l)rofemsion at the moment is as a witness.
Mr. ''AvENNYR. Well, what has your profession been in recent weeks or months or yeam. 
Miss GILB.RT. Wees?
Mr. TAV:ENNER. U4onths or years.
Miss GILnERT. Months or years?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Miss GILBECRT. I have been man1111y things. I have been an actress in the theater, radio, television, movies. I forgot the movies; I ani sorry have been a teacher and I have been a student. us begin with your career as an actress. Would you describe in a general way-not in great detail-what yourMiss iU.FRT. My first appearance, or my first 11iovie or my first r.TAVF NNtIt. Let radio show or my first television show? 
Mr. TAv'.NN.R (continuing). What the record of your profession has been. If you were entitled to screen credits and received them in moving pictures or in radio, or any other matter, we would like to know just, what it has been.
Miss GmaRT.Well, the reason I speak a little slowly-and I hope you won't infer from the fact I may sometimes stop to think before
Mr.T^AvFNNER. We would prefer you to stop and think.
Miss Gnaxmr. I am not dangerous or ill, but it is simply because I did swear to tell you the truth, and I have to stop and think before I speak..ed. I wa little bit surprised myself when I sat down to count up the score the other night,because i didn't realize that I had such a fine career, because I was such an unimportant person, you see, the person that the Hollywood trade papers referred to as a goodMr. TAVENF.R. Now, will you answer my question, pleaseI
Miss GI=T. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENX. What are your screen credits?
Miss GILBEr. It is hard to remember the work that you do. Put it this way: From 1932 to 1938 1 worked mainly in the theater. From 1938 to-no, because I was in pictures before there was a Screen Writers' Guild-from 1937 to 1947 1 worked mainly in pictures.
Miss GuL1I.RaT. What were the main screen credits that you re- ceived?
Miss Giiwr. Well, like IMi.TAvz Nr. Beinnig in 1038 to 1948.
Miss Guam. I did a hundred.and-thirty-some-odd pictures, and it is a little difficult- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 463 
Mr. TAVENN . I didn't ask yo for it detailed st4atemnont. I just want the coiniitteo to have Just, some general idea. Screen credit?
Miss (nmumnr.
Mr. TAvrnNPMt. Yes. Miq Giwwr. That is hard to remember, because I particularly remember the people I worked with. You know, I don't mind being called yesterday morning and having to sit, here all day waiting for oil to tt 1ne on, because I am neclitoined to that in the films, you when they say 10 o'clock, hoping they will be able to use you)WHO
Mr. TAVRNNEIt,. If you will just. confine, yourself to answering my questions.
Miss GLmuaty. I hope that you will stop me, Mr.' Tavenner, because I talk too much, like most women.
Mr. 'AVENNER. I will (10 o.
Mr. CIARoY. The are some witnesses who don't talk too much.
Miss Gu.ipwr. Well, the Long Beach papers said that I would be a talkative witness, and I don't want to disprove anything that is printed in the press.
Mr. TAVHNNER. Just tell the committee what your principal screen credits have been during the period froimn 19:38 to 1948.
Miss Gnaimnr. Well, I mean anything I dil-you know, I did pictures with Gary Cooper, for one, a couple with #John Wayne, andMr. 'l'AVPNNER. What were they?
Miss GimLBrT. I beg your pardonI
Mr. T1AVENNER~. I sayv,will you tell us what they were?
Miss GILBER. 'rhe picturesV One of the pictures I remember that I did with Cooper was the first one for which lie won the Academy Award, and the second picture that I did with Gary Cooper I remem- ber specifically because he is such a fine actor.
Mr. TAvrNNEIt. My only question-just a moment,, please. My only questionMisq GnptT. The second picture was with Mr. DeMille.
Mr. TAviE-NNE. If you will just confine yourself to answering my questions and naming the pictures, that is 'all I have asked you.
Miss GILBERT. Well, I remember those two specifically.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any other pictures that you received screen credits for, major screen pictures?
Miss GimiBRT. Oh, I am so sorry. ,I didn't know-you want the screen credit--because I don't think I received screen credits for many of them at all. I received very good notices.
Mr. TAVEFn. All right, then, I will change that question and ask you what were some of the major pictures in which you took part?
Miss Gitrr. Well now, that again is a matter of semantics. I have given you two or three major pictures. The one that I remember most is the one that I-the one I remember the most is one in which I got the best notices.
Mr. TAP1ER. You are still not answering, and I will have to with. draw my question, because you don't make your answers responsive. GILiRT. I am terribly sorry, Mr. Tavenner, but I worked in
Miss so Mr. many o pictures. VENfA .PYes. Well let's leave the field of moving pictures and let me ask you what has been your major participation in radio scenes and in exhibitions. 464 (IOMMUIJNW Ai lkl'AV . AUViVITIH-1 . Y~libLO. IN Till, 1,014 AN(II'1 AUI-A i Alidl()1FIn. I lwnl!d 1)(I gladl to. AMy maiijor I-oh WhieOI I p~laIyed ill radsi41/ yeit's was Il it j 111091,11t11 ('llh(l-ynl itse 5t't' titt er it pa b Hel 11od illies, bMetie ID !io 1111l0iiw111go w 14o oft cii. ft, wits Isl-t ClfedW h itt1 111lguigi.ldto 1111 Willi theti ebtIliged 14) All. ''AVF;NNku. What Other major01 1)(114fn-itia1,110 part illV haUvO YOU 1,a11(0 ANis 0SS hi11mat'. It WouldIII lmos iihlIU)O4L ibjt*il fOt' 1110 to411,is1Wei that qltiti~oll withlitt gott itig liy I't'(oidS4. LWill bt, glado t,, if yoU llit. 111la lrD111 litillil l11iti 1. t&'(ord of it. All1'. TAVE.NNERl. 1 (1o 11nt. W0ti1, thlUI ill oletilil, 1111( if yoUl calmOt selemt. somle of' (lie lmltjorll' We WilIl just I0t, it'go Itt thatlk.. Air. TIAVIPNNF.11. Where did you Night yomr cartem- ill the theater ill l1)V We7ts it ill Los kil its Or waxs it inl Solm oftIll r plact).
Miss (3ii-ui:atc. I dhidnatH iL'. ill 1931". 1 biegunti li I WasL' 4 years old. You didn't ask mehow old I was?
Mr.'I~lI.~N~IINo. Mis (i~t:,a'.I on', iiioltelin 31.1 o yol want to 1(f0w'? MAr. TAVENNxit. No, I didn't ask y'ou. I find it is very dific-ult to ltlt'&'t (hle Wishtes of I he witlivs'.vs oil fIilltsubject. Mliss 1 utw.I don't taijud. if I willit to answer'itt Air. TIAVE~NNERU. Wity don't y-ou ask meo and find out Some actresses have takent exception to ily asking Alis.40thI11F.rr. That isn 'tilte, though. Air. rAVF:NNII. If you witat to vnlaantcea, it. is all rightt, but I din tnt asking yoi. Mir. 'IAViENNERi. Mll right. Then will you toll mne whero you beganl your career in the theater V AMilSs(ILaurr. When I wits4 years old, I told you. Mir. EirrJIMAX. Where?
Miss (hsmiwir. Mly first public appearance was wheni I was 4 years aid. Mir. TAmm.SNKIO. Where Mli." (3ilnml. Mt the Majestie Thleater in Fort Worth,T'ex. Mir. '1A'.NNF.R~. D~id you coIMe inttatitly fromt Texas to Lom Angels I
Miss m~irar. No.
Mr. TAExNFR. Where did you go, to Now Yorkf That is what I Am inquiring about. Ams (iu1ctarr. Well, 1 went through high school in Texas, I told you that. Then I went to New York, and I came out here and I wont back to New York, wherever I could find work. Mfr. TiNF.Well of counse, I am only interesed in what yor work has been since youhave been an adult, and I am trying to find out where it is.*
Miss (imur. Sine I have been an adult. Then we didn't have to go back that far. COMMUJNISTr AV WIITiI*4 IN TIIFK LOS ANOKLKH ARtKA Ait'. T I'I'NNI(. (OIIltldY itot. .101VOi ('IP(U it fteri tI-elinCio agre 465 WVill yoUl tell It" whoe yolu 1Oglti iiyuct"te Of mitt ii Otyo I 11,11 (ln'you 1liii1, lilml hel )(0 tile to grow 111 'l'lii IVwh. it is so0 (led.t t~lrt11( tile mititiq or 0111ti W0I'(lN. Ifr you Wotd give tt( it speific year, I will bp jdnld tobedl youl wherel- I wits 111141 101h1t. I illidoilig. All.TAIi-iNNtIAL'111 lifiil igsi tI0ie ute 81tfes ? Aiis( ?,fa'. 'I'll ~~r Well, 'ollIii(', yfitt Ni'. Mis 0. NEli 1.i'~I v iied I it en~i geim('i't hl oiver 1111' i'oltit ry ? i ot'writtl All. IAVE-NN EI. I WHI'lt 10 0Icitw Jll lE'i jiiily you I- awl ivit il'5lie bvoii' e'0111 ig to Los5 A iigeles. it15. Wli-I''o v is ufened ll MP,. TIAVENNER(. Y('S. Afiss (Iivimmrr As tilt iietresm? NI 1'. TAVI N N it. As lIi I vI('vss. Aliss ( uI,11111r. I siippose I liha emoei adIi Ju l my lif(', 1weatustbtis is I it( tlii ug t 11t1Juts i iiteresleE'I te (Ito0 most. NI I'.'IAVEN NCii. Wli', dhid o omi 1 to Lois Aiitgoles? All. TAV'EN NElR. Yes. NI ism ( aunmn'r. I liii e beeni ill Ilio Los Angueles aw iltiii it (('lit. visits hi('k mid1( for th to New York. All'. TIAVEN NEDI. All'. ( iltui 1ItmI), I tIliuk psi Sl'e i w 1912, with lit, Ibis point I should refer, to a1It'legilni wMOOic I reelivedl froiii it per-son by tile lilt1114P oft MIiss ,Jo 0,ilbr.t, J-0. MiSS (111,11:BT. I get ai lot of hier cheeks.
Mr.'l'i~'N Nil.Ateyoui iit-liminhd wit i fiss .Jo (Gihh'ert NI is ( 1iLB.IItT. I lit, ;11nd Nitr. Ve!lde mad1(e Ii request, this morning, so 1 (1i5(!'tt55e(l it Wilit mry litttorney whet lie' or, not. it wits a1lidvsalble t~o me'nt ionl t is person, and-iwe deeiilb'd tlnlt, We wold heaive it. 11t)(.0 tle C()lliltiit (Co ill Ibis regal 1(. BtHilsive you tisked, you khow, I Ili k shie should~ be iiteiit iotii'i, mid it couple of others, b; cause of thle sitnilainity lintnuimlud (lie typo of work (lint I do il il e kind of person I IlIltIle it list of seven people-i jim sire (hero arie it lot more%i'oselIt ten's I haive I'e(eiveol, tilt(] whose ('lt'Cks I hiavie n4'c'iv('d, iln( wllose phi i l will5 11( r((ht(sts for b~lujd ditik's, ,ioit know. And I (10111 U-'tlnt. kItitut eXCepIt Whltt I lIIiVe' got CIIlgtMeg 3'ot) see. So I I bought t lit t iese 'ix'o'ihe~s1"Ie I~)tb nltow Nil'. '1'AVE.N'NEl. 'Iiiii its mty purposes inl bringing Itp) thi atter. Mlissbur GIJE T 'Ib k you. Mir. VEWEu. Suppose y ou retd( thle telegnm, ('omisel, ito the record. Air. TAVENNER. I would like to read it. [Reading:] DRAR tir: If you call W~itness Joily (lltbert, way I. please htave complete IlenIin I lofl. I have been In radlo III years, ('likiugo, New York, Hollywoodl. In TV and moifon lkinres. 3ty4ar4. Imui not noir Ijave I ever been associated with tile comunist Party, ftnd aminot the sanme person as your witnetss. 8incep nows of pes.ilble c'alling of Jodty gilbert , huve received many phone coill and intist lnxlqt clarification Imetween yotir wlitio and mie. 31y uine legally I.s Josephine 0111bert. Professional name, Jo, (Jttwrt. My address. (4904 t'uinr.se D~rive. t 'bunt-3I?7-53 -0i. 2-3 466 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN T E LOS ANGELES AREA 
Miss G rmr. I have tried because I have had this trouble, I have always had my address and pitone number in the book,
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your address?
Miss GILBnrr. My address is in the phone book.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your street adress? Where do you resideI
Miss GILEtr. Well, before I say that, may I mention that I have had a little trouble, too, in giving out my address, as well as Miss Gilbert. I can certainly sympathize with her., I would like to say for the benefit of anyone whom I do not ask to visit me or phone me, that I am under the protection of the Congress of the United States and the Hollywood Police Department. I think that should be made very clear. (Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAvENNER. What is your address, please I 
Miss GILBERT. My address, which has always been in the phone book, is 13251/2 North Bronson. And my phone number, if you want It- 
Mr. TAVENNER. No. 
Miss GILBERT. It is in the book.
Mr. TAVENNER. I can look it up if I need it.
Miss GILBERT. Thank you.
Mr. TAVEbNNR. The committee has received tite testimony of Mr. Narcisenfeld.
Miss GILBERT. Who? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Narcisenfeld, N-a-r-c-i-s-e-n-f-e-l-d. His first name is Harvey.
Miss GILBERT. Who? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Harvey Narcisenfeld.
Miss GILBERT. Would you spell the last name, please? 
Mr. TAvNER. The spelling was N-a-r-c-i-s-e-n-f-e-l-d.
Miss GILBERT. One moment. May I confer with my counsel? 
Mr. Tavenner, would it be possible for us to confer for about 2 minutes? It is a little difficult. Nobody is more aware of dead air than I am.
Mr. TAvE ER. I am willing for you to consult with counsel, of course, but I haven't asked you a question yet.
Miss GILBERT. I know you haven't, but this creates a question for me, you see. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well.
Miss GILBERT. Go ahead, Mr. Tavenner. I am sorry I interrupted you. 
Mr. TAVEXNER. It is quite all right. You have been identified as having been a member of the Communist Party byMiss GILBERT. "You are all going to have to be quiet, because I can't hear. I beg your pardon. M'. vzE Let's a have order please.
Miss GILBERT. Thank youMr. Velde.
Mr. TA vFJNER. I Say you have been identified by Mr. Harvey Narcisenfeld as having been a member of the Communist Party, and I want to ask you about that. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA
Miss GiLBERT. Do you really expect me to answer that? 
Miss You hope I will I 467 
Mr. J'AENNER. Well, I hope you will. GuILBRT. 
Mr. TAVENNEI. Yes.
Miss GILBERT. Why didn't you conte to my house and ask me that, or bring ie down here quietly'?
Mr.TAVENNE . Mr. Chairman, I ask that she be directed to answer the question.
Mr. VELuE. Yes, Miss Gilbert, you are directed to answer that question. It is very simple and entirely in accord with your rights in this matter.
Miss GILBERT. Do you direct me to answer this question, Mr. Veldef
Mr. VELDE. Yes, Miss Gilbert, please.
Miss GILBERT. Thank you Mr. Velde. I hope you will be quiet because I am an actress and I am accustoied to these lights and le mikes and everything else, but I hope that these people will not infer that because Istop to think before I speak, thit there is anything guilty connected with it. I decline theprivilege of answering this question, and I have certain grounds on which I decline, and I would like to invoke the 19th amendment, which gives me equal rights to decline, and have just a few' moments to answer it. 
Mr. TAvENz;. Well, we understand that that is one ground. Do you have any other ground I
Miss GILBERT. I have not given my legal grounds, Mr. Tavenner. I have asked for just a moment to give my legal grounds,
Mr. TAVzNNER. I understood you to say that you were relying on the 19th amendment.
Miss GILnErr. I did not say that. I said that I would like to invoke the privilege of relying on the 19th amendment. Is it permitted, Mr.-VeldeV
Mr. VELDE. Certainly.
Miss GiLBERT. Thank you. I have certain grounds, certain very definite grounds, Mr. Tavenner. Ifyou don't photographers mind, I will ose . for you afterward; I will be glad to~addressing
Mr. TAvEzqNF. There is no one attempting to photograph you. 
Miss Gnmrr. The Herald-Express put such an ugly picture in the paper of ine the other day my mother tore it up.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I think I have the same complaint to make.
Mr. VELDE. Please'proceed.
Miss GuzEwr. I am terribly sorry. I am trying to concentrate.
Mr. VALD. This is a serious matter. 
Miss Gumr. It certainly is. I lost my job. My grounds for declining what I consider to be the priilege of answering this question don't have anything to do with the press or the cameras or the people that are watching, or anything, except for the very profound respect in which I hold the Congress of the United States. You may find this hard to believe, but I took an oatl I was going to tell the truth and this respect is the truth. Beyond that I have a very profound respect for myself. No matter whether or not I have acted like a clown or make jokes or tried to find some comfort in some way to speak publicly, I have this respect and I thank you, Mr. Velde, 408 I COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THR L0S ANGLES AtIOA for allowing me Just a few minutes. I will try to be very short, because I know I talk too much. I have three grounds on which I want to decline tie privilege.
Mr. '1',V mNP.1. Will you name them, please l 
Mr. CLAR mvM. Mr. Chairman, I move the witness be hrected by the chairman to answer the question.
Mr. VEainm. Yes. If you decline to answer these questions relathi to your connection with the Conunuist Party, it should be on a le t basis. 
Miss Giaour A legal basis? 
Mr. VWi., Yes. Yollr legul grounds for not answering.
Miss Gutnrr. I will try to be very short. When yon sustain tile shock of a lifetime, being stopped in your pI'ofessio ,with 11O excuses, no reasons given, and you see-you sit. for' maly days and you watcl people of brilliance being tortured, it isn't easy to choose the right words to say at the moment of decision. My legal grounds are actually based on powers of reasoning which I ant not allowed to expound here, as other people have ben, so that women don't have equal rights. They are based on the fiflh Colmandment, which reads, "Honor thy father and thy mother that, thy days may be prolonged in tile land whieh tile Lord thy (lod has given thee." I choose to interpret this to mean forefathers. For that very reason I accepted, accept it as a privilege to be allowed to say, with all the lights on, everybody listening, that the fifth amendment was written for tile protection of tile innocent. It says nowhere ill the fifth amendment that anyone will be compelled to bear witness against themselves. There is not one word in1the fifth amendment about self-incrimination. I an not a lawyer, though I have conferred with lawyers and I have called to so many people it Wollhl make your head swim. If you think I amMr. VEIua. Now, your statement is not responsive to the question.
Miss Oth[nimT. I an sorry. I didn't finish.
Mr. Vimmm. Do you decline to answer the question?
Miss GILBERT. I decline. I haven't finished my reasons. Do you withdraw the question?
Mr. Vem:. Bo you rely on the 5th ameudnent as well as the 19th alurndlnent for your refusal to answer ?
Miss GILnRT. Mr. Velde, I actually rely ol tle Constitution of the United States and the ten eomnandments, because of tile fact I am aware that the fifth amendment was written for the protection of the innocent, and I rely on tie fifth amendment. I an not hiding behind it. I am standing right in front of it.
Mr. VELON. Do you have any further questionsI
Mr. TAVENN.. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VEr- . Mr. Jackson I
Mr. JACKSON. No. 
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. VELB. Mr. Clarly CIARDY. No, Mr. Chairman. VELnE, Mr. Seherer? SomiPu. No. VELes. Mr. Doylet Doms. No. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TII LO ANOKTLES AIIEA 469 
Mr. Vomit,n. Mr. FrazierV 
Mr. FRAzr, No. ?Mr. Vmia* Is there any reason why this witness should not be excused.
Mr. Tmo pNut. No,
Mr. VDm. The witness is excused. 
Miss Gumnmn'r. I have one quest ion.
Mr. Vm, mm. The witness is excused.
Miss 0G1,118nT. I am not allowed one question. I will ask it elsewhere.
Mr. TAVENNt. William Oliver. All-, Chairman, William Oliver is in transit hero I understand. If yol are going to have a recess anywhere soon, this Would be just as good a place to take it.
Mr. # ACI(HON. Mi'. (CIhairnian.
Mr. VIm.. 
Mr. ,lalcksonl. M'. JACKSON. The other (lay during the course of the testimony of the witness l)anny Dare I maie mention of an organization called the American Jewish Lenitguo Against Communism, which is headed in Los Angeles by Rabbi tax t . Merritt. III illy opili'oi ftild the opinion of a1great many people this league is doing a very sublstanlital anl worthkiile service in their work. I feel that the committee should take at least this degree of official recogiltionl of the work being done by the American ,Jewish League Against ('ommunisma. I ask unammous consent that it may be inserted in th record.
Mr. VII,,. Without objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr, cm, I suggest it be read. 
Mr. Vninm. Proceed to read it. 
Mr. ,JACKMN. It is addressed to Congressman Velde. In liiu calculated Iittack being nade on you by subvt'rsivem and their Allies becAUlse oi' your sggestion that men of the eloth who have taken part It Colimimot. or pro- oiniiullist ictl\'itlem, ought iot to be fifty more inunie to Invesntgill ol limllllilly oflitr clliztei, the American Jowlsh I.eLglo Against Coilliiiimil, Inc., that I have the honor to serve ts local executive director, wishes to coiiunii you for the stand that you have taken. When i n if thoecloth, whetller Proteohnt, Clatholle, or Je.w, take part In subverslve activities or give exltrenslon to subversive oilnilons that have no falintest relation to lhir rellgilo or ni1irtu1il filne lloilm, itey lilVe no reason to coimplain whent the spotlight of legislative Inquiry Is focused ol thei find they are not entitled to lilde hlnd the sanctity of the eloth. I believe that the v'll nmijorlty of tie 110,40M) vlergymen it AnlrieA-Catholl., Protestant, and Jo\Isli-have no complaint against the lInvestigation of colleagues who have niam11 themselves apologists for ia erlindl finnd athelistlc Itiisih. Yours sincerely, Ilmbhl MAx J. MAmulttrr. 
Mr. TAVENNNiI. Air. Chairman, while we are at this point., may I read another letter into the record regarding the identflcat ion of a person
Mr. Vlanm,. Proceed.
Mr. 'ITAVENNER. This letter has been received from MAr. Barry Tri vets, Los ANaoEt.P 40, Mareh 20, 1.95. l)IAl (IHAIRMAN %'VI.: May I reseecfltlly call time committee's attention to auilluinteitlonal liijunstic wilicll is being done to tile, growing out of tile filet that there are two writers iII tie motion picture Industry whio tire blamed Trlvers. One, l'uull Trivers, lits been namtued before the connittee an an alleged Counitlnst , on a nuniber of o casions he has been mentioned and listed by last nllieO alone. This has caused confusion and may do hiurin to a writer niamued 470 oO- SsU T ACTITrWs' W TH19 LOS AMOELES AREA Barry Trivers who very definitely wants no part of Paul Trivers' first name, principles, or political Idealogles. I should be most grateful to you and the committee Ifthey would be good enough to make this vital point clear. Otherwise my own reputation and lively. hood may be Jeopardized. Your prompt consideration in this matter will be greatly appreciated. Gratefully, BAIAtY Tatas. 
Mr. VnrE. The letter will be accepted into evidence and put in the record at this particular point, and the committee will stand in recess for 10 minutes. (Short recess was taken.) (Representative Velde left the hearing room during the recess, which lasted from 2: 60 p. ih. to 3: 10 p. in.) (Representative Walter returned to the hearing room at 3:10 p. in.)
Mr. JACKSON. The committee will come to order. Who is your next witness, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAvENNEII. Mr. William Oliver. I had understood that he was present.
Mr. Ronnr Kpr;Ny. He is on his way. .Mr. TAvNER. Still on his way? I believe we can wait a minute or two. 
Mr. JAcKsOX. The committee will stand in temporary recess. (The committee stood in recess from 3:11 p. m. to 3: 15 p. in.) Do I understand the witness objects to the audio and video?
Mr. JACKsoN. 
Mr. RoBER KzNxy. To everything.
Mr. JAcgsoN'. Very well. In that case, the witness will be set over until Monday, to be notified by counsel. Do you have another witness?
Mr. TAVZNWMt. Yes sir I would like to know first whether his counsel is here. May l see you a minute, Mr. EstermanI (Conference between Mr. Tavenner and Mr. Esterman.)
Mr.TAvwrnm. Mr. Albert Page.
Mr. PANr. My counsel isn't in tlie room. I saw him going down the corridor. I will attempt to get him. 
Mr. TAvmxmm. Who is your counsel?
Mr. PAG.. Robert W. Kenny.
Mr. TAvENNR. I suggest he be given an opportunity to have hi8 counsel, present. : Mr. JAoKsol. Do you want to call another witness, or do you want to wait? 
Mr.TAvENNmE I can't see whether the witness is there or not.
Mr. JAcisoN. He is there. 
Mr. TAvmmR. I am taking your word for it. Just speak up. Are you there? 
Mr. PAor. Yes.
Mr. J Cxso. I suggest that the witness find his counsel and bring him in as promptly as he can.
Mr. TAVRNz . Mr. Chairman, I understand that the witness has" had, difficulty: locating his counsel and rather than delay matters further may I call another witness
Mr. JAosoN. Who do you wish"to call?
Mr.TAv NNM ,Charlotte Darling Adams. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 471 
Mr. JAotson. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mrs. AnAMs. I do.
Mr. TAvvxER Be seated, please. 
Mr. Chairman, while we are waiting, may I read another telegram wlhich has just been receivedI
Mr. JAOKSON. Proceed.
Mr. TAvNNER (reading). Chairman VELDE, Un-American Aofittfles, federal Buildlng, Los Angeles: Thanks for the correction. I am not only a teacher but a Roman Catholic and have been a screenwriter for 20 years. Thanks. Aritf MOPOAN BARIRON. TESTIMONY OF CHARLOTTE DARLING 4DAMS , Mr. TAVENNFER. What is your name? Has the witness been sworn? 
