Mr. TAVENNP:n. How do you spell your middle name? Dr. L~wis. B-y-r.d. 
Mr. TAvENNEIR. Are you accompanied by counselI Dr. LiwI. No sir. 
Mr. CLARD. ou understand, of course, you have the right to have counsel here, tie committee grants that privilege to every witness? Dr. Lawis. Yes. Thank you, sir.
Mr. CL RDY. You prefer to proceed alone? Dr. LEws. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born Dr. LPwis. Porterville Calif., Decemnber 7, 1008.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession V Dr. LEWiS. I am a teacher, college teacher.
Mr. TAVwER. Will you tell the committee, pleas., what your formal educational training has been? Dr. Ltwis. Yes. I went through Hamper Union High School. I graduated there. Got a B. A. degree from San Jose State College in 1980, master's degree from Stanford, postgraduate work done in 1984,1985, and my degree awarded in 1937 after completing the thesis, and the doctor's degree awarded from Stanford University in 1950.
Mr. TAVENNEt. low are you now employed? Dr. Ltwis. I am a profesor at San Jose State College at San Jose, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in teaching at that institution? Dr. Lzwis. Since the fall of 1949.
Mr. TAv=Nxn. Would you tell the committee briefly what your other employment has been as a teacher? * Dr.Luwk The yar preceding my work at SanJos State Collee I worked in a staff capacity for s commission a lay commission in California called the State Commission on School Districts. I did that from the period after the War until I went to San Jose. COMMUNIST AC'rlVITIRES IN TII LOS 0 ANUIIiES* ARINA 527 The~preceding 81/1 years I was in the United Statess Navy a comimissioned officer anT canine out a lieutenant commander. Before that I taught from 1931 to 1942, before I went in the Navy, at Glendale College at Glendale, Calif. Before that I had taught part time in the evenings during the early thirties in the adult school in San Jose while I was employed in the daytime as a truckdriver and warehouseman,
Mr. 'T'AVRNNER. Have you been a member of the Communist Party at any time? Dr. Lawis. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVPNNFJt. Over how long a period of time were you in the partyI Dr. Lzwis. Well, my recollection of it is It was around the end of the year 1935 or the beginning of the year 1930, until about late In 1939 or early 1940.
Mr. TAvmNNPR. Now, during that period of time you were engaged in the teaching profession, I believe? Dr. Lnwis. 'hat is right. 
Mr. TAvSNNP.R. Will you tell the committee, please, the circtn- stances under which you joined the party ? Dr. Lpwzs. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAvpr;NNP,. That is, the Communist Party. Dr. Lxwts. Right. When I finished my graduate work first in 1935 1 had gone through a period of years in which I had difficulty in getting started in my profession. A great many people had in the early hirties. I was somewhat frustrated and was ambitious, but it was a difficult thing to get a start. For that reason I went back to Stanford. During the period of my education there I became aware of the fact the Teachers' Uion was in activity. It appealed to me as probably a very worthwhile organization that was working for the interests of the teaching profession. When I came to southern California I looked up the Teachers' Union in Los Angeles and became a member. Being somewhat, I would say, an eager beaver I became known because I talked and took part, andI was interested and I found I was being included in caucus discussions. Small groups of people would get together and talk about the problems of the union and some of the program that was being carried on. It was sort of a gravitational thing. I found one evening, through this particular group meeting, that evening, there was a unit of the Communist Party in the Teachers' Union and would I like to be a member and I said lYes." I would like to say, gentlemen, that I think there is, as other wit. nesses have indicated who have talked with you freely as I do, that it is not a verg, easy thing to talk about these things, because you feel so foolish afterwards. You look back and say you don't now how a person could do that. But it looked so easy and seemed so unimportant at the time. In that period it was easy just to say, "This looks like a fine thing." I would like to als point out the one thing about communism I discovered, after considerable time, that it takes many phases and has appeals to almost any kind of interest. A person who has an enthusiasm for doing a job in a field that is important to people, there is usually a place for him to work where communism has a part. 528 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THR L1 ANORGLS ARIA I found that at the time, and I have no regrets about this, and I don't think anyone elm will either, who worked in it, that at the time we felt that the Teacher' Union was trying to do something for the teachig i)rofemiolu and for tle schools. We weren't thinking so much alioit tile ultimate ends that communism had ilntelded for 1s,, and we were pretty unaware of them, I think. At, any rate, that is how we got. in. You sort of gravitated in from the union.
Mr. Avr.NNrJt. Your induction Into the (,omnuniRt Party isintereating because I believe you are alout tie first witNess who got into tle Communist P'arty froni the Teachers' Union, who lits been before us. lit all the other instances that have been called to our attention the individltals were niembers of the Communist. ]Party which were attempting to infiltrate the Teachers' Union. Dr. bLms. I see.
Mr. TAvirNNi. So you are itdirect iroluctl, al)larentlyDr. Lyims. Yes.
Mr. T.%AtNN:II. Of that 'ommnUnist Party effort, Ixecase you were led from the Teachers' Union into the I'arty. Now, when you speak of tie Teachers' Union, What local was it that yOu jointed? Dr. Ltwis. It was tile Los Angeles lowal. I forget the number; 430, I think it was.
Mr. TAVSI4NF.R. 430. )r. lvewis. I think it was. Will you give tile committee an idea of the member. ship of teachers in that union I Dr. Lrwis. I have tried to remember that, I think that the enrolled membership at its peak was probally not over-I am guessing at it now-it was about 400, I would say.
Mr. TAvxNNER. About 400? Dr. jrLwis. Alout 400. There were omne, I suppose, 8,000 to 10,0() teachers in Los Angeles, and the people in the area around that local, as I recall it, represented the Los Angeles County area, isa whole. I think, as Mr. Herndon pointed out, tile attendance at meetings was somewhere between it100 and 200 usually.
Mr. |'AVE.NNF.R. How mnav Clonmmmunst Party members were there in your cell or group of the Oommunist Party? Dr. IJwAs. My recollection of it at any one time is that it probably wasn't more than a dozen at. the most, sometimes fewer. There may have been 1 or 2 more. There were always at least, my recollection is, about 10 or 12.
Mr. TAvr.NNM. Do you know whether there were any other Communist Party units or groups within your local consisting of 400 mmbemt
Mr. Lzwm. If there was one, I didn't know about it, I was not aware of it. I don't think there was.
Mr. TAvENNF.R. Can you tell the committee how many locals of the Teachers' Union there were in the State of Californis at that time?
Mr. Lwms. At that time, my.best recollection of it is that there were probably 4 or 6, perhaps, I think. I am Just guessing at this. I am not mire, to tell you the truth.
Mr. TAVENN V.. Can you give tile committee the names of tile areas or any other title or name that the locals had I 
Mr. TAV.NNR.. COMMtIiST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 529 ,Mr. Lkwis. Well I ant pretty sure there was 1 in Saeramento, and I think there was I in Palo Alto, and I think there was 1 in San Diego. And I don't know whether there was I in San Jose, or not. I really don't know. I wasn't aware of it when I was there. Those are the only ones I would suspect, but even then I am guessing, because I am not too sure of the period.
Mr. TAvHNNvJx. Do you have any information or general knowledge as to the membership of the Teachers' Union in these various locals or iII the State as a whole? 
Mr. Liwss. No sir I was in it position were I probably should hmve known tlatl tIt I (on't recall. I would guess tiat In the StateI am just guessing ttow-I would gess it tile State titre would Probably be around maybe 00 or 1,M)0 members of the Teachers' Mon throughout the State. That Is a guess.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you were in It position where you ought to have known. What do you niean by thatud
Mr. LUwis. Well, whatI ineitn was at one tine I was acting its State secretary for the State F0'e(eratio1 of Teachers, for a short period. 
Mr. I tilnie? AVWNNIP. IWere you it itteinterof the Comutnist ary tit that 
Mr. LEwIS. YeS, I l~lieve I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. To what. extent was the Commiutist Party responsiblh for yolur ele4t itn to that ollhie, if any I 
Mr. LEwIS. That is somthiig 1can't tell you, sir. A person who, lls 1 said before, is omletltinlg of In entger weaver gets pltt into post. tions where lie will do a job if he i-4 willing to work, and I hld a lot of energy, an(d I don't know (iute how I got there, to tell yon the truth, and I can't remember when I first. was or wlen I got over it, you know, but I was ili there for it short. period, and I soi ewltat havo a feeling or recollection, in fact, I wasn't very efficient at it. becaulso 1 had a great many other interests and respons-ibilities, and I suspect that I 'didn't.do very well at it.. Tlhat is why I say I was in a position where 1 should have known, and if I had known my business better I prob: ably could have told you how inany netnbers there were. , Sir. 'rAvrNNOR. (atn you tell the committee what in your judgment was the principal interest of this Conmunist Party group to which you were affiliated
Mr. l.wis. Well, my recollection of it. is that, the primary interest of this Comatiunist Party grolp was the Teachers' Union, that wag its primary function. It was concerned with the things that teachers were concerned about, teacher welfare, retirement, tenure, and so on. IThe second facet of its program, of course, was the study of communisin and its function in Aterican life. Those two phases of the work. I think Mr. lerndon brought it out, as you know he and I were in there together for quite a while, as you can see from outr dates, we weren't very much students, we were more concerned with the present. We had come out of the depression and we were concerned with tite teachers and the teaching situation the schools,and as t result our studies were secondary, in my opinion, they certainly were with me, to the job I felt that was inportant in the schools themselves, which was working with teachers to improve the teaching profession, which, 31747-.i--lit. 2--7 580 COMUIST ACTIVITIES IN I'I? 1,8 AJ01LN1 ARICA byl te way, I think Is i worthy motive. Some things hang on to where the motives sometimes are not worthy.
Mr. JAoes. Do you think It is it matter of great concern to the omnimunist Party I 1Mr. Lawis. I tink at the timo-mnty recollection of it, sir, is that I don't think at that time it wis of much concern. Maybe I was wrong, Mabe I didn't know. And I xmibly didn't. Iut. I felt that we were isolats, tit we were isolated from the main stramin of the party, and one of t 1o reasons for that is that we had so seldom ever seen anyone who could be called a party official in our group, and we had prac. tically no contact with them, as far is I know. It was, as I say, out olMr. the JAKM. main stream. I don't know whether I made the import of my quoes. ion absolutely clear. Do you think (flat the plight of teachers gen. orally, with respect to pay and working standards and things of that sort wais actually a matter of dee l) concern to tho CounntsL Party I ir,L:wvie. I see what you mean. I think, insofar as they were intoroted in techelr, they were Ill- trested in using ally, let's say, sseeltibility of a grollp's concern as sotlething to hang their pn)g1ram1 on,).
Mr. JACKSON. As they parallel the minority groups or parallel Adolf Hiller, or parallel any number of other thhigs toward tlio ultiutia|te goal of the palrty f
Mr. Lawts. That is what I would sy, sir, yes, that they had usedin aly group of people you can find something that, is important to them. Take that important thing an(i hiang your program on it, and go along with it, and you have the people.
Mr. JACKsoN. You pick tip a lot. of j~ople along the way doing itI
Mr. Lpwis. Yes. And very many innocent people, too. And I hope you gentlemen appreciate that in my comments on ths Teachers' Union I want to be sure that you understand I don't feel there were lots of Communists in tie Teachers' Union, but a lot of people who were seriously sincerely concerned in the welfare of the teaelng profession and Ielt that was a good way to help it, and probably were completely unaware, except Ixoqsl)ly ill rart inoments, if even at all, that they were being guided in any way. I want to make that clear. Beaune there ire sueh people, inny of them.
Mr. TAVENN=. Yes, and that is one reason why I brought out the exact faets about the membership.
Mr. Lywis. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVxZn (continuing). Of the union and the membership of the Communist Party. Were you present during the taking of the testimony of Mr. Hem. don?
Mr. lxwis. Yes, air.
Mr. TAvzX.. I do not want to descend to the same particulars in questioning you, because I think it would be pretty much of a relmtti-on--Mr. Lae. It would, air.
Mr. TAt%'asia So I will ask you just a few general questions. First of all, I would like for you to tell me in a general way anything, any knowledge that you have about the actual workings of your OOMMItNIBT ACT'IVITIMA IN 'tHI, LO ANOIAR, AEICA 51" uroul, which would indleto ItN line of interet, nd how it finctiolud, low lhe pIrty fotilonod, whielt would be of interest to the committee.
Mr. Lp.wis. I would like to higliiglit iiisythling thlit I can think of tjllkt Mr. Ilertition hlsn't, covered rather t lin repeat it. I think probailly I would juht itv to iay briefly int is In the forefront of lit I Ittift and1the lot fact, it go ltt my1ymin(Iollto think isI igreabhle. cansay is which Ino, firt,op~etate(d, Ieceltdg eeifn( to hovit fmrlle, ri wE WOl.100 It 811i111 group not itgroup of revolution. Ilng hard for itrevolution, we were it bunch of toaich|or who, ratio aid problems that, we had had W0e,1 HI(ekinlg ohlItioin to fliu ll I tholiglt, itlot of then felt that duiniig our (IoJ)resihoi experience. w )het ad,-o ''ito ftwit that I ain here and colie(llt in what T iinsaying Is based others feel the way I do. I)Irtly 11p)on 11e filet (hst I liii HIII( So our operations was largely directed, and my feeling about it was fhlit It was hlrgely directed toward giding tho mnion in Its policies wi( progritism. the Imii( tilme, as Air. lh(9rlon pointed out to you1 we did Now, it. live piogitin points anl policies tht Cilin ltoig that related to that we were, of course, l)resged to bring forward and world afairs1 pre.lt to the pmophl of the groul p. position onAnd, cerwillwas takeito exception. almost organizit ilon Aspublic you know, Union matters, 5nd(any tie Teachers' tain we were at that ti, conerned about Oerof cours, like most of is, nlllly, Awe were coiieersed abotl. Spatin. Very few wero concerned about Russia at tlie Inolm1ent.. 0)u1r concerlis were directed toward thio there were proposals for reso. other situations. And, conw-qllseitly, in seed ]itlons and for letters to people supporting such actions to be rJalit in that direction. 
Mr. JAoKsom. May I interruptl
Mr. L.wis. Ye.s, sit'.
Mr. ,JAcKSON. Were those actions, your actions) the result of discussion oid debate on certain policies, or were your actions the result a1( dircm.tives wilich reached you from outside sources of instrsctio, 1
Mr. IiwS. I think there was some of both, sir, but I think te outside source is the sparkplug. In other words, directives were brought in which Indicated that the thinking at the present moment was so and so. 'T'hat is what I think, if I may use the word-maybe it is not a good one-discnchunted a lot of people wto thought that the Communist Party represented a very fine aRvanwe'nent of democracy. We were sold some vlry fine words along that line. Since thiat was one of the feelings that people hd, that we had at the time, these proposals that caniein, many of them, were along the lines that many people felt were the right thing, you see. We were against isms, against facism, against oppression, against any big man taking on a little man, oppremion of all kinds, and, as a matter of fact, as I say, we weren't a violent group of people. I think personally thei closest I have ever come to violence was wrestling on TV. I mean we weren't talking in terms of revolution, but the ideas that we wore bringing forward were ideas that were common to a great many people at the time, but they did come as directives: Here Is a program, there is going to be a meeting, here we are to smpport' this group. $82 OUbMNIN'i AC't'IViT1iit IN TWO 1LON AN011i~M A~iA And t Would 5tvk there wm it stslon i uit, It, auud ltmidlyV it rather mdtitutlu a~oC p1 itw of whaitt lutui ls4'el btmugt III, aImtIt,Ititlmt. bm Al VIg it, You met. Or.P I NNKIt. ~BYtii.'ejitIutte, voe tn efe'uIiug it) itec('l net by C'ontuu 11111st 'lt'tv Itiiirt's, ArNhliWiim, Th'lp it I h at smull group. I unt not talking ilbotiL Y~ou wereii't s0t'nkitug ithotitl ltat Were yollr, Hie, Whenu you tiskd, C'011t~tAF0 4 a Y ott u'or't'tt't talking about ho ion;I you wero. ltik. hI aint.tho party gri 11P. ,JAMONtit I was 11,111kig about., thet pirty geup~.
Mrt. rLuavis. Titt. lIs Whabt I Wast tilkitig aitil~i. fiht1 $.luuwat. yout miy oil tdi t't, il'ism it tIlltt ioititi'y I tteutiem. it WOttid havoc 1104'It il wold It,not, tot'0tim plirty f1muwt ollime to (lisellss. rotWllttitill',r there li' W~tM itl iti groups of te'iidmet'i Ilt, t11t.
Mrt. I.P~~wis. I IItiik poisslibly t hat I 111t is uut~toui~ttwt vetsll a% 4o Ilittle of thtemt, 811'. Mir. 8vuut.ta ''hey wert, too smart Io (tdk about. Itt Vf W-t.ILtmw. And WtI wevti't''t premed.$l tat iutivi oitt liitt t iase ('4tlwt WoVwere' like, this :0 They knetw we Were) --nmiy I soul of jnump 111111114d to thweed pr~ed't I %wold ik tw(o ia v thits, IA-ttvs I Itink it juIiuim had anyvone a'omne to tutu aund ask mimet) coiuu hatek. I nover hand it ask umtwhv 1 didn't rejoin tho union or voite baek to the 11114111 Ill other wvordis, I ftee1lroteerly that. 06Hi wits tue, tht ill thle party strututut1v WO were I.ked upo i)ts, ituylie, it group t hat. ought to be udeveloped, 11nd I think lit tile paattieutt that yoti readt, Air. Taivennter, tite uurty arrepted lit) filet thait I s it luresi IltIiilty to develop thue teadwtrsmi (hoa imtrfessional gt'otips. l111t. I think Wet were~ a, matter of itor interest to tile 1inutiti sqrean of pat'ty atitvity in this tuv4t. 'lThem. were bigger fish frying than about 12 teaers, if YOAt $00 What 1 t110111. N*s t hat follow yotr quest ion, sir I WIA'O tuiont nwuuber NMr. SNEtRERa Yo"u mtn there Were pioi'ties in this? Mir. I~Ams. That's right, thtre were priorities iand mora vluallble exmntributtious. Th'at. is my reolleetiun and feeling of thle H111iod. .Ar. Srutumxt. This wits' jtist atsoft'ning-ttp Prwess, as lar 11tsyotir group was concerned I Air. Lmmwu. I think so, sir. Mfr. (Cu.ARuY. And to feel their way into)thle terers' group V
Mr. Lu~was. That"., right.
Mr. ('imytu. Fivil)how far they could go without defeating their
Mr.Lwis.I think thint is probably correct, or without losing the
Mr. Ctu'r. Sort. of fattening you upI for the slaughter a little letter onf Air. LUwIS T think so, sir. (Representative Donald L Jackson left. the hearing roomt at this point, 2:41%p. mn.) 
Mr. TAVatRwIM. What was your subject in school as a teacherI COMMIYN;I' AC'IVIT1141 IN? 111,~ 1,0 ANOMLPR Atl'A If r. Japwim. Am it feIIeterl Ifr. TIAVsRNNH11. Y1141; Wvhnt. W11H yOu~r eRteelhtY I iue 111114of fliigoy, Air. Ni. I1"Wim. I haIve (lo 53 Plublin Apelikinig, 1:1141 riltili i'i' now ihi tho i eld of tiii ittg 11luls, sailiovimil 1 1l10s11, itiuterilut . Tlhot. wtH lily work Ii itth Navy, (ti.0 AllI'. T1AVMN NF,11. TO I'o "itt PXtent. WitHlik Hll~(tl of itiflitencinlg 010 t PUNlY i1tiiigH, if piujil orIi 11iiIutH dIIH('ui8xell III Y11111' ( OmnnM 141 ilt, Jill'? NI I. 1'N h 'itIi'e i f u.Nt.r 'IllVol)iiitei', Wi1H Ilht it.1Wiglnt he party, (limtti,14lill. I 1I111tk it iII Mill oIf utNS1ttiiiit, priolumly, by Ili I hI'' lIK4111114'41 1111 WPtWe-4 JIM111 lit%.% p'te gil Iii' wird w~IIE'ill'vii' utiti Whtt'i'-'vt'i' we' ('thd. uteitirs iho wonltd earry li 1140t t'il of fl'uuiply. 110liits4114-4 1% Ini'41huu 11111 1s11t 11111 PI-O'l Iiitt CIAmo wo'e fiel. I i- 1411h11.tM6411111 iii l1st II li-iiiipirt Ito fetut. lin111 h' fl-elig, to it aslit. 1H In thisi pairt ie'lnrl li-Aifflis io only groitt-t o141-111ople who 111411 coiuiu I lirotigli isavwthraiiiin.g lon-I'nra- ilin 111141 wu','e worilig in fipe tenhi ug dw WPrM esun-htIhy 11114good st'hoolu, I tink flinI, is atittitnitta' withItIunehers. Ati 1( tloif 1i4'1'1il1 HI i'it('gy ('oilf(reii('t oil how do oui itel thle eld ren. I dtt Itii any ret'tlettiont of niiy sitl! incfIents inl that g ronp. DkaN~a o youl eoiisilt'r if 3'oiot C oiiiiniit I any group Mi'. yorglinParty th tipiot. Ilse t'l041 for w~hid, flip(intinist hNO vai'i uti11itliir groiil), flint. you would hanve etitleavoeE Ito lend Nelt'l yti 114 l6ie14 14 lti ny way Ii yotir coursen of traiuiiig?
Mr. iLvwis. I i hik It im t ii'tly conceivnlile, joudging from Ilit' litI't-li i1't ol halve quonted today, imnd sofia' of Ilse I ing-4 youl rieilioned, flint I lint ineivitably wast w~hiit. wn'a4 t'xpt'ted of us, I tlhik It is InAndi I think present history 11iss botrne flint out. e('itai. Alr. TIA~rNFR. But. you hanve 11( IPrsonal knowled~ge of any effort that was made~l by any o;f yotir groip to actually influence the ittudents 
Mr. Liawift. No; I wouldn't say so, sir. Let's sav this, however: I thilik we must be very cautious to intliente fit tanybody is tin entity, a piersonality is comp~lete, a person w~ho has thoughts along certhain lines, it sems to ine, reveals those thoughlts by his reactions, the eyebrows lie raises at the wrong time or right time, so it would bie folly to say thatt we didn't, influence or try to influence, because even subciosionusly a person might have brought. forth a viewpoit toward one thing or another, because of its i mIxolnne, flhn could have planted a seed, you mee. So I wouldn't say thint, we didn't. But what I (lid say was-and I believe this istrue in my recolledtion of it-there was no planning, "This we will do next, and we will get tilil% kids4 to think lb s, and then we will get the kids to think thatl" That wasn't done.
Mr. CiLumr. Wasn't that largely because they knew they were deal- ing with an intellectual group who could be relied on to work out their own devices and plans to promote the party policy I OM S4UNETS? ACIVITIN IN THW LS ANON198, AREA 
Mr. Luwis. I suspect that may have been so. And it also may have boon- think thrit's right. I don't know what the thought, reeliy, and we hadn't though about what they thought, thr.
Mr. CiAumur. Wouldn't you sy that they probably planted the original seed in your minds and then loft the tactics more or less up to you within some broad general limits which they established?
Mr. Luwts. I think sir, we were what you might call a highly autonomous group. I don't think they know much about us or about how we worked, or what we could do, but they loft it up to us, as you say, I think that's right, in the teacher group.
Mr.TAveNtnR. Your value to the Connunist Party or the value of your group went back largely to the question of your own indoc. trination Into the principles of the Communist Party, and therefore your influence on your associates in that manner f
Mr. Lws. I thInk so, I think that's right, sir; yes,
Mr,TAVrNNR. I would be very 1had to have you describe, in any way it occurs to you that you should do so, what you think of the use of an active Communist Party member today as a teacher in our plu)lic schools, or any schools, for that matter.
Mr Lwis. The thing that you were discussing with Mr. Herndon I
Mr. TAvYrNN . Yes. 
Mr. Lxwis. Right. I have formulated over a number of years a very strong feeling about that, and itties up very much with what Hemdon said. Inthe first place, I am a great believer In what we have called acdemio freedom. But I think what Horndon pointed out, and what I would like to repeat ier, is that we are pretty clearly in mind now, and I think everybody in this audience is clearly in mind, that you are not a freethinker when you follow party police. We were deluded,
Mr. Tavenner, once upon a time, to believe quite honestly that the Communist Party was almost'the most democratic thing that God had created, although He didn't have anything to do withf it in this Instance but it was democratic. And we have since found perfectly clearly t'hat the orders come from above. It is not autocracy, it is a militaristic type of structure. Now, how can a person defend himself in the name of academic freedom when he is receiving orders from someone else and has to follow the line or get out or be hurt? It seems to me, then, with the logic that way, that we have on one hand we must respect the fact that there is a concept of academic freedom, which does not provide us with the opportunity to have academic license, which means to pass on orders that have been handed to us, on to other people, just as a matter of handing it out. So, in short, then, I don't see how a person today could be an active Communist and be useful as a teacher in our country.
Mr. Sitramn. That is one question I didn't have to ask.
Mr. Crmwr. Witness, those of you who have finally awakened, of course, obviously came out from under the opiate rather gradually, as other witnesses have expressed, and as you have inferred: Don't you think that probably you lose the proper concept of academic fmredom somewhat in reverse order that gradually you submerged your own personality into that of the party linet In other words, they gave you orders of small importance first, and gradually increased it, as someone goes on the dope, so to speak I COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THNIO LOS ANOGZLPS AICA 535 
Mr. Lawi, I think probably, sir, that could be described as the evolution of It. I think one thing could be made clear here, and I think this should be of comfort to other people who might want to come before you sometime. I think they recognize thit you recognize that a person doesn't just suddenly become one anI thien suddenly stop becoming one. You sort of go along through a period of evolution while you are having troubles, or something else, like we did in the depression years, and many of- us ha0d personal difficulties, and you find things that you grope for to help you, and these look good, and that is the time those boys move in on you, when you are groping. 18hen when the time comes that you see it isn't all like it looked, then you begin to move out again, and you don't just chop it off, but you start wrestling with it, you see, and It takes time.
Mr. SminmP.R. Hasn't your experience indicated that the party, even tolay, is trying to create dissensions in order that it can noi into etain groups and therein create dissension among people
Mr. Lrzws. Taat's right.
Mr. Scz.nma. So it can move in I
Mr. Litwis. It feeds on them.
Mr. Scizmru. In 1939 our economic system perhaps provided those frustrations without the party's help
Mr. Lxwzs. That's right.
Mr. Soamitim. Now they set minority against majority to create those things to enable them to move in, Isthat a correct statement I
Mr. Lawis. I think that is true. I am not aware how it is functioning today, except I read what I read in the papers. But I think that is good enough guide for me. I do say this, it is one of the reasons--now, mind you, I want to be careful about this, because I don't want to cause any misunderstanding, there are many people right now who believe that the trade-union upproach to teachers' organization is a good one, and I am not criticizing that fact at all, I believe if they want to believe that they should; however, my personal feeling, one of the things that got me out of the Communist Party was my reaction to the fact that the trade-union philosophy, with all die respect to labor, the trade-union philosophy was not the kind of organization for the teaching profession, for several reasons that to me are very sound. Number 1, we teach all the children of all the people. Number 2, ve represent rather a unique kind of function in our society, in which we are representing all the people through a board of education, through school administrators, and through the teachers who have just one job, and that is giving good education to children. Therefore, the trade-union concept of separating employment from management as a bargaining function causes a breakdown in the coordination necessary to make good schools, which is based upon lull understanding and coordination of the board, which is the public, the teachers, and the administrators. Do I make my philosophy clear on that? That is one ot the things that drew me strongly away from the trade. movement, which of course was steering union it. movement and the party
Mr. ScHEarJt. A teacher is largely part of government itself, the same as thee deputy marshals sitting here. '536 'COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. Lmwzs. That's right. We are an instrument of the state, shall we say, sir. I
Mr. Socnum When you accept employment with government you become part of government and you forego certain rights that belong to people engaged in private industry, don't you, is that what you I mean
Mr. LEwis. Well, that is the idea. I wasn't thinking of it in exactly those terms, sir, as much as I was in tying that the principle of negotiating for the welfare of a school group, without seeing it as a total entity of school administration, the public, and teachers working together for children. When you divide up in such ways that you can't work that way, then you have broken down something that I think is fundamental in education in the United States. I am not saying-you understand what I moan here? I want to be sure that we don't say a teacher renounces his rights, whatever they may be, when he becomes a teacher. He is even more aware of his rights, it seems to me, more aware of his privileges. But lie is just as much more aware of his responsibilities.
Mr. ScHtER. Another facet of the problem, perhaps?
Mr. LE'wJ5. Yes, another emphasis, perhaps.
Mr. CLARnY. Witness, to carry the earlier thought one further step I don't mind confessing that for quite some time I was concerned, i could not find in my own thinking the answer to the problem that you are giving us now and that the other witnesses have given since I have been on this committee, amid that question was: How on earth was'it possible for anyone of the intellectual capacity that a teacher. and a professor must'be. how is it possible for such a person to ever so far submerge his intellectual freedom, his ideas, to that of the Communist Party line? I couldn't find that. I found that in not only your testimony, but in that of many witnesses I have heard since I have been on this committee. And I think one of the most important things that you are doing and the other witnesses are doing is getting across to the public generally the real explanation of how that thing happens, how you get wound up, and then how you unwind. And it ties in with this. We are being attacked continuously, rabidly, by* 
Mr. SCHERER. You mean the committee?
Mr. CLARDY. Yes. Being continually attacked, as witness one of the incidents yesterday, and what you saw in the papers last night, by members of the cloth and others, who claim we are subverting academic -freedom, and that the very way in which we conduct our hearings is destroying the American concept of academic freedom. I am laboring this a little bit perhaps, because I think it is a most important point that the committee is reaching for in bringing people of your kind before us. 1 want you to again bear with me a moment. Dr. LnwIs. All right.
Mr. CLARDY. Isn't it true that academic freedom and membership in the Communist Party are utterly irreconcilable? Dr. L~wis. That is right, sir. That is my opinion now and has -.been for a long time.
Mr. CLA YD.And that an exposure of that fact-and that 's what this committee is trying to do-will probably be the best product of this committee's work, if we can do that? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 537 Dr. Lvws. That is right, sir. May I comment on that, sir? 
Mr. C,,ARDY. I wish you would. Dr. Lzwis. To do it I have to put some ashes on my head.
Mr. CLARDY. Let me tell you tids: There are none amoig us that have not made mistakes. I look back on the way I tried some of my early cases and I am ashamed of what I did to some of my early clients. . Dr. LUwis. That is a great comfort. I think one of the most-I have to say this, too-one of the most important things that has occurred to me, and I think should be said, is the fact that a pot-son like me and Herndon and others in this group, I am sure, are going to come forward to speak out, that they suddenly discover they have an whale of a lot of friendsMr. CLARDY. You bet they do. Dr. Lwis. Who have confidence in them. 
Mr. CLARn. If they could see the pile of telegralms and mail we get they would understand just how right you are in what you say. Dr. Lwis. Thank you, sir.
Mr. CLARDY. Go ahead. Dr. LEwi. Fine. It is with that spirit and support that a person can say, "Look how stupid I was." I would like to add something at this point, sir. Nobody can quite explain why those things happen to people because every man grows up a little differently. It seems to me our big problem right now is to try to avoid the mistakes like people like I have made. (Representative Donald L. Jackson reentered the hearing room at this point, 8: 05 p. m.) Dr. LEwis. And what should they (lot It seems to me no one should ba put in the position that I was put in. You know tie story, I guess. It is what they say about contracts, that the large print griveth and tile fileprint taketh away.
Mr. ULAnDY. You are speaking of insurance contracts? Dr. LEwis. Perhaps. Perhaps we didn't read the fine print. What are the factors that keep a person from reading fine print? (Representative Morgan M. Moulder reentered the hearing room at this point, 3: 07 p, in.) Dr. LEwis. Mainly ignorance of the facts. It seems to me the more widespread information like this can be given to the people, the more information they will have and the fewer people will be dupes. I am convinced an ignorant man is duped. As I say, I will put some ashes on my head.
Mr. CLARDY. Let me disagree slightly with you. Isn't it true that sometimes because of the self-interest in some particular problem and the Communists cultivate that, that you become suddenly blind to the fine print, so to speak, and you don't discover it until you find out you were sold down the river on the original proposition that brought you in? Dr. LEWS. I think so. As Mr. Herndon mentioned, the Finland shock, where you suddenly shake your head and say, "What is going on and what has been going on ?"
Mr. CLAmY. Like the fellow that is given a hard punch in the first round and wakes up in the sixth round and says, "What is going on and how did I get here?" 88 OOMMUNIRAT AO&'IVITINA IN T1114 1,011 ANGIOLUI4R ARRA Afr 4 pavimx1owN I WasilIntereted inyour titlt~e1iat aiot tho 110k of know1woe0 and that people are taken itu on theso matters lwaitiuel 0 littAir of tWol h. of that, 1 0 hl0on't Inentiohed itany tH l1o thi lnR oolmullltn In schools. tr.Luws. you want no to coonent on that strongl aboutDo thils, M.!TAVRNNP., Ifyou will. Dr. I4ma. I feel, kind of I think that ought, to be doe. I thinc w,ought to teach a lot abouta lot of lins, I think we ought to liy all we know openly on the line to people and toll tholu young. I think that, there isone 1m1isttke, we have inado somotiios, and I hope you will listen very carefully, gelthmden, so you dou't utiilluB(r. tianl mInc. prent (h01 about, thil virtues of I think Sonetims we have talked it out country, but, haven't always set up t ie contrast lby wlh'ih a pe-sol eotn make his measuirs *Mr. CvAtuy. There Is no normn to 1udge by. I think that. is 0o retwoa Dr. I No'norm, 1lw. We hvo dl why some of iswent haywire ol ComunIsm, We hoard the id(e1 aflA we didn't have the norm. It took itlong tim1e for so1ni ollithr functions of coulnuinism, that proplped i1l) here aunid there, to serve as ameasure. Do I make myself olear? 
Mr. CLAnDY. Yes, And tilat Is that if eolUlnulliln is laid out Cold, for what it stands for, that It would perform itgreit service in that respect, Dr. Lrtwis. That is right. In ot0101' words, you would reconiniond a good A 'ilr'AV1NNER. course of preparatory government? L1wis. 4r Yes. i will ive you one example. This is sort of selling one of my Ieliefs and hobbies, I think we could take tie iwomdeust irom radio Moscow and use it as (urrellt. nilerlal, and show what we mIeanl by Conilmlnst Propaganda, and bring it out inyour current Inblwm* and set it up against critical analysis and see what happens. Then they will learnMr. Sviurnmu. The State Dopartlnent has set il) libraries in foreign countries in connection with miny of those foreign-aid proll'rlsm1. You would feel that those libraries, they should haove books ol Stalinism and Marxism, and so forth. Dr. Lwisi. You have me in a jam.
Mr. Sciwvmu. I am not saying they should. Dr. Lrwis. Yes; to know what they are.
Mr. ScI i1wR. But to know what they are. The investigations have disclosed unforunately we haven't had any books on Americanism or anticommunism works. Dr. LEwis. Well, I don't know the facts on the details of the situation, sir, but any such program of instruction would be predicated upon thorough treatment of a whole problem.
Mr. Scmnm. And it is rather shocking to think that isn't so in the libraries that our State Department inaintains in foreign countries. Dr. LEwis. It would be, sir.
Mr. JACKsON. I was about to ask one question in connection with your statement on teaching communism in schools. Dr. LEwis. Yes, Mr. Jackson. COMMUNITY A(,'IVITIECM IN '1100 LOB ANUIGI,4: AitIA 539 Mi'. YAOKi JN,IS It yoUP Oj1lo1 t111. 111114 iiibjet,1 4i1t01 h dlI tiltght ly ( Oli111111lf it'. i,4W l, No) 4ll' 1 do Il,,. hMr, .1AOfANON, I willted to MIicM th1t very clhr. I)r,, liwl., M r',,J A(+IKNONYOH, , b lit 4',bi If,11 fily l i il th r l a bIl llol<f.lit. D)O you Ixtilve 01111, tllieit ii iH or (hl il'liI 11111 (I14c lim Il ifil of ble (.]lilt. IIiiiiHI., Plfilly hive illy Ihlat Ill lte Ailiil'Ieltil s1 I)r, IjnwiV1, No, I hlthive I maild ourlier I doli't itlIl hlit (11Mm.My poilit iNII, tlit HItll tiiiie whi) % Vi ' tltIi'h 1 t41101it lel ii1' 1 lliIlly m4holarnl kiilotV It anl Ibpremilid Ill l ehollly way. 1,.mldl r~mm ih olit bar l'nd it broamd 1111Iiermt~widiing of tii public, That io why we Iwl i111l 41 l i Miig %11will llI idh ililld it.
Mr.NiIIIItDIIl. I,'.Ihliril11 111 4 tIilt h thi i l ill ailout lhibrirlen I ion ilia 1li1,11ilied by Cho~l 11114 til ifiir lil~ll ild eolllntit lling only Coll) ll flltln411 llitei'iltl, I will (lJIi/i' w4'O lhi this W liilm neai froilii 0hl Oil that, be. l)ibhli( llirlaieN, I thilik, a11 stafted thoroughly with books 11hut1 H110W thI hitito',y of Aliriellt th j'rogress that. hal beoll male mider o1' Amerlicn'('lllleiit, I thilc it imolt, of place to frelml 1in Deprtmlent of Stato of staffIng our books with Communi t material. Ill', ,.5/bI(NIN. Pro('('(i, Mr, Con14l.
Mr. r'AVPNNK~t, lII I V riot 1lked yoll nthol tile Mmllhbeship in this gro1p of the1 (O1nlnnist Party to which you wro ausigled, except CAii )' ll. to As4 you the iiliiler.i D.}r. laWN. Yes, 1i1r, I Ielieve yon siid there were nhoit 12. Will yo give 11H the nanis of those that YoU Call recall. )r. LwiW, Thiey ar the sale list, sill', that Mr. Herndon save you. I WrItie hiii down iind t here is onlly one uli1me I recall thatS[ can remneier the first nime, it first lamo In addition-Mr. 'l',VNNI'1R. 
Mr. 'J'AVINNBIt. *Jt It minute. don't give the first name, If you don't know the last name, Dr.wLw. I only rnimemor the firmt name and not the last name. That is tile only ono beyond his list that I recall. I think lie covered the others,
Mr. TAVNN.n, There may he too many people having that first name. lin reading a good many telegrams now and I don't want to have to read tiny more. Dr. Lmwrs, That is right. Yes, sir.
Mr. IAvENNPE. I think, however, you should give us the names of those you can identify from your own knowledge as having been members of your group. Dr. Lwis. I jotted them down here. farjorie Hiy, Anne Kinney, Harry and Anna Shepro, Zora Becker. A girl named Barta Nunmovn' Herldon, and myself. Mtatilda iewis. I though he mentioned Af Lewis, Matilda Lewis' husband, who was in for a short time. Norman Byrne, who was in and ont. Abe MAinkis. Honozr Carey. I didn't remenbr the Rose Posell he mentioned. I don't remember the person. I remember the name vaguely. 540 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN T1HE LOS ANOLES AIKA He mentioned Sam Kalish. That was recalled to inn when I heard it, I didn't ivinenibor It. I reall lie was a moniber of that groulp for a time, Those were the only ones I had, except that person-I member that was a vague, sha(lowy person who wias there a little and was ill and left. 
Mr. TAMNm.Did you meet with itCommumist Party fractiol, a fraction of tie Communist Party that--. Dr,Lrwis. I believe I did on one occasion, The one that Hern(lon union it fraction meeting, but as it mentioned. I didn't remember It its exttutive board meeting. MY neniory is really foggy ol that,. al)pendietis, and that The (lay after I went into Ih ho.lla for Ili sort of toOk over lily attention for tie tiChl, I doi't really whether it was itfraction or itunion executive board meeting, which was soe-ne times held on ItState basis.
Mr. TAVPNN.It. I have no f further questions, 
Mr. JAUKSON. Mr. Clardy I
Mr. C0AIy. No further questions.
Mr. JACKsoN. Mr. MoulderI 
Mr. Movuwn. No further questions.
Mr. TAVPNNPJn. 1 do have another question. 'Mr. JACKSON. ?4r. Scherer, (1o you have any questions? 
Mr. Simatrt. Not. with the witness. I have a comniont.
Mr. JACKSON. All right, counsel.
Mr,'TAv.NxN . Will you state what your experience has been since it became known you were going to be subpenited to testify before this conlmitteeo? 'Dr.L.wms. (hldly. I would like to say that the fi.t thing-amd this to me is extremely iportilnlt-is the thing that, Hte0'mdon sa id id matter of great I think others will tell you tho sitine t iing that it is it relief to have this thing out in (the opl, inl person. When I was served with the subpena there were itsubstantial number of people who, at the time, had known about this for various reasons, why I don't nieed to explain, I nm sure. However, the mminumt1e it was out, it was annomined in'the lIi)pers and I had no reaction except favorable sport from hundreds and hundreds of people. I could get, if the committee wished-I would be glad to get-another deluge of letters-from people who have known my work for about 12 to 15 years, or more, who would give me moral support, who came forward and said, "We have confidence in you. Go to ft." It bothers me to think-and again some more ashes-why itperson doesn't realize that tle confidence of the people, you can't Lave Iuore confidence in tie people when you are liked than when you are em- barrassed. A person can be very fearful of being embarrassed. Bit once you get it out in the open you find you have your friends with you, and people that know you back you up. There is no reaction except one of great relief. It is now open and you can, in fact, be kidded. That is the first thing. The second thing, I was delighted with the community reaction in our own community, where the papers pointed out, in what I would call very stable tones, that this committee was doing a job and those people who came before it should not be considered criminals or in any way unpleasant characters, because they were called by the com. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TU LOS ANGELES AREA 541 mittee. But that the facts should explain things to the public whet . the facts bleeani completely known. (Our college felt Ileased with ti1e ptlilc reaction. We have, to my knowledge, 1itd no onie call up and say, "Isn't he fired yet?" See what I mean ? It hais been complete suppo'rt.
Mr. I'AVENNEII. I havo no futrther questions.
Mr..lclcsNO. Oilbehalf of (lie connittee, I Woid like to exten(I outr very silleerO thanks fol' youir cooperation and the very able pre. sentittion that you have made of your own experiences in the Cotnmunist Party. Is there any reason why the witness should not le excused?
Mr. TAVRNN.n. No.
Mr. JACKSON. You 110 excused. Thank you, ''he committeee will stand in recess for 10 ininutos. (8hort revess taken.) (At, th end of lie reess, at. 3 : p. in I)onald i. Jackson, Kit Clardy, Gordon ir. Scherer, Firauieis 4,.Writer, Morgan M. Moulder, Jauiies It. Fritzier. Ji,, were presentt.)
Mr. ,JACKsoN. Who is your n)ext witness? ll'. 'l'AVENNIt. Mr. Harry Stelnmetz. 
Mri-. (Chairman, I iave no (lea how lontg it will be before the witness alml)ears. May we ('1ill another witness? Ci'. ,JCI(MN. I think it might be h sirahile to call another 
Mr. ''AvFNNin. Mr. Abrahm Minkus. witness. 
Mr. JA'KSON. I)o 'oll sohtnmily swear tie testimoy you are about to give before this committee shAll be the truth, the hole truth, and nothing lbut the truth so help you God?.
Mr. MINKUH. Yes, i do. TESTIMONY OF ABRAHAM MINKUS, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUN. SEL, WILLIAM B. ESTERMAN AND DANIEL G. MARSHALL MAi.TAVENNER. What is your name, please, sirf
