Mr. ODETS. Yes, Mr. Gressman.
Mr. WOOD. Please identify yourself for the record.
Mr. GRESSM.AN. Eugene Gressman, 1830 Jefferson Place NW., Washington.
Mr. WOOD. During the progress of your examination, you are at liberty to confer with your counsel at any time you may desire, to seek such information and advice from him as you want. He is at liberty to confer with you at any time.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name, please, sir?
Mr. ODETS. Clifford Odets.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Odets, you appeared before the committee in executive session on April 24, 1952. The purpose of your appearance 3453 3454 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY here today is to obtain your testimony in open hearings and to question you further on matters discussed at the earlier hearings. Will you please state the time and place of your birth?
Mr. ODETS. I was born in Philadelphia, Pa., July 18, 1906.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your formal education?
Mr. ODETs. Two years of high school, and elementary school in the Bronx, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. ODETS. I am a playwright and a theater director.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you also engaged in the acting profession?
Mr. ODETS. I have in the past been an actor. I have written and directed for movies. (Representative Harold H. Velde entered the room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. ODETS. In New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where have you lived during your professional career? That is, as an actor and as a playwright and director.
Mr. ODETS. I have lived in Philadelphia, I have worked and lived in Camden, N. J.; Chester, Pa.; Hollywood, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, will you tell us when you went to Hollywood?
Mr. ODETS. My first visit to Hollywood was after I became a playwright, at the end of 1935. I went as a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. And how long did you remain in Hollywood?
Mr. ODETS. I would guess at that time about 10 or 12 weeks.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you return to Hollywood at a later time?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; I have been there a number of times since.
Mr. TAvENNER. Well, would you tell us as nearly as you can the periods when you were in Hollywood? At first I understood you to say it was the end of 1935.
Mr. ODETS. 1935. After that I will guess two or three excursions to Hollywood to make one picture. That would be between the years of 1936 and perhaps 1941.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the title of the picture?
Mr. ODETS. I went one time to make a picture for Paramount called Gettysburg. I went one time for United Artists to make a picture called The River Is Blue, which I did not finally write. I went at another time to write The Life of George Gershwin; and finally in 1943 I went to Hollywood for a period of slightly over 4 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you leave Hollywood and return to New York?
Mr. ODETS. I will guess in 1947 and a half or 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. And since that time how have you been employed or in what work have you been engaged?
Mr. ODETS. I have since then in New York City written and produced two plays, one of which I directed, my last one.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are their names?
Mr. ODETS. The first one was called The Big Knife, and the second one was called The Country Girl.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Big Knife was in 1948 and the Country Girl in 1951, I believe.
Mr. ODETS. I think so. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3455 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you cease being an actor and become a playwright ?
Mr. ODETS. I think this happened at the end of 1934 or the beginning of 1935, in there.
Mr. TAVENNER. So from that time until you went to Hollywood, you were engaged solely in the work of a playwright, is that correctly
Mr. ODETS. Since then, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are the principal plays that were written by you after you became a playwright in 1934 or 1935?
Mr. ODETS. The first play I wrote was called Awake and Sing. The second two plays after that were called respectively Waiting for Lefty and Till the Day I Die.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were those plays produced? 
Mr. ODETS. Those three plays were produced the early part 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you certain that all three were produced 1935 ?
Mr. ODETS. It is possible that that Waiting for Lefty would produced at the end of 1934. It would be a matter of a month two. of in be or 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your next play ? 
Mr. ODETS. The next play was called Paradise Lost.
Mr. TAVENNER. And it was produced in 1936, was it not?
Mr. ODETS. About, I guess so. I am not quite certain of the dates.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then can you give us the other plays produced by you?
Mr. ODETS. I am trying to think in chronological order again.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the Golden Boy the next in order?
Mr. ODETS. I think so, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Produced in 1937?
Mr. ODETS. I think so, yes, sir. Then after that would come Rocket to the Moon.
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1939?
Mr. ODETS. I think so. Or maybe a little earlier, 1938 or 1938 and a half.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to the production of Rocket to the Moon, did you write a play entitled "Silent Partner?"
Mr. ODETS. Yes, except that is was not produced. It was imperfectly written, therefore it was not produced.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, after your play Rocket to the Moon, did you write and produce Night Music ?
Mr. ODETS. Correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the date of that was in 1940, was it not?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what was the next after that?
Mr. ODETS. After that Billy Rose produced a play of mine called Clash by Night.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was in 1942?
Mr. ODETS. I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you have already made reference to your plays The Big Knife and The Country Girl. Did that compose the entire list, with the addition of the three pictures you produced in Hollywood? 3456 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. I have written more movies. Not many of them saw production, and frequently I was employed as a play doctor in Hollywood to improve other writers' scripts.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Odets, there has been testimony before the committee that you were at one time a member of the Communist Party. Was that testimony correct?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. My best guess on that would be from toward the end of 1934 to the middle of 19:5, covering maybe anywhere from 6 to 8 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you relate to the committee the circumstances under which you joined the Communist Party Let me put it this way: How were you recruited into the Communist Party and by whom?
Mr. ODETS. As has been testified here before, there were a number a small group, of Comnmnist Party members in this Group Theater, of a total Group Theater membership of perhaps 35 there were four or five people who were connected with the Communist Party. Literature was passed around, and in a time of great social unrest many people found themselves reaching out for new ideas, new ways of solving depressions or making a better living, fighting for one's rights, whatever those were.
Mr. KEARNEY. What were those rights?
Mr. ODETS. Those rights would be to have steady employment.
Mr. KEARNEY. Beg your pardon
Mr. ODET. The rights to be steadily employed, for instance. I believe at that time there were perhaps 15 or 16 million unemployed people in the United States, and I myself was living on 10 cents a day. Therefore, I was interested in any idea which might suggest how as an actor I could function as a working actor who could make a living at a craft lie had chosen for his life's work. These were the early days of the New Deal, and I don't think that one has to describe them. They were horrendous days that none of us would like to go through again. On this basis there was a great deal of talk about amelioration of conditions, about how should one live, by what values should one work for, and in line with this there was a great deal of talk about Marxist values. One read literature; there were a lot of penny and 2-cent and 5-cent pamphlets. I read them along with a lot of other people, and filially joined the Communisi t Party, in the belief, in the honest and real belief, that this was some way out of the dilemma in which we found ourselves. Does that answer your question?
Mr. TAVENNER. I think it does, except that you have not told exact circumstances under which von were recruited into the us the party. What was the process of recruitment used in your case?
Mr. ODETS. Well, it went that you read some pamphlets: you listened to some one talk, and finally a person would ask you if you to join the Communist Party. In my case it happened didn't want "No; I don't. When I am ready. I will." I was not ready that month, I was ready a iiiontih or two later. "
Mr.T\AVENINER. Who was the individual who made that suggestion to you ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3457 
Mr. ODETS. This would be an actor friend of mine named J. Edward Bromberg.
Mr. TAVENN ER. Was he a member of the Group Theater?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; lie was.
Mr. KEARNEY. Was he the actor who died a few months ago
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; he is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who actually recruited you into the party?
Mr. ODETS. My best inmemor would be that Mr. Bromberg did.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were recruited into the party, were you assigned to a particular cell or group?
Mr. OrDETS. Yes; it would be to be connected with those few people who were in the Group Theater.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Who were the other persons who were members of the same cell of the Communist Party to which von were assigned / AMr. ODETS. Well, they have been mentioned here as Lewis Leverett, a young actiess named Phoebe Brand, and an actor about whom you refreshed my memory the last time I was here named Art Smith.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is Art Smith?
Mr. ODETS. And then from m reading of the New York Times a couple of other members were mentioned that I have no memory of, as I told you.
Mr. TAVENNr.R. Elia Kazan ' Was he a member of that group
Mr. ODETS. Yes, Mr. Kazan.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you meet with all of those persons as members of the Communist Party; that is, those you have named up to the present time?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir. /
Mr. TAV.ENNER. Tony Kraber
Mr. ODETS. He, too.
Mr. TAVENxNx.i He is included in the group. Also, do you recall a person by the name of Sid Benson, also known as Ted Wellman?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; I knew him.
Mr. T.AVENNER. Was he an attendant at your Communist Party meetings in this Group Theater?
Mr. ODETS. He came in as an occasional visitor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you as a functionary in the Communist Party ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I actually did not know what lie did. I thought for a while he was a man who wrote newspaper articles. Then my impression became that he was some kind of party functionary.
Mr. TAVENNER. But he was not a member of the Group Theater as such ?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir; lie was not an actor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did this person, Wellman or Sid Benson, ever visit in your home ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir: he did. He was a friend of mine.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what was the occasion for his visiting in your home? Were you at that time living in the city of New York?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he live in the city of New York at that time?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; he did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not he was subsequently transferred to the State of Tennessee? 3458 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. I think so, because one time on a long extended auto trip I did meet him in Tennessee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he visit your home while he was in Tennessee? 
Mr. ODETs. Not that I would remember. He would visit my home when he lived in New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of his visits at your home in New York?
Mr. ODETS. They were always social visits. We both were interested in music, fine classical music, records. We might go out to dinner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did any of those visits have anything to do with his interest or his work in the Communist Party ?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir; in 1o way.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you subsequently learn that he became an organizer for the Communist Party in Tennessee ?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know that of my knowledge; of my own personal knowledge, I don't know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Andrew Obergaard?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; I met him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Under what circumstances did you meet him?
Mr. ODETS. In some way that I wouldn't remember. He came backstage in one of our plays. And perhaps we went out to get a bite to eat or something to drink, some coffee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he attend the group meetings of the Communist Party cell meetings to which you referred?
Mr. ODETs. I would guess that he was introduced to people who were connected with this group within the group, so to speak.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you recognize him as a functionary of the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. This would be my good guess.
Mr. TAVENNER. On what do you base that statement ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, the Communist Party functionaries, when they are such, are always secretive. They never announce themselves as Communist Party functionaries. But they have a quality of authority, a quality of talking with knowledge, and one makes the surmise that this is some kind of functionary.
Mr. TAVENNER. And it was on the basis of that conduct on his part that your judgment was that he was a functionary of the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any occasions when his advice was sought on Communist Party problems?
Mr. ODETs. I remember one such occasion. The occasion, as I think I have stated before, was we thought that actors should get rehearsal pay, which was an unheard of thing and rather a lunatic idea in those days. We wanted or perhaps we did first go to an Actors' Equity Association meeting and made no headway at all. My best memory is that we then in some way consulted with Mr. Obergaard, who suggested certain tactical moves to make to get our proposal on the floor, and I have no memory of particular details but I do know that this sm all group within the Group Theater did get for every actor in the United States rehearsal pay. That is, we were the beginning of such a movement. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3459 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether Obergaard was connected with any Communist trade-union organization at that time?
Mr. ODETs. There was some such talk. It was obvious that he was a trade-union man. It was on that basis that we would have consulted with him. But what exactly it was, I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of your membership in the party, were you required to make a study of Marxist literature?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; it was a great day for literature. One read and one was supposed to read constantly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you take up those studies in meetings of your group?
Mr. ODETS. I personally did not do too much because it was a little beyond me, and my interest was going toward writing plays. To study these matters required really months of very serious study which I did not give them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend meetings where the principles of Marxism were discussed and studied?
Mr. ODETS. I never did. I personally never did that.
Mr. TAVENNFR. You mean you never attended or never studied?
Mr. ODET. I never studied in such groups. It would be a matter of taking home a newspaper or pamphlet and reading it. There were such study groups but I did not attend them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you obtain the material?
Mr. ODETS. The material was bought. The material was bought at the Workers' Bookshop. Or it was given to you or bought for you by some other member.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many meetings did you attend in the group?
Mr. ODETS. I am quite certain they were very few.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were meetings held regularly ?
Mr. ODETS. I think that meetings are held regularly. Let us say, for instance, once a week. And that special meetings would be called on the basis of some complaint or something that had to be fixed. I gave you what seemed to be a rather silly example of saying, "Well, we don't get clean drinking glasses around here." They would call a meeting at 10 or 11 o'clock that night to discuss that subject. I thought it was a little silly, and I refused to attend such meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were any of the meetings held in your home ?
Mr. ODETS. No; I don't think I had a home then. I was a very poor man.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was the period of time that Wellman was visiting you in your home?
Mr. ODETS. This would be later.
Mr. TAVENNER. How much later?
Mr. ODETS. I might think in the next 6 months or a year.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you fix the time as nearly as you can by giving us the months of the year that it may have occurred.
Mr. ODETS. That is difficult, because, because this was on and off for a number of years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you state the year?
Mr. ODETs. I would be guessing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just not a guess, but your best judgment.
Mr. ODETS. Well, if I said he visited me once or twice in 1935 and then perhaps later in 1936, this would be my best judgment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he visit you at any time after 1936 ? 3460 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. Yes, a number of times.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the occasion of those visits and the time, approximate time?
Mr. ODETS. I sleep very late, sometimes until 2 or 3 o'clock in the afternoon, because I work very late. I work frequently until 5 or 6 in the morning. So, I might get up in the afternoon and he might telephone me and say "What are you doing for dinner?" I would Come on over and we will go for a walk and go to say, "Nothing." such-and-such a restaurant." The visits would be of that sort.
Mr. TAVENNER. When, over what period of time did that take place?
Mr. ODETS. I would guess up until 1938, perhaps 1939, I1don't know; quite late.
Mr. TAVENNEi?. 1938 or 1939?
Mr. ODETS. I would guess so.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of the hearing conducted by this committee regarding [William Walter] Remington, there was testimony by Mr. [Howard Allen] Bridgman that Ted Wellman was the organizer of the Communist Party for the State of Tennessee. That was at the time that Remington was employed at the Tennessee Valley Authority. And the period of time that Wellman was the State organizer of Tenn-ee was during tl is period that you say he visited you in New York, 1938 and 1939, and earlier. Do you know what Ted Wellman's business was in New York on those occasions when he visited you?
Mr. ODETS. I have no way of knowing. My best memory is that he lived in New York City. My best memory would be that around 1939, perhaps even 1940, that he lived in New York. Mind you, I cannot be exact becanue my memory is not that good on date-.
Mr. TA.\VENNER. Mr. Remington testified before this committee that he knew Ted Wellman and that he met him in Tennessee in the spring of 1937, and again in June of that year. Now, did lie visit you during the period of 1!17?
Mr. ODETS. I am sorry, I have no way of remembering that. There is no way that I can tie it up in mv mind.
Mr. TAVENNER. Having met with him as a member of Lhe Communist Party in the year of 1935, it would seem no more than logical to expect that he discussed Communist Party matters with you when he later met you and was a visitor in your home.
Mr. ODETS. I would think that the mostMr. TAVENNER. We would like to know about it, if that is the case.
Mr. ODETS. 1 always thought of him as a kind of political commentator, later, because he read every newspaper that came out. I know he wrote some kind of articles, and he gave me the impression of being, later, not a Communist Party organizer but ome kind of professional political commentator. And if any politics were brought up in my house or when we met, it would be his kind of comments on what was happening in the world; that was all.
Mr. TA.VENNER. Who was the leader of the group to which you were assigned, the group within the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. I don't remember any leader. As a matter of fact, I don't know that there was a leader in the sense that you used the word. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3461 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, who would call the special meetings and act as chairman
Mr. ODETS. I am sorry. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the treasurer of the group ?
Mr. ODETS. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you pay dues?
Mr. ODETS. I must have.
Mr. TAVENNER. To whom did you pay them ?
Mr. ODETS. My only thought would be that it was to one of these members of the group within the group, but who that was I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. How much dues did you pay?
Mr. ODETS. I am sure it must have been a very slight amount, perhaps 50 cents or a dollar a week, or something of that sort.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you required to subscribe to the Daily Worker?
Mr. ODETS. You were asked to do that, but if you were a poor actor you weren't going to pay $10 a year for a newspaper.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you subscribe to it?
Mr. ODETS. I think maybe I did, for 3 months. You could get quarter subscriptions. That was a very expensive item.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you made financial contributions of any character to the Daily Worker, above the subscription, above your subscription amounts?
Mr. ODEIS. I don't remember-Mr. TAVENNER. Either while you were within the party or afterward?
Mr. ODETS. I don't remember doing it for the Daily Worker, but I have been tapped, I was tapped then, from time to time, for a contribution to the New Masses. Someone might come up and say we are hard pressed, you can give us or lend us $25 or $50.
Mr. KEARNEY. Was this during the period of the time that you were a poor actor?
Mr. ODETS. This was during the period when I first began to make money a, a playwright.
Mr. VELDE. What period was that ?
Mr. ODETS. At the beginning of 1935. January, February, March of 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you were requested to make donations to the New Masses?
Mr. ODETS. They came up frequently after that, too, and asked for donations.
Mr. TAX ENN ER. Did you make them?
Mr. ODETS. Not to the best of my memory. I may have, but not to the best of my memory.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was the last contribution you made for New Masses?
Mr. ODETS. If I had to make a guess, it would be some time in 1935. iMr. TAVENNER. Going back again to Ted Wellman, you told us that you visited Tennessee, and did you state that while you were there that you saw Wellman 2
Mr. ODETS. I did see him, yes. I think I had.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occasion for your visit to Tennessee? 3462 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. Well, when you come up from Mexico City, you pass through Texas and you pass through certain States, and anywhere in any State where I knew anyone, I stopped and said hello.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was this visit made ?
Mr. ODETS. I would make a guess 1937 or 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was Ted Wellman's occupation in Tennessee at that time, at the time you visited him?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I can't say of my own knowledge, because of my own knowledge I thought that he was some kind of newspaper writer. There was some-I forget the name of it-there was some very liberal newspaper there, with a very liberal editor. And I thought that he worked for that newspaper. In looking back now, that would be my memory of my impression at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occasion of your trip to Mexico at that time?
Mr. ODETS. I was unhappily divorcing a wife, and I wanted to go on a trip.
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't mean to inquire into your personal matters.
Mr. ODETS. No; I will tell you honestly.
Mr. TAVENNEr. Have you made any financial contributions other than membership dues to the Communist Party ?
Mr. ODE.TS. No memory of any such contribution. That is, since the days of 1935.
Mr. T.AENNER. How long did you remain a member of the party?
Mr. ODETs. I would say between 6 and 8 or 9 months.
Mr. T i N xrN. Whlat were the circumstances under which you terminated your party membership ?
Mr. ODeTS. I was connected with what you would call or did call then, the cultural front, and it came to the point of where I thought if I can't respect these people on a so-called cultural basis, that is, let us say as literary or theater critics, I don't know what I am doing here. I remember telling you that when my plays came out one after another, they received fantastically bad notices, although a play like Waiting for Lefty was widely used not only by the Communists but by all liberal organizations and trade-union movements. I not only disagreed with their critical statements of my work, but I disagreed with their critical estimates of anybody's work, writers that I didn't know, as I mentioned, like Steinbeck and Hemingway. I had a great number of fights about that. And I simply thought this is not for me, there is no reason for me to be mixed up in there; I am a playwright; I have established myself as a playwright; I have a great deal of work to do; I have enough to say out of my own mind and heart, and I had better leave. This would be the general attitude under which I left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you be specific as to the month of the year in which you left the party?
Mr. ODETS. I ail sorry,' I can't. Well, I would guess it was somewhere in the latter half of 1935.
Mr. TA :xNNiR. During the time of your affiliation with the Communist Party, did you engage imnany special activity for the party?
Mr. ODETS. None that I remember, no.
Mr. TAVEINNiER. Do you recall having been made chairman of the American ('onuinion'i to Investigate Labor and Social Conditions in Cuba? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3463 
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir, I distinctly remember that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you make a trip to Cuba as a member of that commission ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, that was in June of 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the information in the files of the committee, this commission was composed of yourself as chairman, representing the League of American Writers. That is correct, is it not?
Mr. ODTrs. I did not have that memory of it until you mentioned it the last time. It is correct, I know that now.
Mr. TAVENNER. And that the other members of the Commission of which you were the chairman were Fred L. Gordo, secretary, representing the League of American Writers; also, Manning Johnson of the Food Workers Industrial Union; Herman Reissig, of the American League Against War and Fascism; Mary Gruber, also of the American League Against War and Fascism; Celeste Strack of the National Students League; Elsa Waldman of the National Students League; Paul Crosbie, of the American League of Ex-Servicemen; Lucille Perry, of the Provisional Committee for Cuba; Dora Zucker of International Ladies' Garment Workers Union; Conrad Komorowski, of the All American Anti-Imperialist League; Paul Irving of the Unemployed Teachers Association; Jose Santag, representing 13 Latin-Amneicain orgumzatiomii in New York; Mason Shaffer, of the International Workers' Order; and Frank Griffin of the International Labor Defense. Did you know any of these people before you made the trip to Cuba with them?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir; not one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know any of them to be members of the Communist Party or did you discover their membership in the Communist Party while on your trip to Cuba or in a subsequent period?
Mr. ODETS. I would say on the boat I discovered that some of them were members of the Communist Party. Some of the names, I just wrote them down, and you did mention them the last time. I actually right now do not remember but about half of these people. I am hard put to place in my mind who some of these others were. But I would guess that the number of these persons were certain members of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell us which of them were members of the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I am going to guess that Komorowski was. I am going to guess that Manning Johnson was. I am going to guess that Celeste Strack was. And that is where I shall have to stop.
Mr. TAVENNER. How was this commission chosen ?
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Counsel, I do not think we should leave the record in that condition, unless the witness has some knowledge about it. The fact that he said he would guess at it, the record ought to be clarified on the three names that were mentioned. I do not think the committee would want it to stand in that condition. See if you can clarify that. If not, there is the mere fact that he is guessing.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know as a matter of fact that any of the three names that you mentioned were members of the Communist Perty and, if so, you can name them. 3464 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. I beg your pardon.
Mr. KEARNEY. Read the question. (The pending question was read by the official reporter.)
Mr. ODETS. I should think that Komorowski was a member of the Communist Party, definitely.
Mr. KEARNEY. When you say you should think that Komorowski was a member of the Communist Party, upon what do you base that assumption ?
Mr. ODETS. I was only nominally the chairman of this committee. When I got on the boat and the committee started for Cuba, I discovered, should I say to my disgust, that this man actually was the expert and I was the idealist, so to speak, that was connected. I was the idealist who had some kind of publicity value and he was the expert on Latin-American affairs. He spoke with such authority and such knowledge that I simply supposed that lie was, if there were other Communist Party delegates on this committee, that he was the top one.
Mr. KEARNEY. You mean that he spoke with such authority on Communist affairs?
Mr. ODETS. I would put it that way.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did he ever tell you that he was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ODETS. No: they never do.
Mr. KEARNEY. What else transpired on the voyage from New York to Cuba that would lead you to believe that this individual was a member of the Communist Party? Did you discuss with him Communist Party affairs?
Mr. ODETs. No, but there were. what I should call tactical discussions, what do you do when you get there, what happens, what kind of statements shall one give the pres And since this man led the discuIson, since this man planned the tactics, I would say that he was a Conunit Party member and was really the head of the delegation.
Mr. KEIARNFY. What do you mean by planning tactics? Do you mean Communist Party tactics?
Mr. OBETS. No; I mean in relation to this particular expedition, let's call it, this particular junket. I was, for instance, astonished to learn on the boat that when we got to Cuba we were going to be arrested. This was news to me. I didn't know anything about that, to make an example. So there would be a meeting'on what do we do when we get arrested. And this was the man who seemed to know what we do.
Mr. KE IRNiEY. You were advised you were to be arrested. Did they tell you what you were to be arrested for? On what grounds?
Mr. ODE)TS. What grounds? Well, the grounds weie that we were per-ona non grata in Cuba at that time.
Mr. Ki,ERXNEY. That covers a lot of grounds, does it not?
Mr. ODETs. That is kind of what happened.
Mr. KF..xRNI Y. Were you accused directly of being members of the Communist Partyv
Mr. ODETS. Thlle delegation was being accused of being a Communist delegation, and the inception of the delegation, when it was brought to my attention, was that it was a broad front delegation. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3465 If I am not mistaken, this was the time of the United Front, this was the time when the Communist Party tried to work with all other liberal and left groups. Actually, there were a lot of people on this delegation who in my opinion had nothing to do with Communists or communisin.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you arrested or were the members of the delegation arrested by the Cuban authorities?
Mr. ODnTS. We were promptly arrested and promptly lined up and marched to jail.
Mr. KE\RNEY. Were you asked whether you were members of the Communist Party or not liy the police of Cuba ?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir; we were not asking anything. We were not told anything and not asked. We were just arrested.
Mr. KEARNI v. Arrested and put in jail. Were there any charges placed against you?
Mr. ODETS. No We were held incommunicado except for a phone call or two for about 24 hours and to see the American consul. And then I asked him with a great deal of honest indignation why we were arrested, what this was aboul, and it hadMr. KEARNEY. Pardon me for interrupting, but was this the time that you yourself were a member of the Commnunist Party
Mr. ODETS. I might have been. Yes, I was.
Mr. KEARNEY. That was the ?time that you asked with honest indignation what it was all about
Mr. OUETS. I believe the indignation was honest, sir. I went there as a citizen of the United States. I didn't go theie as a Communist Party member.
Mr. KE \RNEY. I inferred from your answers that the group was arrested because they were members of the Communist Pai ty.
Mr. ODFTS. We weren't told why we were arrested. As a matter of fact, after reading the newspaper when I got back to New York City, because I couldn't read the Spanish newspapers, I learned that that is why we had been arrested. I, of course, suspected-I am not going to be naive-I suspected that that is why we were arrested.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you see the Ameiican consul or talk with him?
Mr. O.DET. I saw him one time, and he said very coyly, "You know, you know." A very coy gentleman.
Mr. KEARNEY. And you were held there for 24 hours?
Mr. ODETS. Twenty-four or 36, something like that.
Mr. KEARNEY. What happened after that ?
Mr. ODETS. Then we were very carefully marched back to another boat going back to New York and we were on our way back to New York. It was not a pleasant experience.
Mr. KEANFY. I should not think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. You later found out that the person originally selected to act as chairman of this commission was Mother Bloor, did you not ?
Mr. ODETS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. And why was it that Mother Bloor did not go through with the assignment, or the proposed assignment ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, when I got back I had a real indignation because I thought that if one went down there on the basis of saying there is a horrible, repressive movement here against intellectuals and col21546-52-pt. 8-2 3466 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY lege students, that one should fight out on that line. If you believed that. It was not simply a tactic to get your name in the newspaper or a tactic to get some newspaper space, but you really should fight about that. When the arrest took place the whole matter seemed to be dropped. So I, simply on that matter, I went back to New York with a great deal of indignation, talked really to very few members of the delegation going back on the boat, and later, I can't remember whom, but spoke to someone in New York and was rather aroused by this idea that we had been manhandled, because we were, and I was indignant because no one seemed to make a fight about that. During this time I also said it was very dangerous, which it was, because there were dozens of secret police there with machine guns, some of them dressed as dock workers in overalls. I said it was t very dangerous matter and they said, "Yes, it was so dangerous that we had originally intended to send Mother Bloor down as head of the delegation but it was so dangerous we didn't send her." She was an old lady.
Mr. KEARNEY. They sent you down as chairman instead of Mother Bloor ?
Mr. ODF.TB. So I said he might have at least told me this and given me the chance to decide whether I wanted to face machine guns.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was it that told you that it had been the decision to send Mother Bloor?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know. Somebody that came to see me or I visited, I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it the same person that designated you as chairman in the first instance?
Mr. ODETS. I don't remember who that was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it a Communist Party functionary who was giving this explanation?
Mr. ODETS. I will guess it had to be. But who that was, I honestly can't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, actually, this was nothing more than a Communist Party idea to send this commission to Cuba for its own propaganda purposes?
Mr. ODETS. Well, today, with a little more sophistication, I would say so. 
Mr. TAVENNEa. Well, Manning Johnson, to whom you referred as a person that you guessed was a member of the Communist Party, testified before this committee and admitted his former Communist Party membership, and in the course of his testimony he stated: I was secretary of the American Commission to Cuba and I was sent to Cuba to help the revolutionary forces there. I might sav from the point of view of background that Cubhaat that time was in a state of revolution. They had overthrown the government of Machado and the Mendieta-Batista revolutionary junta haid come into po- r. We were assigned to tour the islands and assist the Communist forces to overthrow this Mendieta-Batista junta and put in power Grau San Martin and his group They considered the Grau San Martin government would he a government that would permit Communists to operate openly. That is all I can recall at the present time But I do know we were thiuwn in jail down there and I never will forget the experience. 
Mr. VELDE. Referring to your guess that Celeste Strack, I believe it was, was a member of the Communist Party. On what do you base it, on what facts do you base your guess? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3467 
Mr. ODETS. As a matter of fact, quick, smart girl. Knew how to -move tactically. Air. VELDE. Are all smart, quick people Commnunist Party members
Mr. ODETs. Well, there is a certain kind of professionalism. There I must adis a certain kind of professionalism in certain situations. nmit I never had it, and that was why this whole delegation was taken naive, I 1 was that. about nothing I knew over by other people. didn't even know what we were going into. So my guess about her comes from simply her tactical smartness.
Mr. VELDE. And you had a conversation or several conversations with her, I suppose, on the trip ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. Did she ever mention that she was a member?
Mr. ODETS. They do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Odets, will you tell the committee just how this commission was created. and the circumstances, and more about the circumstances, under which you were designated as chairman?
Mr. OmDTS. I listened very carefully to what you read there, the statement of Manning Johnson. He is talking awfully big. Hie is talking awfully big in a sense that , or 10 or whatever the number is left and hlberal people from Ne.v York City could go down to Cuba and change the course of this horrible Cuban revolution. This is very big talk. If we were going to do what Mr. Johnison said, we certainly should not have announced in a public press that we were all getting on a boat and going down there to make a fuss. So my simple point is that the point of the mission could not have been what lie said. that we were going to go in and take over anything, or contact anyone. I suppose in the matter of common sense if you would contact anybody in Cuba, that you would go down there silently and slip in.
Mr. VELDE. What was your purpose in going to Cuba on this mission ?
Mr. ODETS. The purpose that attracted me was that there were fears, oppressive measures taken against thousands of intellectuals and college students. They were thrown into jail, under the previous Machado regime, which was a horrible regime. I then was glad to go down in the sense of, if nothing else did happen, we would dramatize what the issues were down there. Of course, the stories that were coming out were very garbled. No one know what was happening. As a matter of fact, I frankly think that later the American Embassy straightened out the whole thing and was a salutary and moderating influence on the situation.
Mr. WooD. What did you propose to do about it when you went down there ? What did you have in your mind, what was your purpose in going?
Mr. ODETS. I would guess, sir, that our arrival would encourage and hearten certain sections of the Cuban people in the sense of saving, you see, here are people from the United States who are interested in you and your problems and your employment. That, I would guess, would be tlie best point, the best point of such a delegation.
Mr. Woon. Did you have a plan or a program as to the course of conduct when you got there ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, to my surprise, as I said before, the plan was that we were going to get arrested, which I did not know about. I must 3468 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY admit I was-let me admit I was politically extremely naive, and I remember distinctly the night before the boat docked, which was a festive occasion on an excursion boat, we were called together and told, I behei e by Komorowski, that this is what was going to happen.
Mr. TAVENNER. You found that you were not in command of your own commission but that Komorowski was?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNIE,. And that it was known that you were to be arrested before you reached Cuba, and that was part of the plan?
Mr. ODETS. I will say this, sir. Evidently a lot of these people had far more background than I did in political scuffling, and they knew that that was going to happen. I didn't know. It was particularly in that sense that I meant I was politically namv'.
Mr. TAVEXXNER. Then if it was planned that your group should be arrested, I mean part of the plans of your commission, then this was nothing more than a propaganda stunt, isn't t hat true ?
Mr. ODETS. It finally turned out that way. It finally turned out the way you say.
Mr. KEARNEY. In the parlance of everyday language, you were known as the fall guy, is that it?
Mr. ODETS. A little bit. A little bit.
Mr. VELDE. Do you know whether Komorowski had definite knowledge that you were going to be arrested ?
Mr. ODETS. He simply seemed to hax e sufficient political background to know that that was what was going to happen. And lie had that much grace to say the night before the boat, lands to be prepared for this.
Mr. VELDE. Did lie tell you that? Is that the way you learned about it ?
Mr. ODETS. That would he the substance of what he said, and that was certainly the way I learned about it.
Mr. T_ VEINxNER. Now. you have spoken several times of being rather naive in political matters yourself, and others such as Komorowski being experienced. You are actually referring there to experience in Communist Party tactics, aren't you? You are not speaking of experience in the broad field of politics, but you are speaking of Komorowski's Cot omnnmunist Party tactics and experience?
Mr. ODETI. I aln actually speaking of both, of both. There are Communist Party tat'.cs which are exclusively their own and my knowledge would he that there ai e iommunist Party tactics which are shared typically by many polticians, because they are also politicians. They would also be versed in the tactics of solidifying trade-unionism, which is again shared by many non-C(omuinnist trade-unionists. There is simply professional know-how in all of those things.
Mr. TAvENN I. You have told us about your experience when you returned, and you met a person who you ijudged to be a functionary of the Communist Party who told you that the plan originally was to send someone else as chairman of the commission. Was that the same person who placed you on this commission to begin with, or suggested to you that you accept such a position?
Mr. ODE'TS. It is possible, but I can't remember. It is possible, but I actually can't remember. (At thins point Representative Harold H. Velde left the hearing room.) COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3469 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where was it that you met this individual?
Mr. ODETS. That I don't remember, either.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as chairman of this committee, did you make a report to anyone on your return to the United States?
Mr. ODETS. Whoever this person was, the extent of my report I have told you. I was quite indignant about how routinely, how cut and dried the matter seemed. I was told that they knew in advance that it was going to be dangerous, and I made some statement about the very disgraceful conduct of one of the members of the delegation. I told you about that the last time.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you indignant about the actions of the Cuban police or the actions of the Communist Party for leading you into such a situation ?
Mr. ODETS. It was a 50-50 matter. I was indignant with the thing myself and indignant that .a really, let my say, idealistic fight was not being made about this matter. I couldn't see it as a cut and dried matter, you do something and then you turn your back on it.
Mr. KEARNEY. Your resentment was not directed against the Communist Party for, let us say, leading you into such a trap, but it was directed equally against the Cuban police and the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Did I understand you to say, Mr. Odets, that when you returned from that junket that you made a report to somebody that you don't now remember ?
Mr. ODETS. There was someone I spoke to, and I would not say it was a formal report, because that would have beenMr. WOOD. Mr. Odets, who procured you to go?
Mr. (DETS. I don't remember that.
Mr. WOOD. Who paid your expenses?
Mr. ODETS. I paid my own expenses.
Mr. WOOD. Did you get it back?
Mr. ODETS. No, on this idealistic swing I wouldn't think of taking any expenses, I would pay my own. I am certain I paid my own expenses.
Mr. WOOD. You don't recall now who procured you to go?
Mr. ODETS. No. I know I was approached by someone and asked about it. I was anxious to get out of the country, I was anxious to take a trip. It was a beautiful trip on the water. My mother had just died 3 or 4 weeks before and I went.
Mr. WOOD. It seems so strange to me that you would make a trip of that significance at the behest of some individual, and come back from the trip after having that experience and make a report to that individual, and now you can't recall who it was.
Mr. ODETS. I would be glad to say so, if I did remember, but I don't.
Mr. FRAZIER. Who were you supposed to contact when you reached Cuba
Mr. ODETs. We had some letters to various college professors and students. There was a packet of letters, and when the police boarded the ship these letters were scuttled, they were torn up and thrown overboard.
Mr. FRAZIER. Who were these letters from?
Mr. ODETS. They would be from people in the United States, I don't know. 3470 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. FRAznm. Who gave you the letters?
Mr. ODETs. I didn't have them, Komorowski had them. But I remember they were passed like a hot plate from one to the other. The police were in earnest boarding that ship with machine guns, and passed around and it got to be like a scene from a Charlie Chaplin movie. They were torn up and thrown overboard. I just remembered that for the first time.
Mr. FRAZIER. So you didn't know who you were going down there to see ?
Mr. OnDrs. No; I didn't know.
Mr. FRAZIER. Yet you were chairman of the committee.
Mr. ODETS. I was the nominal chairman. I wouldn't let that happen today, let me say so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write any articles for publication about the trip to Cuba?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; I wrote an article for the New York Evening Post. I was also an accredited correspondent for the New York Evening Post on that trip. And my memory is that I wrote some lengthy article for them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any other articles written by you?
Mr. ODETS. It is possible there was a pamphlet written by two or three persons, of which I was one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the other persons who assisted in the writing?
Mr. ODETS. I am going to guess a very interesting man named Carleton Beals.
Mr. TAVENNER. Give us the name.
Mr. ODETs. Carleton Beals.
Mr. TAVENNER. Carleton Beals.
Mr. ODETS. He was not a Communist, but he was a fighting liberal and a very interesting man.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a pamphlet entitled "Rifle Rule in Cuba," by Carleton Beals and Clifford Odets.
Mr. ODETrs. Yes, sir; that is it. That is more than I had in my files.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write that part of the pamphlet that you see on page 11, beginning at page 11?
Mr. ODETS. I must tell you honestly that I don't know if I did. I know I wrote the New York Post article. I don't know.
Mr. KEARNEY. When the witness has finished with that, will you let me see it, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. At the conclusion, at the end of the pamphlet is a report entitled "Report of the American Commission to Investigate Labor and Social Conditions in Cuba." At the end of which appears the name "American Commission to Investigate Labor and Social Conditions in Cuba, Clifford Odets, chairman, Manning Johnson, secretary," and giving the names of the other members of it. On page 31, which is the last page, is this statement: The provisional committee for Cuba was organized precisely for the task of unifying the efforts of the American people for assistance in the struggle of the Cuban people for freedom. It 1iespecially vital that the American people help, for the way to freedom is barred primarily by American imperialist domination of Cuba Did you write that? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3471 
Mr. ODETS. No, I certainly did not write that. I know some of the facts about that situation, but I didn't write that.
Mr. TAVENNER. As chairman of the committee, which put out that report over your name, weren't you aware of that language and didn't you approve it?
Mr. ODETS. I see here that it says Clifford Odets, chairman of the commission, has written a story of what happened to the commission in Cuba. Here we want to present only your conclusions. So it is quite apparent to me that I didn't write that. But after, what I am reputed to have written, there is this extra statement by some executive committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. You recognize fully at this time, do you not, that this was all a part of the Communist Party propaganda, that it was embarking upon at that time?
Mr. ODETS. Except that I still right now don't know that this was exclusively a Communist affair. For instance, I am almost certain that Carleton Beals is not and was not a Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. But the Communist Party is well known for the manner in which it uses other people.
Mr. WOOD. Was Carleton Beals on the mission with you?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir; he was not.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Odet., who got you out of jail?
Mr. ODETS. I can give you my guess about that.
Mr. WOOD. Do you know ?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. The door just opened and you were turned out.
Mr. ODETS. Pardon?
Mr. WOOD. Did they open the doors and turn you out ?
Mr. ODETS. No: they very carefully waited until another ship was ready and carefully under guard marched us on the ship, put us on the ship and said don't come back again. I said we will come back and I will bring people you can't touch. I will bring famous liberals in New York. And that is what I wanted to do. But that never happened.
Mr. WOOD. Was there ever any formal charge made against you while you were in jail?
Mr. ODETS. None.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall having written any other articles relating to a commission to Cuba ?
Mr. ODETS. As I say, the one in the New York Evening Post.
Mr. TAVENNER. I mean in addition to those you have named.
Mr. ODETS. I may have, but I don't remember them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall writing an article for New Masses on the subject?
Mr. ODETS. No; I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of an issue of New Masses for July 16, 1935, where there appears an article entitled "What Happened to Us in Cuba," by Clifford Odets. Will you examine it, please, and state whether or not you wrote it?
Mr. ODETS. This one, I know I wrote. When I read it, I recognize my style.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the circumstances under which you wrote that article for New Masses? 3472 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. Well, I could only write this if I were asked to, and I must have been asked to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the person that asked you to write that article for New Masses?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know, but I would guess it would be one of the editors of New Masses. I knew a little at that time, a man named Joe North, and it might have been Joe North who came up. I don't quite remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the article you summed up your adventure in Cuba in part as follows: This impartial commission of investigation has shown its uncertainty of purpose by being honored by deportation by the present Cuban military dictatorship in collusion with the American Embassy officials Their collusion is clearly marked out by their negative response to our call for help. I am interested in the term used in referring to your commission as an impartial commission of investigation. Are you now of the opinion that this commission which was in fact headed by Komorowski, though you were used as a cover for it, was actually an impartial commission .
Mr. ODETS. I would say that although it had all sorts of left and liberal elements in it, that I would say now that the commission was definitely slanted, Communist Party slanted.
Mr. TAVENNRR. Well, it was Communist Party controlled under the de facto leadership of Komorowski, wasn't it ?
Mr. ODFrTS They don't quite do it that way, sir. There is always a certain, what I call a democratic procedure. Things are put to a vote. The only thing is that it doe-n't help to put thimus to a vote and they have the know-how and you don't have the know-how.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was the equivalent of telling you what to do, was it not ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, oui who didn't have the know-how, so you had to rely upon people that did.
Mr. KEARNsY. Mr. Odets, I just hastily scanned your article in the pamphlet entitled "Rifle Rule in Cuba," by Carleton Beals and Clifford Odets, your article headed l"acline-uiii Reception." Some few minutes ago you testified as to your indignant feeling against the Communist Party which was divided 50-S1 against the police for the manner in which you were treated. I can see in this article over your name the indignant manner in which you write concerning your treatment by the Cuban police. But I fail to -ee any indignant protest of yours in this article, the manner in which the Communist Party used you, as I said some time ago, as a fall guy. If there is, I wish you would point it out to me. iMr. ODETS. All that happened there was that I simply didn't know about this all until later. I had no realization of it and did not really know what happened. When it did happen, I moved out of the Commnunist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. After you found out about it, did you make any effort to change your statement?
Mr. ODETS. No, I made no effort to change my statement. I should think it would have been much too late.
Mr. TA1 ENNER. Did I understand you to say when von discovered the real facts relating to the mission to Cuba that you withdrew from the Communist Party ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3473 
Mr. ODETS. A short time after.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did this experience have any motivating effect upon your decision, to either stay in or get out of the Communist Pal ty?
Mr. ODETS. I would say it had considerable effect on my decision. I must admit frankly I resented the professionalism. I thought, let me say it this way, in a certain moral and idealistic level, and I resented the professionalism of the cut and dried way in which this was done. I simply said this is not for me, I am not a professional businessman, my business is writing plays and I better get out, of this. I don't want to le used. And if this is an example, the expedition was largely responsible for me leaving the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. But that article was written before you left the Communist Party ?
Mr. OD.Trs. I guess so.
Mr. TA.ENNER. When did you return from Cuba
Mr. OET'r. I guess this all happened in June of 1935-June or maybe eai ly July.
Mr. T.A EXNNER. Doe- that aid you in any way in stating just what month it was that you left the Comiuinist Party'
Mr. ODET-. Well, I will say again to the best of my knowledge it would be in the latter half of 1.:95, the year 1935.
Mr. TA.VEiXNNER. Did you advise anyone in writing or verbally of your intention to withdraw from the party?
Mr. ODETS. I must have, but I don't remember it.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will stand in recess until half-past two. (Whereupon, at 12:20 p. m., the hearing was recessed until 2: 30 p. m. the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (The subcommittee reconvened at 3:10 p. m., with Representatives John S. Wood, chairman, and James B. Frazier, Jr., being present.)
Mr. WOOD. Come to order, please. Are you ready to proceed?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. CHaRm.AN. I would like at this point to have made a part of the record information contained in the files, that is, in the files of the committee, regarding several of those who participated as members of the American Commission To Investigate Labor and Social Conditions in Cuba. Jose Santiago, as shown by the committee files, was a candidate for the State assembly for the Seventeenth District of New York County on the Communist Party ticket, according to the Daily Worker of November 2, 1936, at page 5. Frank Griffin was a candidate for district attorney, Kings County, on the Communist Party ticket, according to the Daily Worker of October 19, 1935, at page 5. Celeste Strack was a candidate on the Communist Party ticket for nomination to the office of Representative to Congress from the Thirteenth Congressional District for Los Angeles County, in 1940.
Mr. Odets, in your earlier testimony before the committee, you referred to the manner in which your plays had been received by the Communist Party in the nature of the criticism which you said your 3474 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY plays received. I recall that you stated that your play, Waiting for Lefty, was referred to as a Trotskyite production, and that that was one of the reasons that impelled you to fall out with the Communist Party. You have stated today in your testimony that the criticisms that your productions received from the Communist press were instrumental in your taking the stand, and finally determining that you would break with the Communist Party. In our examination of the Communist press, we have been unable to find any statement that your play, Waiting for Lefty, was ever referred to by way of criticsm as a Trotskyite play. You stated that you thought you had a clipping that would so indicate.
Mr. ODETS. Yes, Mr. Tavenner. When I left Washington the last time I was here I went through my press clipping books and found a number-in fact, I found for every play that I produced very bad critical reception from the left. So, as of two or three nights ago, I copied some of these out in my own handwriting, on a pad, and brought them along. I found that the phrase "Trotskyite tendencies" had been marked down as left tendencies, that I had better be careful of left tendencies, which in those days meant that one had better be careful not to be a Trotskyite.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it was your interpretation that the criticism meant Trotskyite although there was no actual reference to Trotskyite?
Mr. ODETS. There was a rather amusing detail. One of the papers was Yiddish, from a paper called the Daily Freiheit, which was or is, I don't know whether the paper is still in existence, which is the Yiddish Daily Worker. My memory would be in that, in the translation of that, the actual phrase Trotskyite was used.
Mr. TAVENNEER. You spoke of the severity of the criticisms. The criticisms that you referred to were criticisms of a technical character regarding your plays, were they not, as distinguished from the criticism of your ability and your skill in portraying the characters?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I would like to ask this, if I may: I would like to read you a few of them, and put a few of them in the record by reading them, and then let you make your own judgment of those. I think that they are generally all around very bad notices.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say generally bad. Was there a period of time in which the Communist press seemed to change its attitude regarding your plays?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I can only say that from the very first play, from Waiting for Lefty, on until my plays of a year ago, the criticisms were sometimes good and sometimes bad, shockingly bad. I mean, I dislike being called a hack writer, but my last play I was called a hack writer in the Daily Worker. I don't know how you would categorize this sort of criticism but I call it very severe and very shocking.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of the criticism, do you know?
Mr. ODETs. The purpose, I would think, would be to say "This man has gone off the track and while he has talent and we mourn his loss," so to speak, "we wish we could get him back."
Mr. TAVENNER. Did it also take on the character of a challenge to you to produce more plays depicting the strike episode as in your play "Waiting for Lefty." COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3475 
Mr. ODETS. That was in the beginning it was suggested to me in casual meetings, nothing formal. It was suggested that I produce or write another strike play.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who suggested that?
Mr. ODETS. Well, the suggestion was so general among the Communist friends that I had that I couldn't really localize it to one person.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did that go beyond the cell of the Communist Party of which you were a member?
Mr. ODETS. I should think that I might meet people in the theater and they would say "When are you going to write another play like Waiting for Lefty. We need more strike plays, more plays that stand up in terms of those subjects." But as I say, the matter was so general that I would find difficulty in localizing it. However, in the reviews, what they were griping about I think might become more evident if I were permitted to read you a few of them. They are just a matter of a few lines each.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us come to that in a few minutes. Before coming to that, I would like to make a few more general inquiries. Did you have the feeling, or gain the impression, that the type of criticism which your plays received through the Communist press constituted an effort on the part of the Communist Party to direct you in your course of writing, or to influence you in your course of writing, that is, as to what you should write about and how you should treat your subjects and what kind of a social message you should carry, particularly.
Mr. ODETS. I would say that some of the criticisms were open to that interpretation. But most of them took me to task for what they called my defections. It would be expressed that way. "It is a pity that this man is wasting his time about this trifling subject matter when he could be writing, let us say, about the American workers, when he could be writing about the war in Spain. Why is he writing about a dentist in an office"?
Mr. TAVENNER. When you speak of a dentist in an office, you are speaking of your later production ofMr. ODETS. A Rocket to the Moon.
Mr. TAVENNER. A Rocket to the Moon. That was inMr. ODETS. Two or three years after.
Mr. TAVENNER. 1939. Now, coming back to the time when you were in the party, because you were in the party when you wrote Waiting for Lefty, were you not?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you in the party at the time you wrote the earlier production Awake and Sing?
Mr. ODETS. No, I was not, even though it was produced at the time I was in the party. It was written maybe a year and a half before.
Mr. TAVENNER. Which was produced first?
Mr. ODETS. Well, it twists a little bit. Awake and Sing was written and no one wanted to do it. Then I wrote Waiting for Lefty, which was very successful. It was produced. And then other people wanted to do Awake and Sing. So Awake and Sing was produced second.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period of your membership in the Communist Party did you meet and associate with functionaries of the Communist Party who were interested particularly in the cultural activities of the party, other than members of your own cell? 3476 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY
Mr. ODETS. Well, the few people that I did meet were people on the, cultural front, as I have said before, like V. J. Jerome, a few people like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, who, specifically?
Mr. ODETS. Well, there was Mr. Jerome. I might meet occasionally a drama critic of the Daily Worker.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was that?
Mr. ODETS. A man named Nathaniel Buclhwald. He wrote, I must say, really scurrilous reviews of my plays. I don't know why.
Mr. TAVENNER. Any others?
Mr. ODIETS. I undoubtedly met at that time an editor or two of the New Masses, Joe North.
Mr. TAN ENNER. Michael Blankfort was one of the reviewers, I believe, at that particular time, of the New Masses, and I believe he was also with the Daily Worker part time. Were you acquainted with Michael Blankfort
Mr. ODE'rs. I knew him vaguely. But I didn't like him. That is because he was a budding playwright, too, I think. He wrote scurrilonsly of my plays.
Mr. TA\%ENNIR. Well, lie placed you highly, too, didn't lie?
Mr. ODETS. Well, when he had to lie did. But when he could get away from it. lie didn't. As I said before, there was not always unanimity of opinion, so that a play of mine might be reviewed very badly and then someone else on the left would say "Just a minute, this play is much better than you put in New Masses, so you must let me write a second article."
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you assign any reason for that change of attitude ?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir. I am sure they wanted to keep me there. They would have liked to have had me write what they would call. with quotes around the word, "progressive plays." They would like me to write plays on what themes they would think would be burning issues of the day. I am sure, for instance, the Communist Party thought that the war in Spain was a burning issue of the day. I think a great number of liberals did, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. And they attempted to direct you in that course of writing ?
Mr. ODETS. In the sense, sir, of saying, "This man is wasting his time. He is stupid, he has too much talent. He is wasting his time writing about ordinary, middle-class life when he could be writing a glorious play about the war in Spain." It was in that sense that they would try to influence one, chiefly in that sense.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you follow the suggestion which you received by way of criticism through the Communist press, and other ways?
Mr. ODETS. I am afraid I never did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why?
Mr. ODETS. I didn't believe it. I didn't respect any person or any party or any group of people who would say to a young creative writer "Go outside of your experience and write outside of your experience a play." I knew that as fumbling as my beginnings were, and they certainly were, that I could only write out of my own experience, out of my own incentive. I couldn't be given a theme and handle it. It was COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3477 not my business. It meant to me, if I may say it this way, a loss of integrity. And so I persisted in going along on my own line and saying and writing what did come out of my true center. And whenever this happened, I got tius violent opposition in that press and I became further disgusted and estranged from them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then that was an effort on the part of the Communist Party to dictate to you what you should write about and how you should treat your subject?
Mr. ODETS. I would say so.
Mr. TAVEXXER. And, if I understand you correctly, you rebelled against that type of Communist Party discipline.
Mr. ODETS. I did. I did except that they had no ties on me so that I could rebel from the ties. By then I had, so to speak, loosened these ties, and I had no connection with them. So one read what they said as one read other criticisms, as you read the review in the New York Times or the morning Herald Tribune. If one could learn something from it, that was fine. If you couldn't learn something from it, there was nothing there for you. Since I had made up my mind there was nothing I could learn from the left cultural fronts I didn't pay much attention to it. I was much more apt to be interested in what a critic like Stark Young would say in the New Republic or Brooks Atkinson in the New York Times.
Mr. TAVENNER. If I understand you correctly, the Communist Party had its own methods of thought control in dealing with the writers who were members of the Communist Party.
Mr. ODETS. You may say so, sir. They tried that, but they drove all of the good writers away. They drove every first-grade writer away. This is what finally happened, this was finally the result. So far as I know offhand they don't have a first-grade writer connected with them, and they haven't for years, because of these tactics.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now let us return at this point to the criticisms of your plays because it is rather difficult to follow those criticisms. At times the reviewers praised your works very highly. At other times they criticized, usually in matters of form, according to my study of them. But let us have the instances in which you state that there was a criticism of a severe type.
Mr. ODETS. Well, here is one-may I go ahead?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. ODETS. Here is one from the Daily Worker review of the Waiting for Lefty production in February of 1935, by Nathaniel Buchwald: The very gush of his dramatic say has resulted in a woeful looseness of play structure and its strident overtones all but vitiate his message * * * exhortations which now and then deteriorate into mere sloganism or rhetoric * * * though each episode is eloquent in itself, all of them put together fail to make a play. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the reviewer ?
Mr. ODETS. That was Nathaniel Buchwald. That was the original production of Waiting for Lefty. He said some other good things. He said I had talent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. and he says in that very review of-what was the date that you gave ?
Mr. ODETS. All I have is February 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. February 3?
Mr. ODETS. I just have February 1935. 3478 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. At page 3, did you say?
Mr. ODETS. I didn't mention the pages.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, at page 5, February 20, 1935-well, at any rate, that is February of 1935. When was the play produced ?
Mr. ODETS. I would think that this was a review of the first production of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. And when was the first production ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I would say from this date it was some time early in February of 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, the same reviewer, in the issue of January 12, 1935, which is some time earlier than the one you referred to, had this to say: Propelled by his burning revolutionary fervor, and by an essentially clear guiding idea, this young playwright swept the audience off its feet by the sheer power and sincerity of dramatic utterance which was amplified and given vibrant resonance by the magnificent performance of the Group Theater players. In the issue of January 5, 1935, the same reviewer, that is Nathaniel Buchwald, does criticize certain technical matters which he set forth, but he also says this. He concedes that Odets will learn and that he is splendidly equipped for a young revolutionary dramatist, and that the play isA high watermark of revolutionary drama and probably the most effective agitprop play written in this country thus far. Now, that is a very high commendation, is it not, of your work ?
Mr. ODETS. I think so; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Particularly from the Communist standpoint. Now, what is meant by agit-prop play, when he says it is a most effective agit-prop play ?
Mr. ODETS. Agit-prop is short for the phrase agitational propaganda. (Representative John S. Wood left the room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Though he criticized certain technical aspects of your plays, would you not say that at that time, in January of 1935, that the Commumst Party was very enhtusiastic about Waiting for Lefty?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; I remember telling you distinctly in our last meeting that they were delighted with the play. I was very clear to make the points that they thought it was a wonderful play. If I had to hazard a guess about what would happen, it would be that a reviewer would set down what he thought about the play, and then someone else in the Communist Party would say, "Look, don't you be so harsh with him. You better write another review and take that back. We can't afford to lose that fellow." This would be my idea.
Mr. TAVENNER. This one of January 5, 1935, was the first?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I have one here of February 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. January 12 is earlier.
Mr. ODETS. Fortunately all of the others I have dated exactly on the exact date. (Representative John S. Wood reentered the room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I find the New Masses review in its issue of January 29, 1935, in which Joshua Kunitz was reviewer, also published a review of your work. Are you acquainted with Joshua Kunitz?
Mr. ODETS. I know the name. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3479 
Mr. TAVENNER. It seems that I am mistaken in saying in that Joshua Kumtz was the reviewer on the occasion I mentioned. It was Stanley Burnshaw. Were you acquainted with Stanley Burnshaw?
Mr. ODETS. I know that name.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is that?
Mr. ODETS. I say I know that name.
Mr. TAVENNER.'Mr. Burnshaw had this to say: On January 5, when the curtain ran down on the first performance of Clifford Odets' Waiting for Lefty the audience cheered, whistled, and screamed with applause. In the course of his review, he stated that "Some persons referred to the play as a disjointed, structurally arbitrary piece of playwright." In fact, that is about what John Howard Lawson had said about it; is that correct?
Mr. ODETS. You have very good notes there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Isn't that right?
Mr. ODETS. I remember Jack Lawson. I don't remember what he said.
Mr. TAVENNER. It says: Yet a second seeing by the New Masses reviewer provides sufficient perspective for discerning in the juxtaposition of scenes a clear logic, binding them into a solid dramatic role. The New Masses reviewer said there were some weak scenes in the play, but that the terrific emotional drive of the play as a unit is more than the total effectiveness of the eight scenes. So that was a commendation by the New Masses. Now, John Howard Lawson, according to our study, was concerned in his criticism with the technique, as he referred to it, but he does not question your talent about which he says it is of "outstanding significance, his skill, vitality, and honesty rarely found in the current theater." Lawson states that while Lefty represents a tremendous advance over Awake and Sing, nevertheless there are structural flaws, which he referred to. And he predicts for you a great future. Well, that certainly is not a severe criticism of your work from the standpoint of the Communist Party. If up to this point there had been criticism, it has been with regard to what the reviewers referred to as structural flaws, or errors in technique.
Mr. ODETS. Well, may I say a few words about that?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. ODETS. They may have interest. A Marxist believes that if you would straighten out your ideology in terms of Marxist orientation, that when you do that, you will no longer have structural flaws. So to say that something has structural flaws means that this young writer must attend more Marxian ideology and Marxian study. I happen to know from reading a book or two that John Howard Lawson very thoroughly believes that. I do not. I do not think that if you spoil your inner life by Marxian ideology that you will then have no structural difficulties in writing a play. The essence of John Howard Lawson's meaning would be that. In fact, lie has written two whole books about it. I have respect in many areas for Jack Lawson as, for instance, a once very, very gifted playwright, but the part that I am discussing is, I think, arrant nonsense. Also, I may say something else. What was happening here was that they had a hot potato in their hands and one fellow would say "This 3480 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY has great value," another fellow would say, "No, he is not very good." They would keep contradicting each other, and I suppose somewhere they made a rule and said "Now, look, let's don't drive these people away. Now let's send a more important man to review the play." So frequently you have a play reviewed two or three times. The same play would be reviewed two or three times, and I am guessing on the basis of trying to tie the writer closer. "Don't chase him away, don't say harsh things. Ameliorate these statements by a second review." This is what would happen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I think I should read the criticism or part of the review made by Michael Blankfort, which appeared in New Masses on March 5, 1935, when be reviewed Awake and Sing. Now, he took the position that Awake and Sing was not as great a work as Waiting for Lefty. But lie said this: Awake and Sing was worth seeing because Odets is one of the new revolution- ary voices, because he has something invigorating to say, because he says it in a fresh way. He also criticizes one of the play's characters for realizing his mission out of mysticism, rather than out of an understanding of social forces as it should be in a revolutionary play. Blankfort concedes that Mr. Odets was growing into a revolutionary understanding of those matters. Now, what was your interpre9 tation of that criticism
Mr. ODETS. Well, sir, you are doinp what I have done. If I may say so, you are taking out of his review of March 5, 1935, certain praise. Well, what I have taken out is certain dispraise, and what I had him saying here isThe types, delete, are no more than characters in a play, well documented puppets, delete, nothing advances through them and they do not crow. Reminds me of etchings you can catch with the first superficial glance. If the characters in Awake and Sing aren't burlesqued, the credit must go to the director. Too often for the help of a play, a situation is created out of nothing just to get across a wisecrack or a lift. This was the most serious play I had written. This had been received by the leading newspapers of New York as a minor master- piece. Here were my friends on the left publishing these sort of thing s .
Mr. TAvENNER. And he followed it by stating that if the audience was staying for a laugh it would miss the real revolutionary message in the play; didn't he
Mr. ODETS. Something like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. So your position is that these various items of criticism and praise were designed to pressure you as a member of the party into writing more in line with the party dictates and the party policy, is that what I am to understand ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, I would say that they would want me to write more from their world point of view.
Mr. TA.VEINNER. Well, didn't you write later on Communist themes ?
Mr. ODETS. On Communist themes?
Mr. TAVENNER. Or Communist experiences?
Mr. ODETS. I have said before, Mr. Tavenner, and would like to say again, that I have always tried to write not out of any themes to one side of myself, but to themes that were central and germane to my own life. I do remember stating at our last meeting as an ex COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3481 ample that if I were moved by certain situations of poverty that this would be because my mother 'worked in a stocking factory in Philadelphia at the age of 11 and died a broken woman and an old woman at the age of 48, and when I wrote, sir, it was out of central, personal things. I did not learn my hatred of poverty, sir, out of communism.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever write a play which was based on your experience in the Communist Party ?
Mr. ODETS. No, I never did. I have never written a Communist play because I want to write plays and always to write plays for the largest American audiences that I can reach. I want to write American plays. I want to talk to average Americans. I don't want to talk to a special minority group. I believe that the Communists have a very special and narrow view of American life. That is not my view. There is another reason that I broke with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke a moment ago of the Communist Party taking one view of your works on one occasion and then a different view later. I am referring particularly in that respect to your play Paradise Lost. You find in the Daily Worker of December 13, 1935, that Michael Blankfort praised Paradise Lost as being a better play than Awake and Sing in many respects. And Robert Forsythe, in New Masses, issue of December 24, 1935, praised Paradise Lost as much better than both Awake and Sing and Waiting for Lefty. Then we find the Daily Worker of February 7, 1936, just several months later, the reviewer, Jay Gerlando, took the contrary position and criticized your play. And I think it is important to bring out to your attention here and ask for your comment regarding the type of criticism at this time. He took the position, this reviewer took the position, that the characters in Paradise Lost grow out of the theater more than out of real life, and be says, "And the Marxists have an advantage in making real characters because they understand the forces that shape human beings." Have you any comment to make on that change in attitude, and the reference to the Marxists?
Mr. ODETS. I believe it is what I said before. One reviewer would go to see a play. He might write a favorable review and then someone else in the Communist Party would say, "That isn't true, that play is not so good. This play demonstrates dangerous tendencies and we must send somebody to review the play and point out the dangerous tendencies to our readers." Or it might go the other way around. The first review was bad and they said, "Wait a minute. Don't drive this young playwright away. Let us send a second reviewer." You mentioned Paradise Lost, you read a favorable review or two, and then before you read a favorable review of Burnshaw correcting some other reviewer of Awake and Sing. I happen to have here a New Masses review of Burnshaw of Paradise Lost which is quite bad.
Mr. TAVENNER. We will come to that in a moment, if you will let me complete my talk here. Now, in addition to that criticism on February 7, we find that 4 days later in New Masses that the reviewer Stanley Burnshaw, which'is probably the thing that you are referring to, in commenting on Paradise Lost said: 2154G-52-pt. 8- 3482 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY It is the lack of Marxism which has deprived the play of its fundamental social truth. And then he also stated: It is regrettable to see a left writer proceeding on an utterly false premise, portray as doomed objects of decay that very middle class which will be enlisted as a vigorous ally in the growing people's front against fascism and war. Now, how do you explain the difference in the reviews from December of 1935, from both the Daily Worker and the New Masses, and the reviewers from both Daily Worker and the New Masses in February of 1936?
Mr. ODETS. I can explain it only in that way, that there seems to have been, when a playwright or valuable writer presents a new work, there would be a review and then there would seem to be conferences about the review and then they would send out another reviewer to make a reevaluation if they thought that was necessary. This, of course, was with the obvious intention of binding the writer to the Communist Party, and the Marxist world point of view. So that actually here again is Burnshaw recommending that if I were a better Marxist I would be a better playwright and a better constructor of plays. There is also a horrifying review by James Farrell, in a Communist publication, of Paradise Lost. He says it is a burlesque of my previous work. "The lines are gags. I don't understand how he could have written a play so consistently, so ferociously bad. It is mistitled. It should be known as Lay Down and Die." This is from Partisan Review and Anvil, which was another magazine like the New Masses in those days.
Mr. TAvENNER. What was the date?
Mr. ODETS. The date was February 1936. M1. TAVENNER. And in all of these publications the Communist Party seemed to have changed its line in its approach to your work between December 1935 and February 1936.
Mr. ODETS. There they are, there is one contradicting the other.
Mr. TAVxNNER.. But they are consistent as to the time of contradiction.
Mr. OETrs. There were contradictions in this one. Mike Gold would write a contradiction of this one, so you might end up with five or six reviews of two plays. You have mentioned two and I have mentioned two, and that makes four. I vaguely remember Mike Gold answering James Farrell and saying he was much too harsh, that it was a beautiful play. Now we have five reviews of the play. It was a very hectic and tumultuous tune. However, I believe that the intention is clear through all of these, "Let us not chase this young writer away. Let us reconsider. Let us make him reconsider. If he is not Marxist enough, let us try to teach him. Let us try to show him." I would think such intention was clear through all of these views. Some of these people are rascals, but on the other hand some of them were people of high seriousness and integrity in their feelings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Herbert Kline?
Mr. ODETS. Yes. I met him. I met him as an editor of a magazine called New Theater. I knew him.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you went to Hollywood, did you have occasion to contact Herbert Kline there? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3483 
Mr. ODETS. I did not, but I did meet him once or twice casually in restaurants. 
Mr. TAVENNER. He was a witness before the committee in separate hearings of last year, but refused to testify. Did you know him to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ODETS. No, I did not.
Mr. TAVENNER. The New Theater magazine, of which you say he was the editor, was the official publication of the New Theater League, was it not ?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know about that. I am willing to say it is, if you have notes about it. I didn't know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I show you the issue of February 1935. Will you examine it, please, and state what appears from pages 13 to 20? What is it, please?
Mr. ODETS. What is the question?
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you find on pages 13 to 20 ?
Mr. ODETS. It does say that it is an organ of what you said, the organ of the New Theater League, National Film and Photo Workers League. and this edition prints Waiting for Lefty in its entirety.
Mr. TAVENNER. From pages 13 to 20. This play was based on a taxicab strike in New York City in February 1934, was it not?
Mr. ODETS. That is what they say. But it is just something I kind of made up.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wasn't it based on that strike?
Mr. ODETS. I didn't know anything about a taxicab strike. I had a few boyhood friends who were cab drivers. I knew their lingo, I knew their talk. I have never been near a strike in my life.
Mr. TAVENNER. There was a taxicab strike in February 1934 which you were familiar with, wasn't there?
Mr. ODETS. No; I learned later there was such a strike.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were the pictures appearing in that article on pages 14, 17, 18, and 20 from the first production of the play ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did John Garfield appear in the play?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; he did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with John Garfield at that time?
Mr. ODETS. Oh, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever know John Garfield to be a member of the Communist Party
Mr. ODETS. No, sir; I never knew.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you received an award from the New Theater League for the production of Waiting for Lefty; did you not?
Mr. ODETS. After having been produced, written and produced, I think I told you the last time they came to me and said, "We have had a one-act play contest and no good material has shown up. Do you mind if we give you the prize?" I said "No; I don't mind."
Mr. TAVENNER. According to your statement you were told that yours was the only play submitted?
Mr. ODETS. Something like that. Nothing showed of any merit or value, and would I take the prize.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the February 2, 1939, issue of the Daily Worker, it is stated, "In 1935 the New Theater League first attracted wide 3484 COMMUNISMi IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY attention when Waiting for Lefty, by Clifford Odets, who had been known as a playwright before, was chosen as the best among hundreds of scripts submitted."
Mr. ODETS. That made a good story, I would say. But it was not the truth.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was not true. Returning to the magazine New Theater, according to a note by the author appearing at the end of the script of Waiting for Lefty, no production of the play could be presented without your permission. Is that correct?
Mr. ODETS. That was my hope.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what copyright protection did you have when you produced the play?
Mr. ODETS. I will guess, in the line of normal procedure, I later took a copyright out on the play. I didn't know about copyrights when the play was written. But I would doubt that in my entire life I earned $1,000 out of that play. People just did it. It was kind of pitblic property. That play has gone to this day. As a matter of fact, one of the few times permission was asked for that play was from the United States Army. They did it in Japan just after the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Daily Worker of January 23, 1948, Waiting for Lefty was produced under the auspices of the Communist Party of New Jersey, at a mass demonstration on January 25, 1948. Did you grant permission to the Communist Party of New Jersey to produce your play?
Mr. ODETS. I haven't granted permission for that play, to my knowledge, I would guess, for 8 or 10 years. The play is now handled by my agent, Brandt and Brandt, in New York City, and is rather infrequently done by colleges. MI. TAi ENNER. Well, were you acquainted with the fact that the play was being produced or would be produced by the Communist Party of New Jersey in 1948?
Mr. ODETs. No, I don't know about that. No. As a matter of fact, the last year I was in California, some people came from New York and told me they saw a very good production of Waiting for Lefty in New York City. I would guess that was around this time. It was somewhere down on Second Avenue that ran for a long time. I knew nothing about that, either.
Mr. TAVENNER. On April 30, 1948, the play was presented by the New Theater, according to the Daily Worker of April 30, 1948. Did you grant permission for its production by the Newv Theater?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have not granted permission for the production of that play for, I would guess easily 8 or 10 years, with the one exception that I told you about.
Mr. ODETS. Well, how did they obtain authority to reproduce this play if you weren't asked about it?
Mr. ODETS. Waiting for Lefty has been done all over the world. To make an example it has been done in the British Isles in 17 different dialects and I have not received 5 cents of royalties. I don't know, I would say that the play existed as a kind of public service.
Mr. T.VENNER. Then the Communist Party has made the use of the play. regardless of the amount of criticism that it may have received by technical reviewing writers, at the time it was produced. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3485 
Mr. ODETS. They have used the play a great deal. I have said here several times that they thought it was a wonderful play to have, a wonderful play to use. I would not like you to misconstrue anything I have said as saying that the Communist Party didn't think the play was not a very fine play, particularly to produce. It was at one time a kind of light machinegun that you wheeled in to use whenever there was any kind of strike trouble.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the March 16, 1937, issue of the Daily Worker, the Chicago Repertory Group produced Waiting for Lefty for the reason assigned that it hits the nail on the head so perfectly. It deals with the problem of taxicab drivers to form their own union and to strike for better living conditions as stated. With the taxicab strike on Chicago's own doorstep, the Chicago Repertory Group, it was said, was able to respond perfectly at the psychological moment. So again, the play was used in special instances, apparently, by the Communist Party. Do you know of any other instances?
Mr. ODETS. I don't offhand, no; I don't know of any instances, but I should think there were dozens and dozens of them. I mean, I know that the play has been translated into almost every language in the world, and I know that that play must have played in over 200 different American cities in its 15 or 17 years of existence.
Mr. TAVENNER. This would all seem to confirm your statement that the criticism made of your play was done for the purpose of influencing you in your future writings because the Communist Party has not only praised, from time to time, the work, but has actually used it in special instances on many occasions for its own propaganda purposes.
Mr. ODETS. That is about the only one of my plays that they have done that with.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Mr. Odets, there is considerable information in the files of the committee that reflects your interest in, your support of, or your affiliation with a number of organizations of a communistic nature, usually referred to as Communist-front organizations. Inasmuch as all of this so-called activity occurred after you say you left the Communist Party, the committee would like to know how you were approached for support of these different groups, what induced you to lend your name, if you did do so, and any other explanation that you care to offer. The first matter that I desire to ask you about, you were a member of the party at the time that it first arose, or your alleged affiliation with it arose. Were you affiliated with an organization known as the International Union of Revolutionary Writers?
Mr. ODETS. I can only say that the name is familiar. Was that an American organization or was that an organization of-Mr. TAVENNER. That was a Soviet organization.
Mr. ODETS. Yes, that was an organization to which almost every important writer in the world belonged to, back in 1934, 1935, and 1936.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any correspondence with the organization?
Mr. ODETS. What they did was send-they had a monthly or every other month-some magazine, the name of which I don't remember, which they sent free, and they sent literature. They sent pamphlets 3486 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY and brochures on what was happening in the theater and what was happening in literature all over Europe.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the name International Literature the name of the publication that you said you were unable to recall?
Mr. ODETS. I think so. I think it was printed around newspaper style.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a newspaper copy of several pages from the September 1935 issue of International Literature. You will note that this is the official organ of the International Union of Revolutionary Writers. On page 3 appears a letter from you. Do you recall the occasion?
Mr. ODETS. No. I have seen this letter when I was here last.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time you were here, we did not have available sufficient identification of that letter. The letter is not dated, as you see, but it was issued in the September-it does appear in the September 1935 issue of that.
Mr. ODETS. There is no doubt I wrote this letter, I recognize the style.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to read to you the first paragraph of your letter: Many thanks for your comradely letter from the Soviet Union. It gave me a great thrill to have your letter. In fact, I walked around the city showing it to friends all day, and took it backstage to our working actor comrades of the Group Theater and read it to the group in the dressing room Your letter indicates that you were very much impressed with receiving a letter from the International Literature.
Mr. ODETS. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were a member of the Communist Party at that time, were you not ?
Mr. ODETS. I would say roughly or approximately 1935, late in 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any other connection or association with the International Union of Revolutionary Writers?
Mr. ODETS. I would say, to the best of my memory, that if I wrote one or two letters like that in my lifetime it would be a great deal, and the rest of my connection would be to receive their literature.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of an article that appeared in the January 18, 1935, issue of the Daily Worker. This article is a call for a Congress of American Revolutionary Writers, on May 1. I want to read several paragraphs from the article. The opening paragraph is: The capitalist system crumbles so rapidly before our eyes that whereas 10 years ago scarcely more than a handful of writers were sufficiently farsighted and courageous to take a stand for proletarian revolution, today hundreds of poets, novelists, dramatists, critics, short-story writers, and journalists recognize the necessity of personally helping to accelerate the destruction of capitalism and the establishment of a workers' government. Further along in the article we find the following: We propose, therefore, that a congress of American Revolutionary Writers be held in New York City on May 1, 1935, that to this congress shall be invited all writers who have achieved some standing in their respective fields, who have clearly indicated their sympathy to the revolutionary cause, who do not need to be convinced of the decay of capitalism, of the inevitability of the revolu- tion. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3487 And further along in the article we find the following: We believe such a congress should create the League of American Writers, affiliated with the International Union of Revolutionary Writers. The program of the League of American Writers would be evolved at the congress, basing itself on the following: Fight against imperialist war and fascism, defend the Soviet Union against capitalist aggression, for the development and strengthening of the revolutionary labor movement, and so forth The call was signed by such well known and outstanding Communists as Earl Browder, Theodore Dreiser, Michael Gold, Clarence Hathawa., Herb Kline, John Howard Lawson, Lewis Lozowick, Joseph North, M. J. Olgin, Isidor Schneider, Alexander Trachtenberg, Ella Winter, and Richard White. The congress N as held in New York City on April 27, 1935, and the League of American Writers was formed. Did you attend or participate in this congress?
Mr. ODETS. I have no memory of that, but in that time I would have been glad to attend such a congress. I have no memory, particularly, of attending a congress or a meeting. But I would have been glad to have been there, then, in 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, the purpose as expressed in that met with your approval at that time?
Mr. ODErs. Well, what is there is very highfalutin', very high-flown. I think when I hear it and follow it with my eye as you are reading, it is silly, foolish. But at that time one believed that perhaps all of our problems could be worked out by some kind of socialism, and I believed that then.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the photostatic copy in evidence and ask that it be marked "Odets Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. WOOD. It shall be admitted. (Photostat referred to was marked for identification "Odets Exhibit No. 1" and filed for the record.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the official proceedings of that meeting as published by the International Publishers. Will you look at page 188 and state whether your name appears as one of those selected to the National Council of the League of American Writers?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; I see my name there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at that time a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know. I would just offhand guess so, I should say so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you turn now to the last page of the book. Do you not find that the official report closes with this language: When the applause died down, James Farrell arose and suggested that the congress conclude its final session by singing the Internationale. This was done. Do you recall that?
Mr. ODETS. No; I don't remember being at such a meeting. But in those days, these kind of things could happen very easily.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you affiliated with the League of American Writers ?
Mr. ODETS. My memory would be, in any official capacity, for some very short time. It might have been a year. I told you that I began to have quarrels with them in public on their platforms at their meetings. I attended a number of meetings of the League of American 'writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean you had quarrels? 3488 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. I had quarrels with their points of views, because if someone got up and made a critical evaluation-for instance John Howard Lawson got up and made a critical evaluation of the Broadway Theater season, and I disagreed with him. I would ask for the floor and get up on the platform and have a fight with him about it in public. As I said, the last time I was there, this kind of made me personna non grata to these circles, and resulted, finally, in a real cooling off of any kind of relationship between myself and most of these people. Actually, seeing these names, many of these people have become since violent anti-Communist, and are totally adamant to the Communist Party of America.
Mr. TAVEXNER. At the present time ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, dozens and dozens of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, how long did you remain connected with the organization, whether in an official capacity or otherwise?
Mr. ODETS. I could only state approximately and take a rough guess on it. It might be for a year or two, or it might be for 3 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of page 25 of the May 4, 1937, issue of New Masses. This is the manifesto and call to the second congress of the League of American Writers. Will you examine the exhibit and state whether your name appears among those signing the call?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, I see my name here.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which you were solicited to sian the call for the meeting ?
Mr. ODETS. I don't remember, because these sort of things come to you through the mail for the most part. The letter would be a "former," a muneographed letter, and it would come through the mail, signed in mnimeographing by one, two, or three or four persons, and this happened so many times during the week that it is really difficult to remember who contieted anyone about these things. I stated before that right today I get 40 or 50 letters of this sort every week, every week.
Mr. TAVENNER. You must be on the list of all of them.
Mr. ODETS. I am on a lot of lists. I don't think I sign things as frequently as I did. I am a little more careful, a little more selective.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you sign that ?
Mr. ODETS. If my name is here, I would say I signed it, sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show Vou a photostatic copy of the letterhead of the fourth congress of the League of American Writers, held in 1941. Will you examine the exhibit and state whether your name appears on this letterhead ?
Mr ODETs. My name is here; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. That would indicate that you were then active in the organization as late as 1941.
Mr. ODETS. No; that would not indicate that I was active. It would indicate that my name was still on some executive list. In fact, I am surprised that this League of American Writers still exists in the year 1941. This is a lot of news to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend or participate in the congress for which that call was issued?
Mr. ODETS. Not to my memory. This may have been the last one, in which I broke up the meeting. I don't know. Manhattan Center? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3489 No; I did not attend this meeting because I have never been in Manhattan Center in my life.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me refresh your recollection about that. I show you a copy of New Masses, issue of June 17, 1941. On pages 10 and 11 are drawings of several people in attendance at the congress. Will you examine the exhibit and state whether you are depicted as in attendance ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, I am depicted.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that refresh your recollection?
Mr. ODETS. Well, if my drawing is there I must have been there, and that must have been the meeting that I broke up.
Mr. TAVENER. Do you know the present status of the League of American Writers ?
Mr. ODETS. I was just supposing it is totally defunct.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was the last of its meetings the one just referred to. Do you know that the League of American Writers ceased to exist shortly after the attack on Russia by Germany ? In other words, it was an imperialist war on June 21, but on June 22 it was the people's war, if you recall. Do you recall that sudden switch in the Communist Party line when the White House was being picketed one day, and the President called a warmonger, and the next day he was a great leader of the freedom-loving nations.
Mr. ODETS. I remember that. I didn't remember but you say the league broke up on this issue, or something. I didn't remember that until you told me the last time.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking, do you know whether or not it did break up almost as quickly as the Communist Party changed its line?
Mr. ODETS. No; you gave me that information the last time I was here. That was all I knew about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then the League of American Writers set up a committee known as the Exiled Writers' Committee. I believe the Hollywood counterpart was called the Hollywood Committee for Writers in Exile. Were you affiliated with either of those groups while in Hollywood or in New York?
Mr. ODETS. I must frankly say I have no memory of it.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will stand in recess until 10:30 in the morning. (Whereupon, at 4: 30 p. m., the committee was recessed to reconvene at 10: 30 a. m., Tuesday, May 20, 1952.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF THE HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 8 TUESDAY, MAY 20, 1952 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVrrIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to recess, at 11 a. m., in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, and Harold H. Velde. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; John W. Carrington, clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, research director; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will come to order. Let the record show that for the purpose of this hearing today I have set up a subcommittee composed of Mr. Walter, Mr. Velde, and Mr. Wood, who are all present. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner. TESTIMONY OF CLIFFORD ODETS, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, EUGENE GRESSMAN
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Odets, at the close of our session yesterday I was calling to your attention the committee records of various activities of yours in connection with Communist-front organizations in a period after you stated you withdrew from the Communist Party. I desire now to continue with that same line of questioning. In the October 5, 1937, issue of New Masses you are listed as a sponsor of a reception and dinner given Herman Reissig, executive secretary of the American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy. It will be recalled that Reissig made the trip to Cuba with you in 1935 as one of the members of your commission to investigate labor conditions in Cuba. At that time he was representing the American League Against War and Fascism. At this time, in 1937, we find him to be the executive secretary of the North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy. Will you state what the reason was for your sponsorship of this reception for Mr. Reissig? Was it due to personal friendship for Reissig or was it the result of your sympathy for the organization he represented?
Mr. ODETS. Mr. Tavenner, I have no memory of this, but looking at the advertisement I see this is for Spanish aid to Spanish children, 3491 3492 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY a reception dinner not only for the Reverend Reissig but also Mr. Leland Stowe, the distinguished war correspondent of the New York Herald Tribune. I think that under normal circumstances I well might have put my name on this as a sponsor, with no sense that the Reverend Reissig was or is a Communist. I don't know him very well. I doubt if I saw him now if I would recognize him. I have actually no recollection of this, but this would be my explanation of it.
Mr. TA LENNER. You are aware of the fact, are you not, that the Attorney General has classified both the American League Against War and Fascism and the North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy as Communist organizations? Mir. ODETS. Well, my judgment of that would be that if it were so classified it would be long after the fact. If that is 1937, I don't remember when itMr. TAVENNER. It is true that the citation as a Communist organization was not made until a date subsequent to that, but the citation means that the organization was a Communist organization from the date of its inception. In fact, both of these organizations were out of existence at the time that the Attorney General cited them.
Mr. ODETS. I frankly don't know about that.
Mr. TAVENNER. The November 1937 issue of Soviet Russia Today published facsimiles of signatures to greetings sent to the Soviet Union on the twentieth anniversary of the establishment of the Soviet Union. This is generally referred to as the Golden Book of American Friendship with the Soviet Union. Will you examine the exhibit and state whether or not your name appears in the second column?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir, it does.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which your signatme was obtained to that statement?
Mr. ODETS. Well, with no real memory of this document, I would say that someone sent me a telegram, or I might have received a cable from Europe, and I lent my signature to the document. It is obviously my signature. I have no real memory of it, but I must have received some communication and I answered. I did not at that time, I must say, and I would like to say generally-I had no sense of the Soviet Union as a country opposed to our interests; it never occurred to me to think of the Soviet Union that way. I thought of the Soviet Union then as a country of extraordinary theater, of extraordinary literary figures, and any greeting or relationship that I might in those days have made with that large country would be in relation to my particular field of theater, the theater, and theater literature. But I must point out that in those days not only myself but no one had a sense, or very few people had a sense, of the Soviet Union as a country opposed to our interests anyway. I think it was during that time that we began to recognize the Soviet Union, began to move into a kind of amnesty with that country, in terms of trade, for instance.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily Worker of April 6, 1937, at page 9, carries an article regarding the formation of a new film company called Frontier Films. According to this article some of the staff members were John Howard Lawson, Philip Stephenson, Albert Maltz, Elia Kazan, and Kyle Crichton. While members of the advisory board included Bruce Bliven, Josephine Herbst, Edwin Rolph, and Clifford Odets. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3493 Will you tell the committee how this organization was created, who fostered the idea, and, in general, the purposes of the group?
Mr. ODETS. My memory of that group was hazy until you reminded me of it at one of our last meetings, and what would have happened is that I was approached by an old friend of mine, Paul Strand, a very distinguished photographer, and I was approached and asked for money to help make a progressive film. I was indignant and said that I was no banker, that it was not money that I could furnish to a film-making outfit, but if they wanted my best advice in relation to photographing, directing, or writing for the film, I would be glad to help. This, of course, was on the basis that Paul Strand, who is in my opinion one of the two or three great photographers of the United States, came and said he was going to head the film.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, was that the manner in which consent was obtained to the use of your name as a member of the advisory board ?
Mr. ODETS. Actually I don't remember that I gave my name, but I said, "If you want me to help you on scripts and on the mechanical end of making a picture, I will help you. I can't help you in terms of money because I am not a banker."
Mr. TAVENxER. Did you serve on the advisory board ?
Mr. ODETS. This is my last knowledge of the entire matter. I am not familiar with what they made, if they did make a picture.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is this the first knowledge that you received that you were on the advisory board?
Mr. ODETS. My meeting with you 2 or 3 weeks ago was my first knowledge of that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the activities of John Howard Lawson, Albert Maltz, and others mentioned there in connection with the production of Frontier Films?
Mr. ODETS. I didn't know that they had any connection with it, and certainly never met them in any relationship to this film or this film company. I am quite certain of that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, how do you account for the fact that they carried you as a member of the advisory board, if you have no knowledge of it ?
Mr. ODETS. I was simply supposing that acting on my suggestion that I could help on the technical end of making a film, rather than the financial end, that they then used my name as part of an advisory council.
Mr. TAVENNER. You agree to that?
Mr. ODETS. I have no memory of that.
Mr. WOOD. May I ask at this point, Who did you have that conversation with at the time you were approached and told them you would be willing to help them?
Mr. Ourrs. My best memory would be that it was with Paul Strand, the photographer.
Mr. WooD. Did you talk to anybody else that you remember, about it?
Mr. ODETS. I am almost certain that I did not, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any other recollection of your connection with that organization?
Mr. ODETS. I am quite sure that that is where it ended. 3494 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Hollywood Now was the official organ of the Hollywood anti-Nazi League?
Mr. ODETS. Hollywood Now?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; it is a publication, Hollywood Now. In the issue of March 26, 1938, there is an article to the effect that 100 prominent liberals had petitioned the Home Minister of Japan asking the freedom of those Japanese impounded on political charges, since the beginning of the Japanese invasion of China. This petition was released by the International Labor Defense, and your name appears as one of the signers. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which your signature was obtained to this petition and the circumstances under which you permitted the International Labor Defense to release it, release the petition?
Mr. ODETS. Mr. Tavenner, I might gladly have given my name to this, but I have no memory of it whatsoever, no memory of it at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any connection that you had or any contact that you had with the International Labor Defense in regard to that matter?
Mr. ODETS. No, I certainly never in my life had any official connection or work to do with the ILD. If I did give my name to this, again it would have been a matter of something through the mail or perhaps a telegram, special delivery letter, but my memory of it is nonexistent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know at or about the time of the release of this petition that your name appeared on it?
Mr. ODETS. I ain sorry, I really have no memory of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of the letterhead of the Medical Bureau and North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy, dated July 6, 1938. Will you examine the exhibit and state whether your name appears as a member of the theater arts committee of the organization ?
Mr. OD.-S. Yes; I see my name here.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which your sponsorship of that organization was obtained?
Mr. ODETS. Again I must say that it was probably done in the usual way, by a letter or telegram, and I might well have given my name if it had to do with medical aid for the Spanish civil war. But by whom I was contacted or when, I have no memory of that. Those things, I must say, were usually done by the officials of the organization, so whoever the top sponsoring officials were, if a letter came it would be signed by one, two, three, or four names. Any judgment I would make would usually be on the basis of those names, that is, judgment as to whether or not I should sign it.
Mr. TAVEN4ER. I show you a photostatic copy of the letterhead of the American Relief Ship for Spain. Will you examine the exhibit and state whether your name appears as the sponsor? Air. ODETS. My name is certainly there, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee circumstances under which your sponsorship to that organization the was obtained?
Mr. ODETS. It could only be as outlined on the
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU will note that the letterlast one. signed by Anne DMr. ODETS. I have no idea who that is; not the isslightest Air. ODETS. I have no idea who that is; not the slightest iro idea. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3495 
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a letterhead of the American League for Peace and Democracy, dated April 6, 1939. Will you examine the exhibit, please, and state whether your name appears as a member of the Theater Arts Committee sponsoring the organization ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; it does.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us the circumstances under which your sponsorship of that organization was obtained ?
Mr. ODETs. I don't know. I don't know what it is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you recall being the sponsor?
Mr. ODETS. No, I am sorry I don't.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Counsel, are all of these organizations cited by the Attorney General to be Communist-front organizations?
Mr. TAVENNER. Either by the Attorney General or by this committee. In my preliminary statement to this line of questioning, I made a claim that it was the Communist-front organizations that we were intending to inquire about. I show you a circular reproduced and circulated by the Communist Party. It is a statement labeled "In Defense of the Bill of Rights." A most casual reading reveals it is a statement in defense of the Communist Party and known Communists. This statement was released on December 14, 1939. The name of Clifford Odets appears as one of the signers. Will you tell the committee who solicited your signature to this statement, and the circumstances?
Mr. ODETS. Again I regret to say that I have no memory of this. It seems to me to be some broad-front matter and I might well have signed it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated it was a broad-front matter. That article shows it is directly a Communist Party matter, doesn't it ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, it is headlined "In defense of the Bill of Rights," and I don't see that as strictly a Commun ist matter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then it follows with one paragraph regarding the Bill of Rights, and the rest of it is defense of the Communist Party. There is one paragraph, according to m v recollection of the document, which relates to the subject, and there are about three or four which relate to the defense of the Communist Party.
Mr. ODETS. My eye falls on a stateme nt here that "We are not Communists and we are not concerned at this moment with the merits or demerits of the doctrines advocated by the Communists."
Mr. VELjDE. Mr. Odets, do you bel eve now that the Communist Party has been interested in preserving our Bill of Rights and the Constitution ?
Mr. ODETS. I would think that now I he Communist Party was interested in preserving its existence.
Mr. VELDE. You still maintain that the Communist Party at the present time in the United States of America is interested in preserving our Constitution: is that your opinion?
Mr. ODETS. I would say its primisry function was to preserve its own existence, not the Constitution and not the Bill of Rights.
Mr. VELDE. Preserving the Communist Party's existence?
Mr. ODETS. Its existence. 
Mr. VELDE. And what do you deem as the program of the Communist Party in this country 3496 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ODETS. The program of theMr. VELDE. What it has been and what it is at the present time, in regard to our Constitution.
Mr. ODETs. My relationship with the Communist Party over the years was a very distant one. Anything I tell you would be my guess or my speculation. It would not be out of any.kind of sure knowledge.
Mr. VELDE. You still have an opinion, don't you?
Mr. ODETS. I have opinions, yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Will you state that opinion, please?
Mr. ODETS. What would you like me to express an opinion about exactly ?
Mr. VELDF. What your opinion is of the program of the Communist Party in the United States of America, what it has been and what it is at the present time, with relation to the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. ODETS. I know what they say.
Mr. VELDE. You just stated you had an opinion, and I would like to hear that opinion.
Mr. ODETS. Well, my opinion is that the Communist Party is interested in preserving itself as a minority political party. I believe, sir, that that is their right under the United States Constitution. I do not think that their essential purpose is the preservation of the Constitution. I think they want to bring about some kind of social disorder. I find some of their practices reprehensible. I am against secrecy in any political party. I would not advocate the Communist Party for anyone to join because of their secrecy. One of the elements that made me leave the Communist Party was secrecy. I saw no reason to be conspiratorial in the United States. I see no reason now toi any political party to be conspiratorial minthe United States. I believe in free speech. I believe in open political practice. I advocate these things. Frequently I have gotten in trouble because I have stood up for free speech at moments when it seemed to be even taking the Comnunist Party point of view. I have fought for civil rights and civil liberties, again when it seemed to be taking the Communist Party point of view. This is why I find myself on some of these documents, because, as I said a few weeks ago, the lines of liberalism and the lines of left thought frequently cross each other. However, if one winnows out and deals only with the Communiit Party position in the United States, I am frankly against it. I am simply againstMr. VELDE. Then, do you believe that the avowed purpose of the Communist Party in the United States is not to overthrow our form of government, our Constitution, by force and violence ?
Mr. ODETS. I don't think that is their purpose.
Mr. VELDE. Even in view of the fact that it was proven to be true in the case of the trial of the 11 Communists ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, sir, if I may say so, you have a split of opinion about that, even in the Supreme Court of the United States. You have a majority opinion which says what you say, and you have a minority opinion which says what I feel. And I frankly agree with the minority opinion.
Mr. VELDE. You agree with the minority opinion?
Mr. ODETS. Of Justice Black and Justice Douglas and Justice Frankfurter. Now, I am trying to cut that very fine and tell you as COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3497 acutely and honestly as I can what I believe, n ithout evading the issue that you bring out.
Mr. VELDE. I just wanted to get that clear inll my mind.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you, while a member of the Communist Party, study the literature given to you by the Communist Party and did you read the constitution of the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. I read all of the literature, sir, only slightly, a little.
Mr. TAiENNER. Well, did you read the constitution of the Communist Party ?
Mr. OnTrs. I frankly did not know that they had a constitution. That the Communist Party has a constitution, I didn't know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have spoken of the Communist Party as a political party. By that do you mean that you do not agree that communism in this country as established and the Communist Party of the United States is not a conspiratorial party diiected from sources outside of the United States and aimed at the overthrow of the Government of the United States?
Mr. ODETS. You are asking me, sir, do I believe that the Communist Party is directed by interests outside of the United States, and are they directed toward the overthrow of the United States Government?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. ODETS. My guess would be that the Communist Party in the United States takes its orders or follows directions, follows directions from European sources. As to my belief about their trying to violently overthrow the Government of the United States, I am inclined to think not, I don't know. The reason I say I don't know is because if a party is interested in real conspiracy, they don't publish, they don't publish newspapers, they don't publish pamphlets, they don't put out all of this literature. I am talking as honestly and as acutely as I can at the moment. I mean, it is easy for me to slough over these matters. It is easy for me to evade these questions. But to answer you honestly I cannot see that a party that would be interested in treachery would publish its programs in the public press, would put out 5-cent pamphlets, would be putting out newspapers, would be putting out pamphlets available to an3 one and everyone.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ha-n't Lenin been perfectly plain about his objects in overthrowing the governments of capitalistic countries, as he referred to them HIasn't lie put that in writing and hasn t that been the backbone of the doctrine of the Communist Party, openly and aboveboard in every country in the world?
Mr. ODETS. I will agree with you, generally, it is open to question. My little reading says, "Well, this is open to question." But I think I would agree with you generally that where there was a revolution in Rlussia, Lenin said let's take over. I am certain that is what happened. History certainly tells us that.
Mr. VELDE. May I ask a question for clarification ? You mentioned that you felt that the American Communist Party was directed by European sources. What do you mean Iby"European sources"?
Mr. ODETS. I would say that they took their lineMr. VALDE. What part of Europe ?
Mr. ODETS. They took their line from Communist Parties abroad. For instance, there seems to have been a time during the war when the Communist Party went about-face and said, "Let's not be a Com21546-52-pt. 8-4 3498 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY munist Party any more, let's be some kind of political association." And that is apparently the way they work out things.
Mr. VELDE. You feel that the Communist Party of the United States is directed in its policies by the Comintern?
Mr. ODETS. The case I am thinking of is suddenly the French Communist Party, which said, "Look, you gentlemen are not functioning as you should." Lo and behold, the party makes an about-face and takes the suggestion of the French party and becomes a Communist Party instead of a political association.
Mr. VELDE. You still have not answered my question, or at least it is still apparent in my mind. Do you think the American Communist Party is directed from European sources or from Asiatic or Russian sources?
Mr. ODETS. Let me say both Asiatic and European.
Mr. VELDE. I suppose you realize that the Comintern has its headquarters in Moscow.
Mr. ODETS. Yes.
Mr. TAN ENNER. Are you acquainted with the Manual of Organization of the Conmmunist Party which was written by J. Peters?
Mr. ODETS. I am sorry, sir, I never heard of that document.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were referring and basing your judgment, I think, and your estimate of the situation, upon your surprise that a matter would be made public if it was actually a part of a conspiracy. Let me read you a paragraph from the book written by J. Peters, the manual, The Role and Aim of the Communist Party. As the leader and organizer of the proletariat, the Communist Paity of the United States of America leads the working class in a fight for the revolutionary overthrow of capitalism, for the establishment ofthe dictatorship of theproletariat, for the establishment of a socialistic Soviet republic in the United States, for the complete abolition of classes, for the establishment of socialism, as the fist stage of classless, Communist society. Now, that is written in black and white by the noted organizer of the Communist Party, J. Peters. So you see, it is a matter of public record as to what the Communist Party of the United States stands for, and so I again ask you, in light of what you know, and have learned in your study of communism: Do you maintain that communism is just a political party as distinguished from a conspiracy to overthrow the Government of the United States, directed from a foreign country?
Mr. ODETS. If I may say so, Mr. Tavenner and Mr. Velde, you have me here in a rather singular position. You have me here defending communism. I am not here for that purpose.
Mr. TAVENNER. I only asked you the question to explain yourself, your very loose use of the term "political party."
Mr. ODETS. I simply understand this: I understand that the Communist Party is a legally recognized minority political party in the United States. Am I correct about that. sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, this committee has never considered it a political party. It considers that it is a conspiratorial group.
Mr. ODETS. Well then, I think that recommendation should be made, if I may be so bold as to say so, to have this party declared illegal, because at the moment my best knowledge is that this is a legal political party in the United States. And since this is an investigatory committee, then recommendations must be made for its abolishment. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3499 This is not in my hands, certainly. And right at the moment, I am in a very uncomfortable position, as I say, of being pushed into a corner defending communism. I don't want to, and I am not here for that purpose.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was not my intention to ask you questions which would put you in a position to defend communism. I wanted merely to give you the opportunity to explain yourself fully because the use of the term as purely a political party may be subject to considerable misconception.
Mr. ODETS. I can only say for myself that I find their conspiratorial methods-conspiratorial means to me chiefly underground, working in secret and hiding. I find them extremely reprehensible.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you spoke of the duty of the committee as an investigative body to make recommendations if it believed that the Communist Party is a conspiratorial body, and that possibly the committee should recommend that the Communist Party be outlawed. What is your recommendation on that subject? 
Mr. ODETS. My recommendation is that any political party has been made to declare itself in the open, if it wants to exist as a legally recognized political party in the United States. This is my wholehearted recommendation. I believe in democratic procedure. I believe in stating and avowing your beliefs, if you want to stand up for them in public and want support for them.
Mr. VELDE. Even though you admit that the Communist Party is directed from Moscow ? The policies are directed from Moscow, still you believe it should exist in this country as a political party?
Mr. ODETS. I didn't say that. 
Mr. VELDE. I am sorry. What was your recommendation with reference to outlawing the Communist Party ?
Mr. ODETs. My recommendation was that any party or any group of people that wanted to stand as a political party in the United States had to stand up and move in the open and had to be willing to be counted in public.
Mr. VELDE. But by making that statement you don't mean to infer that the Communist Party should be such a recognizedMr. ODETS. I think, if you ask me, I think we need a liberal party in this country. I don't think the Communist Party is it, by the widest stretch of imagination. But when I talk this way, I am talking about the possibility of some kind of liberal labor party that I wbuld like to see come into existence. If I may say so, the foolish position of a man like myself is that he has no party to belong to. And I think that I share this foolish, empty position with thousands of sincere and earnest-thinking liberals in the United States. We have no party to join because we cannot give our allegiance to the Communist Party. So when I talk to you this way, I am talking from that background of feeling.
Mr. WALTER. You feel that the Democratic Party is too reactionary for you ?
Mr. ODETS. I don't think I said that, sir.
Mr. WALTER. There is a very clear inference.
Mr. ODETS. We know that there are all sorts of groups within the Democratic Party.
Mr. WALTER. Yes. For which I apologize every 2 years. 3500 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you photostatic copies of several pages from the September 1939 issue of Soviet Russia Today. Page 24 contains the text of an open letter calling for closer cooperation with the Soviet Union. Will you examine the document and state whether your name appears on page 25?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; my name is there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee who solicited your signature to that letter and the circumstances under which it was obtained?
Mr. ODETS. Again you have my word, Mr. Tavenner, that I have no memory of this at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a letterhead of the United Office and Professional Workers of America, local 16, dated February 1, 1940. This is a committee sponsoring the fifth annual stenographers' ball. Your name appears thereon as one of the sponsors. Will you tell the committee who solicited your sponsorship and the circumstances.
Mr. ODETS. I am going to guess it was some stenographer. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with local 16 of the Professional Workers?
Mr. ODETS. No, I don't know what that is. No, I don't know what that is, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNE . Local 16 is a group that has been rather notorious in its activities as a part of the larger organization which was expelled by the CIO because of its C'ommunist Party activities.
Mr. ODETS. I don't know about that, nothing about that.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a pamphlet entitled "Youngville, U. S. A." published by the American Youth Congress. Your name appears therein as a member of the National Advisory Committee. Will you tell the committee the circumstances of your membership on the National Advisory Committee of this organization ?
Mr. ODETS. I can't, sir. You throw me for a loss. You have me at a disadvantage. I don't know about this.
Mr. TAVENNEIL. Well, will you examine it closely enough to refresh your recollection, if you can?
Mr. ODETS. No, I remember the name of the organization, the American Youth Congress. In fact, I think at that time it was the leading youth congress in the country. And again I remember it as ai ery broad front outfit. I see the advisory coninittee is a very broad one.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do recall, do you not, that the organization has been cited by the Attorney General as a front organization.
Mr. ODET.. No, this is my first knowledge of that, the fact that you say so.
Mr. TAVE:xNEn. The Daily Worker of March 5, 1941, carries a statement in defense of the Communist Party. I hand it to you so you may examine it. I want to read a part of this statement. It is in this language. on-sequently, we. who ar not Communists, whose concern goes the prosernation of their constitutional rights to the maintenance of the beyond democratic nay of life as a road into future, urge you, the President, to exercise auilhmlty and influence, to prevent those under you from stimulating your unAnierinn actions against Communists by undemocratic utterances. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3501 Your name appears as one of the signers. Will you tell the committee who solicited your signature and the circumstances?
Mr. ODETS. This, I can. I am sorry, I can't and because I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. The date, as you see, is March 5, 1941. Among those who state that they are not Communists in that article are Theodore Dreiser, Tom Mooney, Albert Maltz. Frederick V. Field, Samuel Ornitz, and Doxey Wilkerson and also Dr. Dirk J. Struck. Can you point out the reason for the signing of such a statement by those persosi claiming not to be members of the Communist Party, being disinterested individuals on the subject of communism?
Mr. ODETS. NO; I can't tell you about that because I don't know about it. I see there are three or four or five hundred signatures here, and many of these people obviously are not. A large majority of them are not, in my opinion.
Mr. TAVENNER. And some who are obviously members of the Communist Party, who say they are not.
Mr. ODETS. Well, these people apparently have since been proven to be Communists. I don't know either way.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of the letterhead of the Citizens' Committee for Harry Bridges dated April 24, 1941. Your name appears as a sponsor. Will you tell the committee how your ,ponsorship of this group was obtained?
Mr. ODETS. I would guess that I was written to or telephoned sometime when I was in California. I have no memory of this.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have no further recollection ?
Mr. ODETS. No. I am sorry; I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you of the opinion that the effort to deport Harry Bridges constituted an attack on organized labor as well as an attack on the rights of minorities as claimed in that letter?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know what the letter claims. I have no opinion about it. I know very little about Harry Bridges and what he is about.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if you authorize the use of your name, which you say you may have done to that letter, you should have some opinion regarding the contents which you authorized to go out over your signature.
Mr. ODETS. I am just trying to see what this says. I was looking at this letter, it says:
Mr. Bridges has been tried a second time on the pretext of a new law passed after an exhaustive hearing and acquittal by Dean Landis. I would sign this on the basis of the Landis report which was an exhaustive one. Now my memory comes back on it.
Mr. TAVENNER. That may be your view on that point, but my question related to its being an attack on all organized labor as well as on the rights of minorities. That was the view taken in that letter. I am interested in the reason for such an assertion.
Mr. ODETS. I did not make that assertion. I cannot defend it because I am not really familiar with the subject. I cannot defend that assertion.
Mr. TAVENNER. No doubt you are familiar with the Communist slogans which became popular during the early days of the European war, when the war between Germany and England was an "imperialist war," when the Communist Party took the position and prepared 3502 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY slogans stating that the "Yanks are not coming." Did you express any opinions on the war when Germany attacked Russia on June 22, 1941?
Mr. ODETS. I have no memory of that, sir, but I have memory of what my stand was. I did say to you once off the record that, when our great President Franklin Roosevelt sent his first warning letters to Mussolini and Hitler, I as a citizen of our country wrote President Roosevelt a letter, and it happened to be the only time I ever got an answer. I got a small friendly note. So my stand, as unimportant as it is, my stand is recorded by this little note. And it was opposed to the stand that you just read me about. I did not think that Russia's opinion had anything to do with making our foreign policy.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the attack, in your mind, of Germany upon Russia have any bearing on your opinion ?
Mr. ODETS. I was of the opinion from 1935 on, if you are interested in my small opinion, I was of the opinion that we would have to fight Hitler. I didn't see how the United States could stay out of it, because we were in the line of direct threat. This was always my opinion and it did not change.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the August 1941 issue of Soviet Russia Today. Will you look at page 18 under statements by noted people, and read the statement by Clifford Odets.
Mr. ODETS. Well, sir, this statement in no way contradicts what I just said.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you read it, please?
Mr. ODETS. It says, "The first battlefront of the world against Fascist barbarism is now being held by the Soviet Union. In the name of humanity, no person or group of persons must prevent or dissuade us from the high purpose of lending all possible aid to the brave Russian fighters." Sir, my memory is that that was the policy of the United States Government shortly thereafter.
Mr. TAVENNER. To whom did you make that statement ?
Mr. ODETS. I have no idea.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to June 22, 1941, what was your position with regard to the United States entering the war ?
Mr. ODETS. My best memory is that steadily-I am a little embarrassed talking about these great world problems as if it mattered what I thought about them-but my memory is that I told you that I simply felt that Hitlerism was the great danger of the world and we would have to fight it. I know the Communist Party line did a number of flipflops there. They were of no interest to me, and I had no connection with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy, pages 20 and 21, of the June 1943 issue of Soviet Russia Today. This was a letter released by the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. Your name appears among those who signed that letter. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which your signature was obtained?
Mr. ODETS. I don't remember that, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you-Mr. ODETS. This, of course, sir, was the time-I am guessing from the signatures, which constitute a roster of some of our very dis- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3503 tinguished citizens-this was certainly at a time when we were all-out in our aid to the Soviet Union during the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; you are acquainted with the fact, however, that the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship was a wellrecognized Communist-front organization as cited by the Attorney General. Of course, the citation had not been made at that time. But you are acquainted with the fact that it was subsequently cited as a front organization; are you not
Mr. ODETS. I hear you say so, and I take your word for it. I don't know about it. I simply assume that you are telling me the truth; that is all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Hadn't you known that before my mentioning it to you today ?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir, because I hadn't closely followed these things, and much that you tell me is news and information to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the Daily Worker for April 22, 1946. On page 4 there is a list of names of persons who supported the May Day parade. Your name appears on the list.
Mr. ODETS. This came up before, and I told you that I had no memory of this, and I was extremely doubtful about it because this is in New York, and those were the days when I was in Hollywood for 4 or 41/2 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you account for the fact that your name is used in that connection?
Mr. ODETS. I have no idea. I am certain that I was not in New York, that I was in California. What I would have to do with the May Day parade in New York City, I have no way of knowing. It sounds just a little impossible to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Hanns Eisler ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes; I knew him.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the Daily Worker for September 26, 1947. On page 12 there is an article regarding Hanns Eisler, and lists a number of persons who expressed strong interest in the case. Your name appears on the list. What was your interest in Hanns Eisler's case?
Mr. ODETS. I met Hanns Eisler first in New York City in 1939 or 1940, as a-I met him as a very gifted composer, and later had the pleasure of employing him to write music for a play of mine, Night Music, for which le wrote a very gifted score. We developed a friendship. Then, when I later went out to California and began to not only write but to direct movies, I was interested naturally in getting the best musical score that I could, and I asked the studio RKO to hire Hanns Eisler for a picture I directed called None But the Lonely Heart, and we remained friends. When he was in trouble, as a friend I tried to help him. I knew him as a totally nonpolitical figure. I saw him a number of times in Hollywood. I knew he had indulged in no political activity of any sort, that he lived very quietly, that he was essentially an artist, and I saw him and recognized him as a friend.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then it was purely on a personal basis that you were interested in that case?
Mr. ODETS. Absolutely, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Civil Rights Congress held a national convention in Chicago during November 1947. The cover program reflects 3504 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY your name as a sponsor. Can you tell the committee about your sponsorship of that organization?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know about this, sir, except that I see some very good tunes. As I put it before-that is, I am talking from a liberal point of view-but how or when I signed this I have no way of remembering.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you affiliated in any manner with the National Council of Arts, Sciences and Professions?
Mr. ODETS. I believe I am-what would you call it-a sponsor or executive board member or councilman ? I don't know. I think I am an officer of that organization.
Mr. TAN IENNER. According to a letterhead of the organization dated July 28, 1950, you were a member of the board of directors.
Mr. ODETS. That would be correct, sir.
Mr. TA-ENNER. What were the circumstances under which you became a member of that organization?
Mr. ODETS. Again this would be by invitation through mail, or by telegram. I cannot remember the exact circumstances.
Mr. TAVINNER. According to the Daily Worker of October 24, 1949, the New York State Council of the Arts, Sciences and Professions sponsored a meeting at St. Nicholas Arena, October 27, regarding the conviction of the 11 Communist leaders. You are listed as one of the speakers. Did you speak on that occasion ?
Mr. ODETS. Yes, sir; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wlio solicited you to take part in that meeting?
Mr. ODETS. Mv best memory there would be, as I remember, I think Sid Benson came to my house and asked me to speak there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Sid Benson is the same person as Ted Wellman?
Mr. ODETS. That is right.
Mr. TAVFNNER. What representations did Ted Wellman make to you ?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I distinctly remember that I asked him very carefully-this was a broad-front affair-that if it were a Communist meeting I would not speak there. He assured me it was not, since the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council was sponsoring it. This convinced me that lie was speaking the truth, and I went there to make a brief statement.
Mr. TAVENNER. You knew Wellman was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ODETS. I did not know that then. I mean in the sense that I did not know if le were any longer a Communist Party member. I still don't know that hlieis.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you know that he was a member at the time that you were a member of the party ?
Mr. ODETS. I think he was; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discuss communism with him at that time to a greater extent than to inquire whether this was a Communistsponsored meeting?
Mr. ODETS. No; I didn't discuss that with him, but I went to the meeting; I made a very brief talk, and I started the talk that I am not a Communist. This was my opening remark.by Isaying since speaking to you last, read over the speech, and I now knowhave, tinctly what I signed. And the content of this very brief speech diswas COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3505 that to fight for the right of any legally recognized minority political party was good old-fashioned solid American practice.
Mr. TAVENNER. That brings us back into the discussion again as to whether or not the Communist Party is a political party in the sense of which you used it or whether it is a conspiratorial group designed to overthrow the Government of the United States. That is a very basic matter.
Mr. ODETS. If I may, I would like to stand on the record of what I said, and that I have no intention of defending the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. In discussing this meeting with Wellman, did you ask him whether he was still a member of the party, or did he state whether or not he was still a member of the party ?
Mr. ODETS. What happened there, sir, is very clear in my memory. I was in a sickbed and he contacted me something like 7 o'clock at night. I was not announced to speak there. Six-thirty or 7 o'clock at night he came around and contacted me and I did not want to go. I got off my sickbed and did go. There wasn't very much discussion, in fact he had to help me into a taxicab to get there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discuss communism in the course of your trip to and from the place of speaking?
Mr. ODETS. No; in no way.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did Wellman state to you that he was still a member of the Communist Party, or did you ask him any question relating to his Communist Party membership?
Mr. ODETS. No; I didn't. I am certain none of this matter came up.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the report of the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace held in New York City in March 1949. On page 146 of this report you are listed as one of the sponsors. Did you attend or participate in this conference? Md. ODETS. Yes., sir; I did. I spoke at it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who solicited your sponsorship of that meeting?
Mr. ODETS. This could only be by mail, in this case by special-delivery mail, I am sure, but I would not remember who sent that to me. It was undoubtedly one of the heads of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council.
Mr. TAVENNEI. The World Congress for Peace was held in Paris in April 1949. According to a circular you were a member of the American sponsoring committee. Will you tell the committee the circumstances of your connection with this group?
Mr. ODETS. This I do not remember, but if I had felt that it were a continuation of the Waldorf-Astoria affair I might have lent my name to it. Otherwise I have no memory of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. The American Continental Congress for World Peace was held in Mexico City in September 1940. According to the Daily Worker of July 29,1949, at page 5, you were one of the endorsers of that meeting. How was your support solicited for that meeting?
Mr. ODETS. Again, it could only be done through mail or by telegram or perhaps a cable, I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have no further recollection of it?
Mr. ODETS. I have no recollection. I have usually been very careful about anything that emanated from a European source in terms of a statement or where a signature was needed. I certainly did not attend either of these affairs. 3506 COMIVMUNISM, IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Daily People's World of March 1, 1948, on page 5, you were a member of a committee sponsoring a banquet to raise funds for the defense of the Hollywood writers who had been cited for contempt of Congress. Inasmuch as you were not in Hollywood at that time, but had returned to New York, will you tell the committee how your support for that organization was solicited e
Mr. ODETS. This was a very large broad front committee. In fact, I see it is called the Committee of One Thousand. This would be done through the usual means of a letter or telegram.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was it that wrote you or telegraphed you?
Mr. ODETS. I am sorry, I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it any group with which you had previously had connection or association?
Mr. ODETS. It might have been the ASCP but I don't actually know.
Mr. VELDE. Were you active in any other way, supporting or defending the Hollywood 10?
Mr. ODETS. Very little. I would think this would be the only way.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you have any other recollections about doing anything else? Did you come to Washington or visit with any of them?
Mr. ODETS. Definitely not. Nothing of any large nature.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you say nothing of any large nature.
Mr. ODETS. Well, coning to Washington, for instance, would have been something of a large nature. No, I maybe signed that, and I might have signed another document. I don't remember. (Witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ODETS. Mr. Gresminan reminds me of my signature on an amicus brief to the court. I should think that that would constitute all of my connection with the matter.
Mr. VELDE. Did you talk to anyone about that brief before you signed it?
Mr. ODETS. My memory of that is that was a concerted Screen Writers' Guild effort, that is my memory of that, and a vote would be taken on the floor at the Screen Writers' Guild in Hollywood, shall we sign this or shall we not. And I went along with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You didn't attend that meeting, I take it?
Mr. ODETS. It is possible that I did. I think I must have, if I signed
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you were living, as I understand it, in New York at that time. You would remember if you made a trip to Hollywood, wouldn't you?
Mr. ODETS. Well, if I were in Hollywood I would have attended the meeting. If I were in New York I did not attend the meeting and my signature must have been obtained by mail, by some sort of mailing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me see if I can refresh your recollection as to several other connections you had with the Hollywood 10, which was just referred to. I beg your pardon, this does not relate to the Hollywood 10, it relates to the 12 Communist leaders who were tried in New York. According to the Daily Worker of February 28, 1949, a Committee for COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3507 Free Political Advocacy was formed for the defense of the 12 Communist leaders who had been indicted. Thins committee released a the prosecution of statement demanding that thie Government these Communists. Your name appears as one of the signers of that. under which your ascircumstances Will you tell the committee the sistance was obtained in that matter?
Mr. ODETS. I have no memory of that. I see the first line says: stop Chief Justice .Jnnes H Wolf of Itah )e'terday denoumned the Government's prosecution of the national communist leaders. I know nothing about it. It seems again to be the broadest front sort of thing, and it is possible I signed it. You say my name is here?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. ODETS. I may have signed it, but I have no memory of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by referring to that article as being the character of the broadest front?
Mr. ODETS. Well, there are simply so many names of liberals on it. There are so many of our distinguished citizens who have signed this, that I cannot see it as a Communist affair at all.
Mr. TAVENXER. But it was in the defense of Communists, and we are interested in knowing how your support was obtained, whether it was obtained through the Communist Party or persons working through the party.
Mr. ODETS. I would say that most of these, sir, came through the Arts, Sciences, and Professions, on mimeographed sheets with one, two, or three signatures, as they frequently did.
Mr. TAVENKER. I show you a photostatic copy of the letterhead of the National Nonpartisan Committee To Defend the Rights of the 12 Communist Leaders. Your name appears thereon as a member. Do you recall your membership in that organization?
Mr. ODETS. No, I have no recollection even of the name, National Nonpartisan Committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you remember participating in the work of that organization ?
Mr. ODETS. No, I am certain I didn't participate in the work. If my signature is here, I must have signed it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who approached you for your signature, solicited your signature ?
Mr. ODETS. Again, this could only be through the usual methods. If they were in a hurry it was a special-delivery letter, and otherwise it was an ordinary postal letter.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Daily Worker of June 23,1949, the Civil Rights Conference held a conference on civil and human rights to be held the following Saturday to discuss ways and means of taking action on behalf of the 11 Communists. You are reported as one of those issuing the call for this conference. Will you tell the committee what prompted you to join in the issuance of the call for a conference by the Civil Rights Congress?
Mr. ODETS. Well, I would have joined it only in the defense of civil liberties.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who solicited your participation in that conference, or rather your issuance of the call?
Mr. ODETS. Again I have no memory of it, except that it would have come through the usual mail of the morning. 3508 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Daily Worker of May 12, 1950, at page 12, a petition was filed with the United Nations to investigate contempt citations, and I use the term, by way of quotation, by the "House Un-American Committee," which is the term by which the committee is usually called when used by a Communist organization.
Mr. ODETS. You brought this up before, and I can only say that I not only have no memory of it, but it is impossible that I signed it, because the whole conception of appealing to the U. N. is just a nutty idea. I couldn't possibly have signed it. I couldn't agree with such nonsense.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your name appears on it, and we are asking the explanation of why your name appears.
Mr. ODETS. On this one, I deny my name on it. The idea is just nutty.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your explanation of the way in which your signature was obtained ?
Mr. ODETS. I don't know.
Mr. WALTER. Do you feel it was nutty because Russia was a part of it ?
Mr. ODETS. No, to appeal; the citizens of the United States, to appeal to the U. N. for something happening in the United States is just foolish, in my opinion.
Mr. TAVENXER. According to the Daily Worker of June 22, 1950, page 10, the National Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions conducted a town rally to free Hollywood writers convicted of contempt of Congress. You are listed as having wired the organization as follows: I believe that yours is truly the American way and salute you all in the name of your convictions and courage. Do you remember sending that telegram?
Mr. ODETS. My best guess would be that I did send this telegram.
Mr. T. xENNER. Did you send the telegram because you believed that the Hollywood 10 were not in contempt of Congress?
Mr. ODETs. No, I felt that they-I, by the way, did not agree with their stand. But I felt that it was very American to fight, to fight for what you conceived to be your constitutional rights, and I felt impelled and moved to send this wire, and I did not agree with their stand.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then why did you send this telegram praising them so highly for the stand they were taking?
Mr. ODETS. I thought they were making a good fight and by the way, I must tell you frankly that at that I did not believe that a number of them were Communists. I, for instance, must tell you that in Hollywood I was very frequently with one of the finest human beings I had ever met. That is Adrian Scott. I could not believe that some of these were members of the Communist Party. I thought some of these people were being prosecuted for what they were not, and I later was surprised to learn that apparently all of them were Communists. I did not have many who were friends of Hollywood, but Adrian certainly astounded me.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of page 7 of the Daily Worker of August 23, 1937. Apparently this was on the occasion of your return to New York from Hollywood, and considerable space was given to you and your plays in that article. The article evidently COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3509 represents an interview by a reporter for the Daily Worker. In this article you are identified as Clifford Odets, well-known left-wing playwright. According to the article, you were questioned as to whether you had made an effort to turn out scenarios with social content while in Hollywood. You will observe that you were quoted as saying: Well, I got away with some stuff in The General Dies at Dawn and in the other two scripts that I did, The River Is Blue and Gettysburg, but they have been careful with me They go over my stuff with a fine-tooth comb. It is difficult to do an thing with social significance. Do you recall the interview that is related there, or did you have such an interview ?
Mr. ODETS. I remember reading this from your hands a few weeks ago, and saying that I thought the whole matter was nonsense because The General Dies at Dawn is a picture that starred Gary Cooper and done by Paramount. There was nothing of any subversive or propaganda nature in it. Gettysburg is a picture in which Abraham Lincoln is the hero. And The River is Blue I did not write. Therefore, I couldn't have made this statement to speak specifically about what is in it. To speak generally, I go to Hollywood to make a living, not to write something, while I am making a living, not to demean or disgrace American people as I believe many people do. But to make an honest living after writing entertaining scripts. I have never gone to Hollywood as a propagandist. I think nothing gets by anybody in Hollywood. I don't think Hollywood has ever made a movie with left propaganda in it. And I think the whole matter of social messages from Hollywood has been talked about in relation to something that really cannot happen. All scripts are carefully written and rewritten and gone over with fine combs in Hollywood, and I never in my life had any intention of going to Hollywood and making a two million dollar picture which was a propaganda picture. This is simply such a contradiction in terms that the idea is just a silly one.
Mr. WOOD. Then it is finally your conclusion that you were misquoted ?
Mr. ODETS. I am misquoted all the way through there. I suppose if the interview took place it could not have been a friendly interview, because when I look at the top of it, it very sneeringly refers to me as a man who gave up his career and went to Hollywood to make his gold. The opening of the interview is extremely unfriendly. So if it were, I could not have been very friendly with the interviewer.
Mr. WOOD. Did the contents of it come to your attention at that time ?
Mr. ODETS. No, sir, Mr. Tavenner brought that to my attention some 3 or 4 weeks ago when I was here.
Mr. WOOD. Was that the first knowledge you had that you were misquoted ?
Mr. ODETS. That was my first knowledge of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall that an interview took place with the person whose name is mentioned as the interviewer?
Mr. ODFTS. I think it says Burns. No, I don't know who that is. May I see that again, please. I have no idea who that is, and I have no memory of the interview1937, that is 14 years ago. I was quoted as saying, "Social drama isn't dying, it never really lived." That is what he quotes me as say- 3510 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY ing. He says I was lured away from Broadway horns by Hollywood gold. I have no memory of it.
Mr. WALTER. As a matter of fact, isn't the screening so thorough on that it would be an utter impossibility to slant a picture? There are so many people that examine it for that particular purpose? Isn't that the fact?
Mr. ODETS. You are right. There is nothing less possible in Hollywood. Nothing less possible.
Mr. WALTER. And has that not always been the fact?
Mr. ODETS. Ever since I have been there.
Mr. WALTER. Has the industry not endeavored to set up sort of a sinecure, as it were?
Mr. ODETS. They have always done that.
Mr. WALTER. In order to determine whether or not an attempt has been made to get an improper message?
Mr. ODETS. They have always been very, very favorable about that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I want to go back and ask you a question regarding your plays Waiting for Lefty and 'Til the Day I Die. I show you another pamphlet entitled "Guide to Readings on Communism," issued by the Workers' Bookshop. On the inside of the front cover you will find this statement: This guide has been compiled to help those woi kers, students, and intellectuals who are finding their way to communism The titles of books and pamphlets included in this pamphlet are by no means complete What we have attempted to do here is to list the immuniuim required readn's for an understanding of the fundamental, theoretical, and practical questions facing the international as well as the American revolutionary movement. Then on page 19 you will find listed the two plays of yours, Waiting for Lefty and 'Til the Day I Die, and they are described as two of the important revolutionary plays. I call that to your attention to show that as early as 1937 those particular works of yours were on the required reading and study curriculum, you may say, of the Comimuiist Party. Do you have any comment to make on that ?
Mr. ODETS. I would say that they would have that use. As early as 1937 they, of course, were on the Wilson Library index and were required reading in most of the colleges and universities of the United States. I said yesterday and will say again that one of the reasons I left the Communist Party was that I did not want my work or my meaning to be narrowed down to their meaning. Here in this pamphlet they narrowed down the meaning of what I write to their meaning. I have always wanted to speak more broadly and more freely and not be connected with this narrow meaning. I would much rather be taught and have my plays as required reading in American universities than I would have 'it in this pamphlet.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Odets, these various documents that I have presented to you by no means complete the record of your activities and affiliations, as appears from the record of our committee. They are the principal ones. But you are now aware of this information which we are in possession of. It is the record that we have. You say you joined the Communist Party in 1935 and remained a party member only a few months. I think probably 9 months. You also say that your break with the Communist Party was complete and final. How do you reconcile your statement that your break with the Communist Party was complete and final with this record of COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3511 affiliation with Communist-front organizations as shown by these exhibits?
Mr. ODErs. Well, I will say again, as I said before, Mr. Tavenner, that the lines of leftism, liberalism, in all of their shades and degrees, are constantly crossing like a jangled chord on a piano. It is almost impossible to pick out which note is which note. I have spoken out on what I thought were certain moral issues of the day, and I found myself apparently in line with your documentation, I have found myself frequently on platforms with Communists that I did not know about then but evidently are now known Communists. I have said before that many of these people have some very good tunes. They have picked up some of our most solemn and sacred American tunes and they sing them. If I as an American liberal must sometimes speak out the same tune, I must sometimes find myself on platforms, so to speak, with strange bedfellows. I have never wittingly, since these early days, have ever wittingly, joined or spoken on an exclusively Communist program or platform, not to my knowledge. I see that one must do one of two things. One must pick one's way very carefully through the mazes of liberalism and leftism today or one must remain silent. Of the two, I must tell you frankly I would try to pick the first way, because the little that I have to say, the little that I have to contribute to the betterment or welfare of the American people could not permit me to remain silent.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Odets, would you, if you had this to do over againthat is, join all of these Communist-front groups-would you do it at the present time? Would you sponsor the same things that you call liberalism and so forth?
Mr. ODETS. I do not think I would sponsor many of them. I would pick very carefully and would be careful where I put my signature.
Mr. VELDE. Which one of these organizations would you continue to sponsor?
Mr. ODETS. I cannot sav at the moment, but what I would like to do, if I had a program for the future, what I would like'to do would be. if there were organizations that stood for what liberals stood for, if they were Communist dominated or controlled, I would like to wrest away from the Communists their control of these organizations, one or two of them. I mean, I do not know right now to what extent an organization like the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Committee or Council is Communist dominated, because it is a valuable organization, but with many fine, outstanding citizens in it, I would like to wrest control of it away from the Communists.
Mr. VELDE. But do you still support it in its present constituency?
Mr. ODETS. I mean honestly to go back to New York City and make an earnest and sincere investigation of the organizations, particularly in regard to that one organization. Of all of theseMr. VELDE. Until you do make that investigation, you are going to continue to support the organization?
Mr. ODETS. I am going to make the investigation immediately.
Mr. WOOn. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Any reason why the witness should not be excused from further attendance before the committee ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir, I think not. 3512 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY
Mr. WOOD. Very well. It is so ordered. The committee will stank in recess until 2: 30 this afternoon. (Whereupon, at 12: 30 p. m., the committee was recessed until 2:30 p. m. the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (The subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities reconvened at 2:40 p. m., Representative John S. Wood (chairman), Francis E. Walter, and Harold L. Velde being present.)
Mr. WOOD. Come to order, please. The same subcommittee of this morning will be for this afternoon session. Mr. Velde and Mr. Wood are present, and Mr. Walter will be in in a moment. Who do you have ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Isobel Lennart, please.
Mr. WooD. You do solemnly swear the evidence you shall give to this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Miss LENNART. I do. TESTIMONY OF ISOBEL LENNART
