Miss LENNART. I have seen counsel but I don't think I need him to be with me.
Mr. WOOD. In the event you determine that you need counsel, you may have him.
Miss LENNART. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNE. What is your name, please?
Miss LENNART. Isobel Lennart.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you born?
Miss LENNART. New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you reside now ?
Miss LENAiART. Malibu, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. Give us the name again?
Miss LENNART. Malibu, Calif.
Mr. T\VENXNE. Are you here in pursuance to a subpena?
Miss LENNART. No, Mr. Tavenner, I am here at my own request. I asked the committee for a hearing, and they said anyone who had ever been a Communist and wished to get the record straight on himself would have the privilege of coming here, and I took advantage of it. May I say something about this, though, because a year ago,1Iay 1951, a year ago, Mr. Wheeler, the investigator for the committee came to see me. He had a subpena for me at that time. He did not serve it, I am pretty sure, because I was in the third month of a pregnancy. Shall I go on? I would like to tell about this whole thing.
Mr. TAVENNE. Make any explanation that you desire.
Miss LENNART. There is a particular reason'why I wish to. When
Mr. Wheeler came to see nie lie asked me if I cared to discuss it with him-he thought evidently at that time that I was going to testifyif I would care to'discuss with him what my position would be, and I said "Yes," I certainly would, that I would tell the truth about myself and my past associations, and that I did not think that I would name names, nor did I at that time, for reasons which I would rather discuss later if I may. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3513 
Mr. Wheeler called me a day later and said that the committee would like to withdraw the subpena because of my condition, and I resisted this quite strongly. For one thing, I had been waiting for a subpena for a long, long time and I wanted to get it over with, and I was up to here. I felt all right, but he had much better judgment, I found out. My doctor urged me very strongly to let hinm withdraw it for the time being, and at the end of 2 or 3 days of arguing with my husband and Dr. So-and-So, Mr. Wheeler promised me that this was not considered an evasion that I was using. t I want to say that his judgment was a lot better than mine. turned out to be a miserable pregnancy, and it ended very well. I don't think it would have if I had testified, and I am very, very grateful to Mr. Wheeler and the committee for being so considerate on something so important to me. But here I am, and this time I asked of my own accord. I was not notified that I would be subpenaed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you are appearing here today at your own request and voluntarily.
Miss LENNART. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I assume, in your appearance here, you desire to tell the committee about your own connection with the Communist Party, and all you know about its operations, or otherwise you would not have come.
Miss LENNART. Exactly. I feel the time has come when I want to get it straightened out, as to exactly what my past associations have been and why I have repudiated them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, before you so testify for the committee, let me ask you, what is your profession ?
Miss LENNART. I am a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. A screen writer. How long have you been a screen writer?
Miss LENNART. Since 1941, about 11 years, roughly I guess.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time what type of screen writing have you engaged in ?
Miss LENN ART. Well, I usually write right from the beginning to the end of the picture, the story and screen play. Most of my credits are of that type. They are mostly very light and frothy pictures, largely musicals.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names, please, of the principal screen credits which you have received for plays which have been produced.
Miss LENNART. Yes. Lost Angel, Anchors Aweigh, Stranger in Town, Hardy Affair, Hardy in Mexico, Kissing Bandit, East SideWest Side, A Life of Her Own. I think those are the released pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. For what producers have you worked ?
Miss LENNART. Producers, or studios ?
Mr. T.AVENNER. Studios, I meant to say.
Miss LENNART. I have been under contract only to one studio since 1941, and that is Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. I have been loaned out on one or two occasions to RKO, and Twentieth Century Fox. But my entire working life has been spent at MOM.
Mr. TAVIx.NNER. When did you first go to Hollywood?
Miss LENNART. I went out in 1937. I was in the very beginning of my twenties and I wanted to be a director in pictures. I hoped to start 2154G-52-pt 8--- 3514 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY by being a script clerk. I had just gotten out of college and the first job I could get was in the stenographic department at MGM, where I worked for about a year. I later became a script clerk and eventually sold my first story and I have been writing ever since.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you tell the committee, after giving us that background, just how you became a member of the Communist Party and what your experience was within the party?
Miss LENNART. Well, when I was first out in Hollywood, I must say I don't want to be making excuses for myself, but it was the first time I had ever been away from home, except for college. I knew nobody in the entire town. I had this tough job in New York and this one took no training at all. I think I was signing fan mail letters or something of the sort. I was feeling completely useless as a human being. I wasn't doing anything for anybody but myself. This was during the rise of nazism which terrified me as it did many other people, and I talked about it a great deal and I felt as if I wanted to do something about it, not just talk. I met a reader at the studios, whose name was Jessie Burns-Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name ?
Miss LENNART. Jessie Burns, who was very kind and very friendly to me, and, as I say, I knew no one, and who, maybe, made me believe or convinced me that everybody was talking about nazism but only the Communist Party was trying in an organized way to do something about it. We talked about it a great deal and I was very interested because this fear was a very real one, as it should have been, I think. Jessie told mi about a studio group that was being formed which would consist of people who were not members of the Communist Party, although it would be under the auspices of the party, and that its purpose was to discuss current events, economics and so on, including the whole question of Hitlerism and what could be done about it, and suggested that I join this class, which I did. It was a class of seven or eight people, and this was, I would say, I think in 1938. It was a long time ago. There were about six or seven or eight people. I would say I have never seen any one of these people again. I think they were mostly white-collar workers but none from my own studio.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the names of any of them?
Miss LENNART. No; we used first names in this group. I must give an explanation. I only went to three or four meetings of this class. I dropped out of it. I do remember the last name of the man who taught the class, whose name was Silver. I have never been able to remember the first name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall his first name?
Miss LENNART. No, Mr. Tavenner, I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us an idea of the approximate age of the individual at that time?
Miss LENNART. Anybody over 30 seemed ancient to me. I have changed about this since, but he was a comparatively young man. I would guess that he was in his thirties, possible middle or late. He was very, very thin, the thinnest man I have ever seen in this world, if it would help identify him, and very unhealthy looking.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did these study groups meet?
Miss LENNART. They met at people's apartments, and I am sorry to say that my reason for dropping out was exactly that. They had COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3515 been at my apartment, all of the meetings I went to, because I was the only member of the group who lived alone, and I didn't have the problem of little brothers or husbands and so on to be bothered with. At the end of four meetings or three, I am not sure which, this location was inconvenient for other people in the group, and the next meeting place was set quite far downtown in Hollywood. I didn't drive and I worked all day and it just got to be too much of a hustle to try to get to a late evening meeting, and I dropped out of the group at that time. However, I didn't stop worrying about the fact that I was doing nothing but going to the studio and coming home at 6 o'clock and that was that, and things were going on in the world around me. I changed studios at that time and went over to Fox, where I started with script. But I continued seeing Jessie Burns and the people I had met through her, Madelaine Ruthven was one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you say Madelaine Ruthven ? 
Miss LENNART. Ruthven. And I continued worrying about the fact that I should be doing something and not just talking. The people I met through Jessie were people who seem to lead far more active and useful lives than I did. After a period of time I told Jessie that I was willing to join the Communist Party. She asked and I said that I was, and I did. And I have gone completely blank on what date this was. May I look at my notes, please? I can't remember what date it was. This was either at the extreme end of 1938 but I think more likely the beginning of 1939. Nothing happened for quite a while. I said I would join the Communist Party and I never heard anything more for months, because no new member class was starting. The way it used to work was that all people went into a new member class, and there was a series of lectures and material to read and so on, and then they were assigned to groups. But no such group was formed. I think, as I remember, the reason was that there was no teacher available. It was very difficult to get people to give their time to teach these classes. It was some months later I was assigned to a group without having been in a new member class.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were assigned to this group, who did you find were members of it?
Miss LENNART. This is the one thing I want to be sure I have ri+t. People I recall in these very early meetings were Maurice Murphy, Betty Anderson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us further identifying information regarding Maurice Murphy?
Miss LENNART. He was a young actor. It has been years since I have seen him. I have never seen him in Hollywood for 10 years. Certainly that long. But at that time he was an actor. And Betty Anderson later became Betty Wilson.
Mr. TAVENNER. And she testified in the hearings in CaliforniaMiss LENNART. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Regarding her own Communist Party membership and her reasons for leaving the party.
Miss LENNART. Yes, the same. Nora and George Hallgren.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell the last name. 
Miss LENNART. I think that is H-a-1-l-g-r-e-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us further identifying information regarding them? 3516 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Miss LENNART. I never knew whether Nora Hallgren worked or not. I understood she was a semi-invalid. Her husband, George Hallgren, worked at Twentieth Century Fox, where I now was working, in the credit union there for a year or so. Again these people I have never seen again. And Joe Bromberg.
Mr. TAVENNER. Bromberg?
Miss LENNART. B-r-o-m-b-e-r-g.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us further identification ?
Miss LENNART. He was an actor.
Mr. TAVENNER. He is now deceased.
Miss LENNART. Yes; I think this year or last year. Those are the people that I remember from this first group. My membership in this at the beginning was pretty much a token membership because just at this time I got my first script clerk job. I don't know if the committee knows what this job is. I believe I was the only script clerk to be a member of the Communist Party. That is a job that has brutal working hours. My normal day was leaving my house at 6: 30 in the morning and I seldom got home until midnight.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were your duties as a script clerk?
Miss LENNART. A script clerk prepares the picture, prepares the script for shooting in terms of putting together those sequences that are shot at one time, making all of the notes on costumes, sets that have to match, as you know. They often will shoot a long shot of a film one day and maybe often not get into the closer shots for 2 months later. All of the details of costume, movement of actors, dialog, and so forth, must match for cutting. It is a very detailed job and when you are through at night, when the company has finished shooting, you prepare a series of sheets for the cu'ter who cuts his picture using your notes as a guide. But since I was the junior script clerk on the lot, I got the B pictures, Mr. Moto and Charlie Chan and Westerns and so on. Those were called 18-day, 18-night pictures. You shot all day and most of the night and the key crew remained the same. The rest of the working guys were on union shifts. But we stayed all the way through.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any responsibility in the preparation of the script'
Miss LENNART. The content of the script ?
Mr. TAVENNFR. The content.
Miss LENNAPT. None at all. This is just a technical job. It is a kind of a left-handed assistant director But because of this, for some months, I was able to attend almost no meetings. I think a top average would be once every 2 months, and this was a top on that. I think there was also a problem of what to do with me because I didn't fit into any category, not as if I could fit into a writer's group or writer's work or so on. I think the people in the group, as I lemenmber, were largely occupied with work in the Anti-Nazi League at that time.
Mr. T VFNNER. Did you also work with the group in the AntiNazi League?
Miss L NN RT No., I didn't. I could not participate in any mass organization work because of the hours, because of night meetings. However, there was one organization only that I had a very brief COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3517 knowledge of. I was reproached for my lack of any activity. You know, I was just there. And they saidMr. TAVENNER. You mean 9ou were reproached by fellow members of the Communist Party ?
Miss LENNART. In the group, yes. Usually at a meeting. "What have you been doing? What is your activity? Are you working in a mass organization?" That sort of thing. And I wasn't and it was because of the hours. So they suggested that I might do some office work, and something called AFA, which was Associated Film Audiences. I was told that this was not a Communist organization, only I suppose in terms of behavior in the office and so on. I never met anybody there but another volunteer secretarial worker. I think I went about three times and licked envelopes in the office. They had followed awfully fast, I think because of the program which was a very ambitious one, and which was to organize film audiences to demand better pictures, better treatment of labor problems in pictures, better treatment of racial minorities in pictures, and so on, and to the best of my knowledge this organization didn't exist for more than a few months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any other person connected with that organization who was known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Miss LENNART. I only met one other person there in my three visits and that, as I say, was a volunteer secretarial worker whose name I don't know, don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the circumstances under which you were assigned? Was the subject brought up in a Communist Party meeting or by a Communist Party individual ?
Miss LENNART. Yes, it was; by one of the people I have mentioned in this group. Which one I don't know. But, yes, it was brought up in a group. It was a suggestive activity because it was one place where I could go in to daytimes if I didn't have a full afternoon's work.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it was a type of activity which was encouraged and suggested by the Communist Party?
Miss LE NART. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your entrance into the party was prior to the Stalin-Hitler pact?
Miss LENNART. Yes, it was. I dropped out-Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the making of that pact?
Miss LENNART. Yes, I do. I remember it very well because I stopped going to party meetings because of it. The explanation given in the party, after a lag in which no explanation was given, because I think they were caught short by it as anybody else wa'Mr. TAVEXXER. I believe the date of the pact was August 23, 1939.
Miss LENNART. That is about what it would be. The explanation given to the party was that it was for the purpose of expediency, that Russia knew she was next on Hitler's list, and that it was to give her time to'arm. It was not an explanation that I was able to accept. I had such a fear and hatred of nazism, that this was too much of a strange bedfellow combination for me. And so for some time I dropped out of the party completely and went to no meetings. However, when Germany did attack Russia, I felt that perhaps I had been mistaken. I was called by Madelaine Ruthven, who was a functionary 3518 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY of the party at the time, and Madelaine reproached me for my lack of faith in the party, and said again that the aims of the party were no different from the aims of the American people, and it truly seemed so during these war years, and that this was the only place to work in an organized way against Hitlerism, against the things I didn't believe in. I am sorry to say I started going to party meetings again. Even at this point she asked me to rejoin my original group, which I did. Incidentally, I don't ever remember being formally moved from this group. It split up a number of times. People drifted out and drifted in, and so on. I don't remember a formal move to another group. I have not a great deal on the subject of names of people I knew in the party. I met hundreds of people in the years I have been in California, and about many of them it is impossible to remember where I met them and how and under what circumstances, and I know the committee does not want hearsay information. But I would like to give the names of those people I am sure, absolutely sure, I was in party groups with. I cannot identify the period of time, but I have made the best job I can of this.
Mr. TAVENNER. By party groups, are you referring to closed party meetings? 
Miss LENNART. Yes, closed party meetings; exactly. Later on there were none, but when I joined the party, there were many open meetings at which we were always told that it was an open meeting and we were told that there would be people there who were not members of the party and not to assume that they were. That is why I am trying to be very definite about this.
Mr. TAVENNER. So you are differentiating between that type of meetings and closed meetings. 
Miss LENNART. That is right. I am speaking about closed branch meetings. And the people who drifted in and out, whom I saw at various times, were Paul Jarrico-Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Jarrico has been identified by numerous witnesses before the committee as a member of the Communist Party.
Miss LENNART. This is in addition to the people I have already named, of course. George Sklar. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us additional descriptive information regarding him? 
Miss LENNART. Mr. Sklar was a writer in Hollywood. I understood that he had been a playwright before. During this time I knew him he was a screen writer. That is all I know about him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether he is now working as a screen writer? 
Miss LENNART. No, I don't, Mr. Tavenner. I haven't seen Mr. Sklar or heard about him for a number of years. All of my information dates up to a certain point and no further. Martin Berkeley, who has appeared before the committee; Lester Cole; Alvah Bessie; Gordon Kahn; Henry Blankfort; Herbert Biberman; George and Tiba Willner; Albert Maltz; Roland Kibbie. I would like to say that I met Mr. Kibbie very early in my party experience, at the end of 1938 or the beginning of 1939. I have never seen him again and was told way back that he got out shortly after the period I met him. I don't know where he is now or what he is doing. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3519 
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me make a statement for the benefit of the record that Mr. Roland Kibbie has not appeared before the committee but when his name was mentioned in the course of the hearings in California he wired the committee that he would be available and desired to cooperate in this, and has talked with the staff.
Miss LENNART. Just to finish up on names of people I have known, the party functionaries besides Madelaine Ruthven, who I have already mentioned, were John Howard Lawson, who at that time was the head of the section, and a woman named Elizabeth Leech.
Mr. TAVENNER. She is also a party functionary, as I understood it.
Miss LENNART. She was when I knew her, yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Richard Collins?
Miss LENNART. Yes, I knew Richard Collins. But I cannot remember ever having been in a closed party meeting with Mr. Collins. I know that he has appeared before the committee but I still didn't know him then.
Mr. TAVENNER. I may have misunderstood the pronunciation of the first name of Bessie. Did you say Alvah or Albert.
Miss LENNART. Alvah, A-1-v-a-h. Shall I go on?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Miss LENNART. I rejoined the group but I had begun writing at this time which meant working all day and writing at night, as many people do when they get started. So my attendance at that time continued to be erratic. However, in the fall of 1939 I sold my first story and got my first job as a screen writer at MGM at this time, because I was no longer working nights and so on, I started to go to meetings much more regularly, and I would say averaged about once a month. I might say something about the dues system here, if you like. I remember having a good deal of trouble, always, during the entire period I was in the party with two things. One was my attendance and one was dues. In the years before I earned very much money I got myself quite badly in debt. It took me years to catch up. I still have this problem. And so I was always in a jam about paying dues. They have a percentage system. I don't know what the percentage was exactly, but mine, the last year I was in the party, would have brought me up to $100 a month, which I just couldn't do, and said I wouldn't do.
Mr. TAVENNER. What salary were you earning at that time, at the time that you endeavoredMiss LENNART. I started in 1941 at $150 a week at a 1-week guaranty, which didn't guarantee much security, but I have been there ever since. By the time I got out I imagine I was making about five or six hundred a week. I am not really sure of that, but I can easily find this information for you. But I couldn't pay $100 a month because of other commitments that I had, and we settled. I was spoken to about it in terms of dues being a political duty, that this was the way you showed your devotion to the party, but I didn't have that much devotion because I wouldn't pay it. But at any rate we settled. In the early days I paid a flat $25 a month and we settled on a flat $50 and those were my top dues. I didn't pay much else besides that. I did make small contributions from time to time to the party press, the People's World arid their regulars. 3520 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. VELDE. Did you feel that you had no assistance from the Communist organizations, the one that you belonged to, in securing your job?
Miss LENNART. None at all. I wrote a story at night, Wi1Ch took me 6 months to write, not a very long story because I oiy had a couple of working hours at night. I wrote it with somebody, I took it to an agent, peddled it to several agents, and the first few didn't want it, and it didn't sell for about 6 months and then suddenly, when I least expected, it sold overnight and I was put to work as a screen writer. I had never written a screen play, but the years I had held script had taught me about the technical side of it so I was able to. But there was no connection between the two at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was your agent at the time you sold the first one?
Miss LENNART. Harold Hecht, who is not a party member to the best of my knowledge. He was with the Nat Goldstone Agency. He left the agency, I think, to go into another agency, and I stayed on with
Mr. Goldstone and then later with George Willner, who joined the agency. I was with the agency before Mr. Willner came on as an assistant.
Mr. TAVENNER. What Communist Party functionaries collected your dues, or chided you about the amount of your dues?
Miss LENNART. Elizabeth Leech. At the beginning Madelaine Ruthven and then later on Elizabeth Leech. The dues were collected usually at meetings. The office of treasurer was passed around. It was an unpopular office. Somebody would have it one time and somebody else the next. But since I missed so many, I usually paid mine to Elizabeth Leech.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever a treasurer of the organization ?
Miss LENNART. Not so far as I remember. I never held any office in the party so far as I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember learning anything about the dues paid by other members of your group ?
Miss LENNART. No. I never remembered this being discussed openly in the party except in terms of the percentage, and what the amount should be.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I would like to go back to this point and ask you a question which occurred to me earlier. When you spoke of the work that was being done by many of the Communist Party members of your group, with the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, was that league considered by the Communist Party members as a mass organization to be infiltrated and controlled or influenced by the Communist Party
Miss LENNART Well, when people were assigned to mass organization work they spoke of the Anti-Nazi League, so I assumed then, and do now, that they regarded it certainly as an organization to work through, and to influence, yes.
Mr. TA. ENNER. Did ou' ever do any work in recruiting others to membership?
Miss LENN xRT. No, I never recruited anybody into the Communist Party. I never sold a subscription to the People's World, although I contributed money to it. I wa the recipient of two gift subscriptions mynsilf. This was a popular method of recruiting, to send somebody COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3521 a three-month subscription to the People's World, somebody you thought should be in the party. I got two myself, anonymously, but I never sold any. Do have some questions?
Mr.' VENNER. How long did you remain a member of the Communist Party ?
Miss LENNART. May I talk about this a little, because there wasn't a definite date, and I don't want to give a false impression.
Mr. TAVENNER. You may cover it any way you like.
Miss LENNART. From 1941 until 1944, 1 considered myself a member of the party, and am not trying to minimize it. Their records, I think, will show that I was strictly a rank-and-file member. I didn't hold any office, I didn't work in any mass organization. I have never been a member of any mass organization, to my knowledge. I didn't recruit anyone else. I did contribute money, small amounts of money, to these things. I was not a member of the party fraction of writers in the Screen Writers' Guild. I certainly talked freely enough, at the studio and socially, about what was going on, but the only political activity I had was as a member of the Screen Writers' Guild, and that was since I was not in the fraction it was not directed activity. When the party declared itself an association and gave up all talk of being a revolutionary party, I wasn't surprised because in relation to the people I knew, the idea that this was a revolutionary group, this seemed nonsense, considering the people I knew, and it still seemed to me so. However, even though I was considered a passive member from 1941 to 1944, I never asked myself what I was doing in it at all. And that seems fantastic to me now, but I think I can explain it. I think I joined for good motives but my joining was unexamined, uncritical and emotional and something to regret. However, once I got in, I found a number of people who seemed to be there for the same reason I was, for nothing more vicious than that. You must remember that my knowledge of people was quite limited, I did not know the really active people in the party, and some of the information that has been divulged at other hearings of this committee has been startling to me, too. To me, and to many others, it was a place to gather to talk about what was going on around us, who was writing and what, what we could do about things that seemed unjust. But the atmosphere in the party is a strictly hot-house atmosphere. You all read the same things, you talk about the same things, you hear nothing but one point of view. You don't realize this when you are in. You don't realize you have blinders on. But you get so if somebody outside says something that doesn't fit-in, you feel that they are being dupes, not you, you see. You feel that they are being influenced by a corrupt press. You don't challenge the press in the party. I may be doing injustice to people who examine things more carefully than I did, but this was certainly true of me and many people like me who were basically nonpolitical people. As individuals, a great many people were well meaning and hard working without malice to anybody, but I know now that I had absolutely no right even from a Communist point of view to be where I was, because I had no understanding of what that might imply. I did begin to realize it in 1944, when I met the man I later married, who was very strongly anti-Communist. He didfi't ask me to leave the 21546-52-pt. 8-6 3522 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY party, I told him about my membership very soon after I met him, because I knew it was going to be something important to him. He didn't ask me to leave the party or tell me to. I am very glad he didn't, I am glad I made the decision on my own. But he did ask me a lot of questions about why I was in, and there were questions I couldn't answer to my own satisfaction. He asked me how much Marxist literature I had read, and "very little" had to be the answer. He asked me how much I knew about the actual set-up of the party itself, who the actual leadership was, where the money came from and mostly for what purpose it was used, and I didn't know. I didn't have any secrets to hide, I just didn't know. But I was in an organization about which I didn't know anything. He asked me things in terms of my attitude about this country, and did I have what the Communists call the long range point of view, which is that it doesn't matter what happens in a specific country sometimes, that is, at a specific time, that a longer range point of view about the whole world is what is important. I have never been able to have such a long range point of view. I care very specifically about what happens to the country I live in and the people I know. He asked if I believed in the necessity of violent overthrow of any government to change that government. I said no, but I thought on very strong ground here, because the party was an association at this time, and I said neither did the party. My fiance was very skeptical about it, he was a stevedore officer in the Army, and met people in different parts of the country, and including the water front, and he said from what I told him the party here in Hollywood sounded like a group of very nice people who had not the faintest idea about what the Communist Party was like. Now, after all these years, and after reading what people who were more active than I experienced, I believe he was right, and that the group I was in certainly was a very special group organized largely for the purpose of raising money and names. And even at that time, back in 1944, when it was still an association, this atmosphere of a hot-house started to weave a spell for me. I found myself beginning to question who was the leadership, who chose them, how much was this a democratic organization.
Mr. WALTER. Who was the leadership at the time you started wondering who selected the leadership?
Miss LENNART. Do you mean of a specific section I was in?
Mr. WALTER. Yes.
Miss LENNART. John Howard Lawson and Madelaine Ruthven at the beginning, and then later on Madelaine Ruthven seemed to drop out of the picture.
Mr. WALTER. Who?
Miss LENNART. Madelaine Ruthven seemed to drop out of the picture and there was just Mr. Lawson. But what I just said, I was thinking not so much of the leadership of the Hollywood section, but 1 realized that I knew nothing about the party throughout try, and that plainly what we were doing in Hollywood the counmust have some connection with this, and of this I knew nothing.
Mr. WALTER. Why do you say plainly? What was there that occurred that led youi to that conclusion? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3523 
Miss LENNART. What appeared eventually that led me to this con- clusion, Congressman, was the question of the Duclos letter, in 1945, where suddenly it having been in association the day before which did not believe in the violent overthrow of the Government but believed in the very gradual socialization of the country, suddenly it was again the violent overthrow of the Government. And this was not by an American, but by a man in another country, who I did not believe could know what our problems were here and what the American people would want.
Mr. WALTER. Then it was the Duclos letter that led you to a realiza- tion that you were a party to a conspiracy, an international conspiracy ?
Miss LENNART. It certainly made me question whether I might not be exactly in that position and the minute I began to question, I left.
Mr. VELDE. Did I misunderstand you? I thought you said you left the party in 1944.
Miss LENNART. No; I am sorry I was confusing on that point. I wanted to say in 1944, I started a kind of trickling away from the party, and all of my questions arose through this period, and I did not make, was not able to make, an overnight decision on it. My attendance became more and more erratic, my questions were more and more constant, and the Duclos letter, in 1945, and what happened in the party then, made the final decision for me. The people in my group and I myself questioned this letter. We were told that it had been discussed throughout the country and that the majority decision had been that the letter was correct, and that the party would be reorganized, but with my new skepticism I said, "Who said it has been discussed throughout the country."
Mr. VELDE. There was quite a lot of dissension among the party members, I presume, over the Duclos letter?
Miss LENNART. Yes; there was a great deal, and I believe a great many people left at this time, for this reason. I felt that this was an order that had been introduced for the purpose of discussion. It seemed to me to be an order, and the discussion didn't make any difference.
Mr. WALTER. Who introduced the letter as a subject for discussion?
Miss LENNART. It was introduced in the group. I don't remember the specific person, one of the people I have mentioned. But we were told it was introduced simultaneously in all groups throughout the country.
Mr. WALTER. Who told you that? 
Miss LENNART. Again, somebody in the group. I seem to remember vaguely that Alvah Bessie had introduced the subject for discussion, but I couldn't swear to that, Congressman, because I don't remember specifically.
Mr. WALTER. Wasn't it at that time suggested to you that the time had arrived for you to choose sides, you were either for America or for this international conspiracy ?
Miss LENNART. I could just say that I chose sides, I left.
Mr. WALTER. Wasn't it indicated to you at that time that it arrived, that all of the Communists had to stand up and be counted ?
Miss LENNART. I think that is so, yes. At any rate, the meeting about the Duclos letter was the last meeting that I attended. I got 3524 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY married in August 1946, but before I got married I had a long talk with my fiance about it, and agreed, because I wanted to, that I would never again consider myself a Communist, go to a Communist meeting, or engage in any activities which I knew were Communist led, and I never have.
Mr. WOOD. When did your contributions to the party cease ?
Miss LENNART. My contributions stopped when I stopped going to meetings, which was in 1945.
Mr. VELDE. Did you do anything else of a positive nature to dis- associate yourself from the party, like writing a letter ?
Miss LENNART. No; I was called and asked if I was coming to any more meetings, and this is the name-I had forgotten this call, incidentally, I was called by a man named-I have never met him or seen him. It was Stach or Stapp, I don't know which his name is.
Mr. TAVENNER. John Stapp ?
Miss LENNART. That, I am almost sure, is the name. He telephoned to ask if I would plan to come to any more meetings, and I said "No."
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you learn that he was the functionary of the Communist Party in Los Angeles?
Miss LENNART. I had heard his name as being-no, I can't say in Los Angeles, but I heard he was a functionary of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he ask you for any reasons why you had stopped attending the party meetings?
Miss LENNART. No; but I think these reasons were well known in my group. It is not a policy in the party, especially for a woman, if it is a woman who has been a Communist, if she makes a marriage, mixed marriage to somebody who is not a Communist, it is generally accepted-it isn't a rule or anything-but I suppose for security reasons it is just expected that you probably will want to leave, and I think this is why I got no pressure except for this question. I think that my increasing resistance at meetings and the decreasing number of meetings I went to must have made this quite clear before I actually stopped completely.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your activity in the Screen Writers' Guild, after you withdrew from the Communist Party in 1945? 
Miss LENNART. My period of activity in the guild, of any real ac- tivity in the guild, was after-I must say 1946, is the date I would give as the formal end. I had no activity in 1945, but 1946 was when I really considered that the break was final. I was more active in the guild after I was out of the Communist Party than I had ever been before. I think this was largely because I began to be a little more established in my profession. I was for a year alternate on the board of directors of the guild. I was for a year on the editorial board of the guild magazine Screen Writer, and I was elected not by the guild but the writers of my studio as shop steward there for a year. That is normally pretty much a bookkeeping job. You keep track of assignments, credits, and so on. But during the year I was shop steward there was a very confusing jurisdictional strike. At the guild request I called a meeting of writers on the lot to decide whether we would go through the picket lines or not. We did go through the picket lines which was the guild decision, I believe, at the time. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD -MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3525 But those all were activities for the guild and they had no connection with the Communist Party because I no longer had any connection with the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have information that you were a signer of the Albert Maltz nominating petition in the Screen Writers' Guild in 1949.
Miss LENNART. Yes. I was going to go on to say that I had agreed that I would never again engage in any activity that I believed was Communist led after 1946. The last and only, the only, activity that could be called political activity that I was involved in since that time was in connection with the Hollywood 10. I did more than sign a petition for Albert Maltz. I signed an amicus curiae brief. I don't remember who asked me to sign the brief, which I did sign, but I know it wasn't a Communist for a very good reason. I was extremely nervous by that time about my political past, and it was obvious that a great deal of trouble was coming in the future, and I was trying very hard to be involved in nothing. I would have been afraid of being involved in anything that was Communist led. It was explained to me that the brief was on a constitutional question, that it did not mean that you felt the 10 were right or wrong, but that you were asking the Supreme Court to review the case. I had a reason for this, and I hope, and I still have it. I hoped that a review of the case would be that the Supreme Court would declare the Communist Party an illegal party. It seemed to me the only chance for people, but I was very concerned about my family and myself. I felt that if the party were made illegal as of a certain date, people could freely stand up and say "We joined this when it was legal, now it isn't. We want no part of it." And then get out. Those that wanted to stay in then knew consciously and deliberately that they were involved in an illegal organization and they could take whatever was coming to them. I did not know all of the 10, but I understood, rightly or wrongly, that some of them had been in but were out, and that some had not been in. And I identified myself with what was happening to them. I felt that it would very likely happen to me. To the best of my belief, on this problem of the 10, I was involved in activity, but this was the last conscious political activity I have ever taken. In terms of Albert Maltz, this, Mr. Tavenner, was not a petition to elect Mr. Maltz to the board of directors of the guild, but simply to allow him to be a candidate. I know who asked me to sign this. It was somebody where the petition circled the writers' table at lunch time. It was given to me by a totally non-Communist, or nonprogressive even, and there were a lot of signatures on it, and I felt if a number of people wanted this guy to run as a candidate, there was no reason for him not to run. This did not mean that the guild did elect him. I did not vote in that election or any election since then because I have always felt until my own situation was cleared up I make suspect any side I am on.
Mr. WALTER. Let us see if we have this straight. You signed a nominating petition after Maltz had been convicted?
Miss LENNART. Yes, I did, this was in 1949. 
Mr. WALTER. Do you reconcile that with the statement you made with respect to your signing of the petition amicus curia?
Miss LENNART. The petition for Maltz was not given to me by a Communist or even a Communist sympathizer. 3526 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WALTER. But you knew that he was a Communist, did you not?
Miss LENNART. I knew that he had been in contempt of Congress, and I assumed-No, I am sorry. What am I saying. I knew definitely well Maltz was; yes. But I felt that he had been in prison, he had done this, and I didn't-this was for an office in the Screen Writers' Guild which would not put him on the board but give people the chance to elect him if they wanted to. On the other hand, I would like to say generally, more than anything else in the past weeks when I have been looking back over my own past and over my own records, the thing I reproach myself with more bitterly than anything else is the irresponsibility that I and perhaps many other people have shown in the things we lent our names to, the things we gave money to, and the things we talked for, without ever sitting down to figure out what exactly we were doing and what connection it had with the other things.
Mr. WALTER. Of course, that is a very gross understatement. But I still haven't my mind straight on why, if you wanted an opportunity to escape, as it were, through a decision of the Supreme Court, you were willing subsequently to place a man in a position, knowing that he was a member of the Communist Party.
Miss LENNART. Well, Congressman, there seems to me always to be a contradiction in this. If the guild allows a man to be a member, knowing he is a Communist, and accepts his dues, it seemed to me at that time-Mr. WALTER. But you were a member of the guild, were you not?
Miss LENNART. Yes.
Mr. WALTER. Did you want a man of that sort to speak for you?
Miss LENNART. I didn't vote for him for this reason. But I thought other people wanted him to run, and I-Mr. WOOD. You mean you signed a petition permitting him to be a candidate?
Miss LENNART. To be a candidate.
Mr. WOOD. And then voted against him in the election ?
Miss LENNART. I didn't vote at all in the election. But I would not have voted for him.
Mr. WOOD. It should also be borne in mind, that a conviction of the Hollywood 10 was not for being members of the Communist Party. You can t prosecute for that. But for refusing to do exactly what you are doing, that is, answer questions pertinent to the inquiry of the committee.
Miss LENNART. Yes, sir, I understand that. Well, that brings us up to Mr. Wheeler's visit in 1951, and I had said I would like to talk on why I told him a year ago that I did not think, if I were subpenaed, I would give names and why I obviously have changed my opinion on this today. I would like to say why I didn't want to give them a year ago. In the years since I have been married, my life has changed a great deal. I no longer saw the people I had once known. I have lost track of most of them. The whole subject of the party was one I kept pretty closed. I knew that my convictions had changed. I felt that my conscience was clear, that I was doing nothing that could hurt this country in any way. I thought it was more than likely that many of the people I had known once had changed as much as I had, and I couldn't bring myself to damage anyone in a way that I felt I was COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3527 going to be damaged because I thought that when I testified, that career I had worked hard at for a long time would be over. I was also in the third month of a pregnancy. I was emotionally not too stable, and I just couldn't get myself to do it.
Mr. WOOD. What made you believe that ? Do you know of any person who had been called to testify before an authorized body of people or a committee of Congress with reference to party affiliation in the Communist movement, who has done so, freely, honestly, who has been penalized on account of it, with reference to their position?
Miss LENNART. No, I do not, since that time. But Congressman, may I say that this was before the hearings. There was an awful lot of talk in town. Nobody knew what was going to happen, you know, and that feeling would be that if one spoke honestly and openly you would not be an outcast. But my meeting with Mr. Wheeler was before I knew this and I was in quite a turmoil about it. I must confess that after my meeting with Mr. Wheeler I relaxed a little about the whole matter. I live in comparative isolation from the political zone in Hollywood and from the social zone. We live quite a bit out of town, and between working and bringing up my children and running my house, I have another child besides the new one, I don't get around much. I have lost touch with what was going on. I felt that the past was over for me. I had told Mr. Wheeler I had been in the party, I was out of the party, he seemed to believe me, and so on. In the last months, however, since the birth of my second child, who was ill after she was born and that kept me busy for a while, I started working at the studio again. In this past year I worked at the studio very little and people didn't talk to me much about what was going on, probably because I hadn't been mentioned. I heard rumors that I heard for the first time that were very shocking to me and horrifying to me. This one I didn't hear directly, but I was told that it was commonly supposed that the reason I was still able to work even though I had been mentioned at the last hearings last year was that I had made a deal with someone, and this was pretty revolting for me and for this committee, too, I felt. The other rumor, this opposing rumor was that I was the last active, powerful Communist in Hollywood, that for some reason I was such a powerful Communist I couldn't be touched. This rumor was appalling to me, too.
Mr. WOOD. I think it appropriate at this point to let the record be perfectly clear that there has never been any deal entered into by this committee or any member of the committee, so far as I know, or, any member of its staff.
Miss LENNART. I don't consider the committee's consideration for a woman who is busy having a child a deal. I call it something I am grateful for. But it is pretty horrifying to hear that I alone was working because I possibly had paid out a great deal of money, and you can imagine this was a very upsetting thing to hear. Besides that, I find now something else I didn't know: that I am a source of embarrassment to many of our friends who are not and have never been Communists, and it has become a very brave thing to be a friend of mine now, with the rumors going on. Besides that, I have three children. I have two of my own and I have a stepson I have raised who is going to college this fall. I don't think it is fair that they grow up under a cloud which is none of their doing and which 3528 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY there is no reason for today, since I have no brief or affiliation in this organization. I am working in a field which I love, and which has been very good to me. I realize now that there is a great deal of public opinion on this point, and that public opinion is important to the industry for which I work; rightly so. If that public opinion wants to know where I stand and what I do aside from the pictures I write, I think they have a right to know and I have to answer them. This is what changed my mind about coming here today. I can try to sum up for myself very quickly. I joined the Communist Party without the critical examination of it which I should have made. (Representative Harold H. Velde left the room at this point.)
Miss LENNART. I believe I was too young and too politically ignorant. I stayed in it as long as I felt certain I was doing nothing wrong. When I was no longer certain, when I realized I didn't understand the nature of communism or the party, sufficiently to be sure of the relationship of what I was doing to a possibly larger plan, I got out. I paid a great deal in worry and anxiety and unhappiness from the time I was in, and I am glad I got out when I did. I wish it was sooner. I am very grateful to set the record straight.
Mr. WOOD. It is quite understandable to me, in the period of which you speak, that a great many people in America were confused, when people became a little skeptical. I understand why people might cast around for some avenue making it a better place to live in.
Miss LENNART. Congressman, on this point, I believe that when I was looking around, passing around, had some other doors opened to me I would have taken them. But I think it was a very typical approach of the Communist Party to be, for its people to be, very friendly and very kind, especially to young people. I think this is largely why I took this particular way.
Mr. Woon. But, of course, I have never become convinced that communism furnished even a remote avenue for the betterment of this country. On the contrary, it would be a very sad day to have that come down here. I have come to the realization that the people who are in important fields as you are, entertainment, should come forward and give us the benefit of your experience with it. It is of gratification to me and to all of the American people. I have previously expressed myself in hearings both public and private that people who have that much courage, that much regard for their community and family, who will come forward and cooperate with this committee, that no postscripts, economically, will be levied against them. I personally am very grateful to you for coming here. Have you any further questions, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. There is just one point, Mr. Chairman, that I though I would like to discuss. The witness said that she felt that so long as she was doing no harm in the Communist Party, or words to that effect, that there was nothing so objectionable to her being a member. That was the sense that I understood her to say. But actually, when you look back upon your experience, don't you agree that a person cannot be a member of the Communist Party without doing harm, because by being a member you are lending your moral assistance and your aid to those of the Communist Party who are out, unquestionably, to do harm. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Miss LENNART. I most certainly believe that now. 3529 Most certainly. I believe with you. You can't be as irresponsible as to think that what you specifically are doing is all there is to it. You have to see how this ties in with what other people are doing, and you have to consider yourself a party to it, and that is why I did not want to be in it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you attended any Communist Party meeting since this time you state you withdrew from the party in the latter part of 1945 or 1946 ?
Miss LENNART. August 1946 would be a definite day. No, I have not, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your withdrawal has been full and complete?
Miss LENNART. Full and complete, and permanent and final.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. 
Mr. WOOD. With no further questions, the committee wishes to thank you for your presence here, and you will be excused. Counsel, will you call the next witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Stanley Roberts. 
Mr. WOOD. Do you solemnly swear that the evidence which you shall give the subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. ROBERTS. I do. TESTIMONY OF STANLEY ROBERTS
