Mr. BLANKFORT. Thank you very much, Judge Wood.
Mr. NEUSOM. Thank you.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have here two digests of Senator Kefauver, and I would like to make a statement at this time here.
Mr. WOOD. You are here for the purpose of answering questions. If you have a statement that you would like to file with the committee, we will be glad to accept it.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have this statement, which includes two resolutions of Senator Kefauver, which is drawn up--Mr. WooD. Submit it, sir.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I would like to have it read in the record, if I might.
Mr. WooD. Would you just be patient. File your statement with the clerk. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are Mr. Henry Blankfort, I believe ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I am Mr. Henry Blankfort, and I have also used the pen names of Henry Bancroft and Jan Jeffries.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Blankfort ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I was born in New York City on Christmas Day, 1906. That is December 25.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee, please, in a general way, your educational preparation ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. My formal education was rather brief. It was sim- ply elementary and high school in the New York City schools. My informal education, however, began when I realized the responsibility of every American to think clearly and independently and to seek the truth; and no intimidation will steer me from this course.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee, please, what your employment record has been.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Since I have been in Hollywood, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. Since the completion of your educational work.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, when I left high school I was employed for a while by the J. Walter Thompson Co., an advertising agency in New York City. I started as an office boy there and left as a junior executive. After that I went into business for myself and did sales and promotional work. I operated a chain store and then went in the manufacture of steel products. Then subsequently I came to Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since being in Hollywood how have you been em- ployed ? 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have been employed as a screen writer and, for a small period, as an associate producer.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you an associate producer?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have to think of some of these dates. I never realized that I would have to keep a dossier on myself so I willMr. TAVENNER. I am not requesting that you be that exact in your statement, but just give us a generalMr. BLANKFORT. I think that I became an associate producer at Universal Films about 19-shortly before the end of the war. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you continue to work with a producer? IN MOTION-PICTURIE INDUSTRY 1499 
Mr. BLANKFOiT. I was under contract there for 1 year. I am curi- COMMUNISM ous, Mr. Tavenner, if these questions lead up to the control of content of film, which one of your members, a member of this committee, has already expressed on the air that they have done something in this regard, and will the committee like me to put into the record
Mr. WOOD. It would be most helpful if you will confine your answers to the questions.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Perhaps to the committee but not to the American people. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee, I am certain, would be very glad to have the benefit of any knowledge you may have as to the control of content of film.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, if this is the question, I would like to answer it, sir. Mr. Velde, on the air, I believe in one of these Meet the Press programs, when asked by the reporters whether or not he felt that this committee had influenced content in film, remembering it as clearly as I can, here is what Mr. Velde saidMr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. I am not asking you-Mr. BLANKFORT. You have asked me, sir, and I would like to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. I have asked you what you know, if anything, regarding efforts made to control the content of films and I will ask you to confine yourself to your answer.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, I will do that. Knowledge comes to me through many sources, of course, and I would like to think that the words of a member of this committee have some worth in giving me knowledge. Mr. Velde on the air said that even though he did not think, perhaps, that this committee did influence films, but he ventures to say that there will be less films now on racial problems, and I don't think he meant Santa Anita or Hollywood Park.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you answer my question.
Mr. BLANKFORT. What is your question, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't think that you were addressing yourself to the question. 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Oh, your question is, What do I know about the control of content of film ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. The question is, What information do you have regarding any effort made in the industry to control the content of films in connection with the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I refuse to answer any question in relation to the Communist Party on the basis of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have such information ? (Witness confers with counsel.) 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to answer that part of the question which refers to the Communist Party on the basis of the fifth amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the principal films which you produced while a producer ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I say this shamefacedly, because I was an associate producer doing B pictures, and I have developed a kind of psychological block, hoping to forget the titles, but I was associate producer on a film called Easy to Look At, and another thing called the Crimson Canary and, believe me, the title "Crimson" had nothing political in it. As a matter of fact, the original title was to be Hear That Trumpet Talk, but it seems that the New York office of Universal had sold a 1500 INDUSTRY picture called Crimson Canary and so, therefore, they put the title of Crimson Canary on the picture.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Blankfort, I would like to ask you a few questions regarding your possible association with certain organizations which have. from time to time, been cited by the Attorney General of the United States, or this committee, as being of a subversive character or as being Communist.
Mr. BLANKFORT. This is your privilege, and while you are looking this up, Mr. Tavenner, as long as you brought up the lists cited by the Attorney General, I would like to point out that it is public knowledge that none of these organizations were entitled to a hearing. It is public knowledge that these were cited by the opinion of the Attorney General himself, and also, I believe, by the California Committee on Un-American Activities whose late chairman, Mr. Tenney, has now decided to try to legalize ghettos and segregation with another amendment to the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a ballot for election of officers for the Hollywood Democratic Committee, dated July 26, 1944. The name of Henry Blankfort appears as a candidate on this ballot for the position of executive board member. Were you a candidate for the executive board member ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I must refuse-I will refuse to answer this question on the grounds of the fifth amendment, because to answer this, in a sense, might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the Hollywood Democratic Committee an outgrowth of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, to your knowledge?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I must decline to answer this question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVE NNER. Did the Hollywood Democratic Committee become the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions in July of 1943 ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I must decline to answer this questionMr. TAVENNER. 1945.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy on the letterhead of the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions, dated December 10, 1946, and call your attention to the bottom of the letter where the members of the executive council are listed. I believe the name Henry Blankfort appears there. Were you a member of the executive councilMr. BLANKFORT. I must decline to answer this.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. Just a moment. Were you a member of the executive council of the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee on the Arts, Sciences, and Professions as indicated by that letterhead ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I do decline to answer this question on the basis of the fifth amendment, and I would like to added at this time that I believe this committee's effort is to stifle all political opposition. 
Mr. TAVE.NNER. Mr. Blankfort, the committee has information that on February 5, 1945, you met in the home of Richard Collins with certain other individuals to discuss the financial situation of the Communist Party in the motion-picture industry. Do you recall having attended such a meeting ?  INDUSTRY 1501 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the ground of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend a meeting on July 7, 1945, at the home of Albert Maltz to discuss the Duclos letter, which most people are familiar with at this time as being the document which brought about the overthrow of Earl Browder as head of the Communist Party in the United States ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend other meetings at other places where the Duclos letter was discussed ? 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to answer that other question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that at one time you were the educational director of branch H of the northwest section -of the Los Angeles County Communist Party in, I believe, about the year 1943. Is that information correct?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds. That is why I had hoped that this committee would have given me permission to read Senator Kefauver's resolutions in relation to the activities of such legislative committees.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that you were transferred as a member of Halden Club of the Los Angeles County Communist Party, or rather that you were transferred to that club from what was known as the Hollywood Cultural Club in January of 1947. Were you ever a member of either of those clubs of the Communist Party
Mr. BLANKFORT. I will decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information that you held 1946 Communist Party book No. 35320. Did you hold that book, or any book designating or indicating membership in the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dmytryk appeared as a witness before this committee on April 25, 1951, and during the course of his testimony he made this statement, which I quote: Then there was another group which met for the purpose, I think, of some sort of affair that had to do with the fight against anti-Negro prejudice. This was composed of small committees, as it were, of several cells, several groups, rather neighborhood groups throughout the town. Most of them I didn't know. I knew just a few from Hollywood. The meeting was held at Ben Margolis' house and Mr. Margolis was present, and Mr. Henry Blankfort was present, and a man named George Pepper. Do you recall that meeting ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I must decline to answer that question, sir, on the basis of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Do you have any questions, Mr. Walter ?
Mr. WALTER. Yes.
Mr. Blankfort, you stated that this committee has as its purpose the stifling of all political opposition. Did you mean by that that this 1 See: Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry-Part 2, p. 424. 1502 committee has as its purpose the elimination of the Communist Party as opposition to our form of government?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I believe that this committee, either unwittingly or not, is falling into the trap of committees of this sort in the past, which feeling a certain amount of power attempts to destroy all political opposition by creating such an atmosphere of fear in the country. Today we find that Americans fear to sign the Declaration of Independence lest they be called Communist. Here is an answer of Al Capp, one of the leading comic illustrators of our day, and a humorist, mind you, who when asked in Pageant magazine-Do you think something is happening to our talent for self-criticism and selfridicule? And here is what Al Capp says, Happening? Hell it's already happened. It is not safe to laugh at ourselves any more. I think we are losing one of our most precious freedoms, the freedom to laugh at ourselves. I submit.this for the record, too, and I accuse this committee of creating that atmosphere. Here is an article-Mr. WALTER. Never mind about that.
Mr. BLANKFORT. YOU asked me a question, sir.
Mr. WALTER. I will appreciate if you answer my questions. Of course, Al Capp isn't an authority on anything, he is just a humorist, as you said.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Al Capp is a humorist. Yesterday I heard a comment that this committee were authorities on humor. 
Mr. WALTER. We happen to know, Mr. Blankfort, a great deal about you. We didn't subpena you to appear before this committee for the purpose of embarrassing you or try you for anything.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Then I suggest you read Senator Kefauver's resolutions.
Mr. WALTER. Yes. And we know Senator Kefauver.
Mr. BLANKFORT. And he knows you.
Mr. WALTER. Very well. He ought to. I served on the same com- mittee with him for a great many years. 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Perhaps that is why he has written these resolu- tions. 
Mr. WALTER. What I would like to know is this: Don't you feel in view of the fact that we now know what communism is, that as a result of the events that have occurred in recent months we are aware of the dangers of this international conspiracy, that as one who has enjoyed the blessings of our form of Government you might want to aid us in our work, because we know that you were a Communist, we know that you had a Communist card, we know of your activities in the Communist Party and we feel that because of your experience and the knowledge gained by your association with this subversive movement that you can perhaps aid the American people in determining whether or not this Communist Party ought to be made illegal? You might indicate to us courses of procedure that would enable us to recommend legislation. Why don't you tell us what you know of the operations of the Communist Party?  1503 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to enter into this discussion with the eminent Congressman, sir. This is a question of entrapment and it is an attempt to tear down my privileges under the fifth amendment. You are not fair in asking this question.
Mr. WALTER. I assure you it is not the purpose of anybody to entrap you.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, it is, sir. This is my privilege to think this.
Mr. JACKSON. I would suggest that the witness be called to order.
Mr. WALTER. Let him go. This is not an easy thing. I feel that the witness ought to be given a certain latitude. We were hopeful when you were selected as a witness to testify that because of your vast experience you would be willing as an American citizen to aid this committee instead of taking shelter in the kind of a document that doesn't exist anywhere particularly in the iron curtain countries. Why don't you come clean and tell us what you know about it?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to enter in this discussion with the eminent Congressman.
Mr. WALTER. That's all.
Mr. BLANKFORT. However, I do hope that this committee takes as much interest in the people of the United States as they do in the people of the Soviet Union and that has a chairman that votes against the poll tax.
Mr. WooD. You declined to answer the questions, sir?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I did, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. No questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Blankfort, have you ever served in the Armed Forces of the United States?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have not, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you so serve if required ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I believe that the Constitution and the Bill of Rights of our country are the inherent guards against depredations which must be protected at all costs and I will defend them against any foreign or external enemies.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you take an oath of loyaltyMr. BLANKFORT. Or internal enemies. 
Mr. JACKSON. Would you take an oath of loyalty to the United States and to the Constitution as a condition of employment?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I believe, sir, that when a man's daily life and daily actions are those of a good American, not by words alone but by deeds, that for people to have to reemphasize their loyalty, as they did in Germany, as they did in Italy, and as this committee is attempting to have not loyalty to the people but loyalty to the committee, and if you believe that this is not so I would like to read you a statement of Karl Mundt, a former member of this committee.
Mr. WooD. You were asked a simple question.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I decline to answer that question on the basis of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. WOOD. Very well.
Mr. JACKSON. I would advise you, Mr. Blankfort, that very few good Americans whose records are unimpeachable have been called 1504 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY before this committee. Have you traveled abroad within the past 10 years ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have been to the kind-do you mean a foreign country ? 
Mr. JACKSON. Yes.
Mr. BLANKFORT. The. foreign country that belongs to California, Tijuana, Ensenada, and Rosarita Beach.
Mr. JACKSON. You have not traveled abroad to Europe?
Mr. BLANKFORT. NO; I haven't. 
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever subscribed to the Chicago Tribune?
Mr..BLANKFORT. I have read the Chicago Tribune. As a matter of fact., I read about 30 or 40 newspapers weekly.
Mr. JACKSON. Do those newspapers include the Communist Daily Worker?
Mr. BLANKFORT. In 1857, Mr. Jackson, a man was convicted for 10 yearsMr. JACKSON. I have asked you a question. 
Mr. BLANKFORT. And I am going to answer it.
Mr. JACKSON. You are going to answer the question "Yes" or "No." I don't want a speech. I have heard all the speeches that you can possibly deliver.
Mr. BLANKFORT. They have not had much effect upon you.
Mr. JACKSON. They have not had much effect upon the American people.
Mr. WOOD. Gentlemen, will you please just confine your answersMr. BLANKFORT. I will refuse to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. JACKSON. If you saw an act of sabotage being committed by a Communist and you had knowledge of it, would you report it to the Federal officials of this country or the FBI or the United States marshal?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I would even report an act of sabotage if I saw you commit it.
Mr. JACKSON. You are very unlikely to see me commit it. Would you so report an act of sabotage which you saw being committed by a member of the Communist Party to the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the United States Marshal?
Mr. BLANKFORT. This is a question of entrapment. I will not answer any question having to do with the Communist Party on the grounds of the fifth amendment. If the Congressman will be honest and simplify the question and say will I report an act of sabotage no matter who will do it, I will say "Yes, I will report an act of sabotage no matter who will do it."
Mr. JACKSON. Would you report an act of sabotage being committed by a member of the Communist Party? That is the question.
Mr. BLANKFORT. This is again, I say, a question of entrapment and I would refuse to answer it on the grounds of the fifth amendment.. I said I will report an act of sabotage committed by anybody if I do see it.
Mr. JACKSON. I want the record to show that the witness refuses to answer "Yes" or "No" as to the question asked.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I refuse to answer this question on the grounds of the fifth amendment.  
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Blankfort, it is my 1505 ersonal opinion, that you have been a member of the Communist Party as indicated by the evidence in possession of this committee, and that in my personal opinion the menace that you claim is posed by this committee is not one-tenth as vital, not one-tenth as dangerous to the people of the United States of America and to the freemen everywhere as your continued intransigence in your support of Communist pholisophy.
Mr. BLANKFORT. When the American people fear not to sign the Declaration of Independence then I will say that this committee no longer is potent.
Mr. JACKSON. That's all.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter, do you have any questions?
Mr. POTrER. No questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Counsel, any further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir.
Mr. WooD. Any reason why the witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance that you know of?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir.
Mr. WOOD. So ordered.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Thank you very much for permitting me to express some of my thoughts.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Howland Chamberlin.
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn, sir. You do solemnly swear that the evidence you will give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I do. 
Mr. WooD. Are you represented here by counsel?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. Yes, I am.
Mr. WooD. Will counsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. MARGOLIS. My name is Ben Margolis, Los Angeles, Calif. TESTIMONY OF HOWLAND CHAMBERLIN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, BEN MARGOLIS
