Mr. CHAMBERLIN. Before I answer the questions as directed to me by Mr. Tavenner, I make a request to read a statement which I think is pertinent to my appearance before this committee.
Mr. WooD. Your counsel is already familiar with the rules of this committee. If you have a statement you would like to submit to the committee in advance of your testimony we will be glad to receive it, sir. But reading of statements is not permitted.
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I understand the answer to this question, Mr. Chairman, but I would like to point out that in sitting in the sessions yesterday there were statements read by witnesses where there was no objection made and I would like to have equal treatment. 
Mr. WOOD. There are no statements in advance of testimony read by any witness. If you desire to submit a statement we would be glad to accept it and have it in the record. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what is your name, please, sir? 
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I lm proud of my American heritage and my Mayflower ancestry. My name is Howland Chamberlin. 1506 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WOOD. It would expedite the work of the committee consider- ably if you would refrain from making unnecessary remarks and answer the questions directly that are asked you, and the committee will be very appreciative if you will do that.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Chamberlin?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I was born on August 2, 1911, in New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your educational training?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. My educational training has been in the public and elementary and high schools both in New York City and California. After completion of high school I entered a 2-year course in a school of the theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation ?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. My present occupation is an actor, and I find it deeply repugnant and profoundly un-American to be smeared, blacklisted, and strangled economically by my presence before this com- mittee.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Chamberlin, your presence before this committee is the best form that I know of for you to relieve yourself of any smear or blacklist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chamberlin, the committee is in possession of information that you registered as a member of the Communist Party for the 1938 election, and I would like to give you an opportunity to explain that and state whether or not it is true, or to give such explanation as you desire to make of it.
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. It is my opinion that this committee is invading the rights of a person's personal political views, and, therefore, I must point out in my answer to this question that it neither confirms nor denies guilt in this question, and I invoke my right and my privilege in order not to testify against myself the use of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information that you are or have been a member of the Communist Party. The committee is investigating the extent of infiltration of communism into the moving-picture industry and in order to conduct that investigation it is necessary to know these facts. Is it true or not that you are a member of the Communist Party or have been ?
Mr. CHAMBERUIN. Mr. Tavenner, I believe you are an enlightened person and can understandMr. WOOD. Will you pleaseMr. CHAMBERLIN (continuing). Answers as I understand the ques- tionMr. WOOD. Just a moment. Just a moment, will you, please.
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I stand on the grounds prevously stated.
Mr. WOOD. Will you please cease just a moment when I interrupt you? This is an orderly procedure. We are entitled to at least the courtesy of at least a reply to the questions we are asking here. Will you please spare us your opinion as to the standing, intelligence, veracity, moral character of members of this committee and its staff, and answer the questions that are directed to you, because we are not concerned at all about your opinions of us.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chamberlin, you have stated that you are an actor by profession. How long have you been engaged in the practice of your profession in Hollywood ?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I have engaged-I have been engaged as a pro- fessional actor in Hollywood and its environs since 1936.  1507 
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time what are some of the principal plays or productions which you have taken part in in Hollywood?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. Since there are over a hundred plays that I have participated in as an actor, I find it rather difficult to single out any one of them. I presume that you are interested in the motion-picture industry, and that is more recent. It is easier to recall more specifically some of the answers which I assume you want. The first motion picture that I played in as an actor was The Best Years of Our Lives, which I am very proud to have been associated with, and I wish to make the comment that one of the creative artists involved in the making of this picture said not too long ago thatDue to the atmosphere of the country at the present, I would be unable to make such a picture today. I charge that this committee is responsible in helping create this kind of an atmosphere which creates censorship.
Mr. WOOD. Again, I call your attention to the fact that the com- mittee is not concerned about your opinion of it, so please spare us that. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. There have been-in order to continue the an- swer, there have been some 20 motion pictures that I have participated in. The present one that is showing in the moving-picture houses of the country is Pickup. There have been a number of television pictures that I have performed in, as well.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the director in the two plays that you have mentioned, the motion pictures you mentioned ?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. The director of The Best Years of Our Lives was Mr. William Wyler. The director of Pickup was Mr. Hugo Huss.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the producers of those pictures?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I believe in the former one, Mr. Samuel Goldwyn was the producer, and the latter picture, Mr. Hugo Huss also produced it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who employed you in connection with those two pictures? The procedure of employment in the motionpicture industry is through the actor's agent, together with the studio or the producing company which is responsible for that particular picture.
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was your agent in those two instances?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. Bender & Ward Agency.
Mr. TAVENNER. In both instances?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. Yes, in both instances.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was any inquiry made of you regarding your Com- munist Party or alleged Communist Party affiliations prior to your employment in those pictures?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. It seems to me that this is a derivative of the original question of this sort, and since I have stood on the fifth amendment, I stand so on this question, as well.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter, any questions?
Mr. WALTER. No questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DoYLE. No questions. 81595-51-pt. 4--7 1508 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter?
Mr. PoTTER. From your testimony, I assume that it is your conten- tion that the Communist Party is a political party rather than an international conspiracy; do you care to comment on that assumption I have from your testimony ?
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. I cannot help the assumption of the Congressmen of this committee taken regarding to any statement that I may make. I would be very happy to express my personal beliefs if there 'was not an atmosphere of repression and a feeling of persecution and, therefore, I must stand on the grounds similarly stated.
Mr. POTTER. I wish to inform the witness that any distasteful atanosphere that might be present is caused by the witness.
Mr. CHAMBERLIN. That is merely a matter of opinion.
Mr. POTTER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Any reason why the witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance on this committee ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. So ordered. Who will you call next?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Leo Townsend.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Townsend, will you hold up your right hand and be sworn, sir. Do you solemnly swear the evidence you give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I do.
Mr. WooD. Have a seat. Are you represented by counsel, Mr. Townsend?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I have been represented by counsel, who has advised me of my legal rights here. I don't feel the need of counsel here today.
Mr. WOOD. If you determine during the course of your examination that you do, you are at liberty to call him. TESTIMONY OF LEO TOWNSEND
