Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name, please, sir?
Mr. BURROWs. Abram S. Burrows.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. BURROWs. I am. Mr. Martin Gang.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Burrows?
Mr. BURRows. I was born in New York City, December 18, 1910.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present address ?
Mr. BURROWS. 1161 York Avenue, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly what your educational training has been? 4471 4472 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BURROWS. I went to elementary school, high school, in New York City and in Manhattan and in Brooklyn; went to College of the City of New York and NYU School of Finance, Pace Institute of Accounting.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation ? 
Mr. BURROWS. I am a writer and director in the theater, and I also appear periodically as a performer on television.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what the record of your employment has been since, say, 1936 ?
Mr. BURRows. Well, in 1936 I gave up accounting and was in a business called the woven-label business, in which I didn't do very well. Then I worked as a salesman in this woven-label company for a while, and finally in 1938 I went into show business. I wrote gags for a great many comedians around town, and then finally started on a regular radio program for the Columbia Broadcasting System. Do you want me to go on from there, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Please tell the committee where you engaged in these various lines of activity and as near as you can when you changed the location of your work, give us the dates.
Mr. BUERows. Right. Well, in New York City I worked on this radio program in 1938. Then in 1939 I was hired to do a program called the Texaco Star Theater in California. I went to California and wrote this Texaco Star Theater for Ken Murray and Frances Langford and Kenny Baker, and then in 1940 I was employed to write the Rudy Vallee-John Barrymore radio program. I started that in New York, went back to California with it. While in California, we got an idea for a program called Duffy's Tavern. The idea was picked up and sponsored and I went back to New York to write Duffy's Tavern. I was head writer of Duffy's Tavern for about 5 years, after which I left the field of radio and went to Paramount Pictures as a writer and producer. I didn't write or produce anything there.
Mr. TAVENNER What was that date?
Mr. BURROws. That was about in the middle of 1945. After that I wrote a program of my own, that is, one I owned myself and wrote, called Holiday and Company. I did that in New York from about the end of 1945 until about June of 1946. I came back to California and didn't do anything for a couple of months. Then I wrote the Dinah Shore program and the Joan Davis program. Then I.took on my own program called the Abe Burrows Show at the beginning of 1947; did that for a while. Then I went out in night clubs for about a year and a half and went back into television. Then I wrote a Broadway show. I was coauthor of Guys and Dolls. Since then I have done several other things in the theater. I did Guys and Dolls. I did a play called Three Wishes for Jamie, which I was coauthor of and I directed, and it is a play that won the Christopher award. I am presently engaged in writing a new play for the spring, a musical, and I am employed on a weekly television show called the Name Is the Same.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Burrows, you stated that you went to California in 1945 and returned for periods to New York in 1946 and then returned again to California, if I understood it. 
Mr. BURROWS. Yes; I did, sir. I returned to California in the middle of 1946. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDtJSTRT 4473 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, when did you go to California in 1945 ?
Mr. BURROws. I was in California in 1945, sir. I was doing Duffy's Tavern there, right up until the spring of 1945. Then I went with Paramount and that was in California.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. Now, when did you go to California prior to your working on Duffy's Tavern
Mr. BURROWS. Well, as I say, my first trip to California was in 1939. Then my next trip to stay for any length of time was in 1943. I went to California in 1943 in the middle of the year sometime, and I stayed from then until the time I left for New York to do Holiday and Company in 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you stated how you were employed or in what work you were engaged in California from 1943 up until 1945 ?
Mr. BURROWs. Yes; I was writing Duffy's Tavern. You see, I did that for 5 years. I was completely identified with that show. I didn't do anything else.
Mr. TAVENNER. M Burrows, you appeared in executive session of this committee on March 20, 1951, at which time you were interrogated about your activities in California and New York, and at that time your testimony was very vague with regard to your knowledge of individuals who have been shown to be members of the Communist Party in Hollywood and your contacts with those individuals. The investigation by the committee has continued, and during the course of our hearings in California there was a witness who appeared on October 2, 1952, before the committee while sitting in California. His name was Mr. Owen Vinson. Now, Mr. Vinson testified as to his own Communist Party membership, first in Chicago and then his transfer to the Communist Party in California. He testified that he was a member of the unit of the Communist Party established within radio, within a group of radio writers. He further testified that he was treasurer of that group for a period of time, possibly as much as 10 or 12 months. He fixed the time at which he was a member of that group in Hollywood, that is, the Communist Party group within radio writers, as being from October 1945 or the middle of 1946-his recollection was not clear as to the exact date-for a period of approximately 2 years. During the course of his testimony he identified a number of persons as having been members of that group. And among them was yourself. I will refresh your recollection of what his testimony was, with regard to you. given: The following questions were asked and answers QUESTION. Were you acquainted with Abe Burrows? ANSWER. Yes, sir. QUESTION. Was Abe Burrows a member of the Communist Party to your knowledge? ANSWER. Abe Burrows attended meetings of the Communist Party which I attended; yes, sir. QUESTION. Have you collected dues from him? ANSWER. I believe I have. I recall many instances of trying to, or at least a ' few instances. QUESTION. What do you mean by that? ANSWER. Well, Burrows was a little hard to pin down when it came to collecting dues. QUESTION. You say hard to pin down in the collection of dues? ANmW . Yes, sir. 4474 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY QUESTION. You mean difficult to collect them? ANSWER. That is right. Then this question was asked by Mr. Velde, a member of the committee:
Mr. Vinson. did you ever collect dues other than at private meetings of the Communist Party? ANSWER. Only on rare occasions when it appeared more convenient for the person who owed the dues to pay at a given time, and I don't recall at the moment any specific instance of that.
Mr. VELDE. In the case of Abe Burrows, do you recall any instances where you attempted to collect dues from him other than at a private meeting of the Communist Party? ANSWER. I never did. And then I resumed the questioning: QUESTION. But, at party meetings you endeavored to collect dues from him? ANSWER. That is right. QUESTION. Well, was there any occasion when he paid the dues? ANSWER. Yes, I think, as I recall, there were a few occasions when he paid at least a part of them. QUESTION. What reason did he ascribe at any time for not paying all of the dues that were supposed to be paid? ANSWER. Principally that he did not have money with him, as I recall. QUESTION. Was there ever a time when any question was raised by him that he was not supposed to pay dues because he was not a member of the party? ANSwER. I don't recall any such instances; no, sir. QUESTION. As treasurer of the group, did you consider that he was one of those from whom you should collect dues? ANSWER. Yes, sir; he was one whom I considered I should collect dues from, yes, sir. QUESTION. What part did he play in the meetings that were held? ANSWER Mr. Burrows was an infrequent attender of the meetings, and he was considerably vocal and he is an extrovert, but I think he did not particularly stick to the subject very well and what was going on, and he seemed more interested in being an extrovert than sticking to the business at hand. QUESTION. Over how long a period of time did you consider that he was a person from whom you should collect dues? ANSWER. I would have to guess at that. As I recall, Mr. Burrows commuted between Hollywood and New York, and he would probably be out here a few months or weeks at a time, and'I would say over a period of time that I was responsible for dues it was probably not more than 4 to 6 months at the most when I would consider him as a member out here. QUESTION. And that 4 to 6 months were not consecutive months as I under- stood you to say? ANSWER. I would not say for sure on it. That is purely a guess, and I don't recall exactly. Now, the chairman of the committee has, at many times during the course of our hearings, invited any person whose name had been adversely mentioned in the course of the testimony to appear before the committee, to make denial or explanation, as the witness may think proper to those accusations. Promptly upon the taking of this testimony, we heard from you that you desired to appear before the committee. And I assume it is in pursuance to that request that you are here now. Mir. BURROws. I am, sir. First of all, I would like to say that I was very anxious to come back, outside of the fact that I wanted to clear up everything. The first time I was subpenaed by this com- mittee I got in touch with my lawyer instantly and we asked to come down as quickly as possible. That was last year, in March. I would just like to say-that I was very frightened when I got that first subpena. I had been around in an atmosphere of people for a while who COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4475 disliked this committee very much, and I knew nothing about it except some of the stuff I had heard, and there had been a lot of-well, I might use the word propaganda. So I was pretty scared. But I came down here and spoke to the people here and the investigators and everybody was very fair to me. There were no monsters here, no Fascists, nobody trying to kill me. And so, I welcome this chance to come back here. The minute I heard Vinson had said something about me I said I wanted to come back and talk to you people because I really want to get this whole thing cleared up, this whole point of my Americanism being under suspicion is very painful to me, not just painful economically but painful as it is to a guy who loves his country, loves his home, and loves his people. So I want to get this whole thing cleared up and tell you anything I can in answer to this thing. In answer to what Mr. Vinson said, let me say the following: I have no recollection, no recollection at all of ever applying for party membership. I have no recollection of ever having possession of a Communist Party card, although I have been told by a private source that somebody had seen a card with my name on it. I have never seen such a card and I don't believe it. there, I have just never seen it. If it is I have no recollection of paying dues or anything that could be called dues. I have no recollection of any formal participation in anything that could be called this organization. However, I must say I did associate with Communists. I went to various meetings, I belonged to a lot of their fronts, I attended lectures, what was called study groups or something like that. I entertained for their causes. I gave them money for these causes over a short time. And so, if someone testifies that he thought I was a Communist, I guess he is telling the truth as he sees it. I was around with those fellows, and he saw me, and so I can't say that he is lying in that way. However, you know, I keep making or trying to make myself clear on one point, and that is that it is kind of a stubborn pride on my part that makes me happy in the belief that maybe I didn't take the final step.
Mr. TAVENNER. By final step, what do you mean ?
Mr. BumRows. I mean the actual applying or going through any of the ritualistic stuff which I was told and I always understood you had to go through before you became a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, how did you learn where the ritualistic stepsMr. BURROWS. Well, I have read a good deal about it, sir. I have read it in testimony from this committee, I have read a lot of articles about communism. You know, there was a period when I was around with these fellows ivhen the Communists weren't Communists as we know them or knew them before. Their role during the war was completely one of unity. They attacked anyone who talked about strikes, they talked about the war effort and unity and everything, and that was their whole approach. So they sounded like superpatriots, completely superpatriots. It wasn't until later that they began to show themselves. That iron fist, in that intellectual glove, you know, began to show itself, and people began to recognize what they were. But in those days it wasn't anything like that, and there were a lot of these fellows, a lot of them said they were Communists, 21546-52--pt. 1---2 4476 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY a lot of them were on the masthead of the New Masses, other people spoke for Communist causes, and there was no hiding of it or anythulg like that. But since I have discovered, I have read, about the conspiratorial nature of it, my role in this whole thing certainly doesn't jibe with the conspiratorial nature of it.
Mr. MOULDER. When Mr. Tavenner asked you about your associa- tion, or you referred to your association, was that at Communist meetings, Communist cell meetings?
Mr. BmRRows. Not anything that was called a Communist meeting. I have since read inr testimony of other people, where they use the words "open Communist meetings," I don't know if it was anything like that. I don't recall ever being at anything that I could say was formally set up. You know, I have read a lot of stuff about it since.
Mr. MOULDER. What I mean was, was it an organization meeting of the Communist Party itself ?
Mr. BURROWS. Not to my recollection. Now, for instance, Owen Vinson; I only recall his name because I ran into him in front of the Beverly Hills Hotel about a year ago.
Mr. MOULDER. I just want to be specific about what you testified to about your associations, the extent of your associations and the kind.
Mr. BuRRows. I was in a great many of those front organizations. I was around with people. For instance, back in 1943, where I testified in my 1951 testimony, that I had met a fellow named Samuel Sillen, who was one of the editors of New Masses. And lie introduced himself to me and we met somewhere in the country or somewhere and started to talk books. Then he introduced me to Joe North, who was editor of the New Masses, and another fellow named John Stewart, I think it was, and they would sit around and talk to me, and at one timeI refer to my earlier testimony-they said to me, "You ought to be much closer to us," that term. So I associated with these fellows. When I came to California, about a week after I arrived, I was called by Albert Maltz, and Albert Maltz said, "Samuel Sillen said for me to get in touch with you." He came with his wife and visited me at my home.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Burrows, to your knowledge was Samuel Sillen a member of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. BuRRows. Well, sir, he never said to me in those words, "I am a member." I don't ever remember anybody actually saying that to me. But I know he was literary editor of the New Masses. He wrote a column or something which was called A Marxist Approach to the Theater, so I would assume, sir, he was a member of the Communist Party. There was no doubt in my mind, I mean.
Mr. VELDE. And Joe North; did you know him to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BURRows. He was planning editor of the New Masses, and I would think the managing editor of the New Masses would have to be a member of the Communist Party. And when he spoke, he would say, "the Communists, we Communists." As a matter of fact, they once invited me to a lecture that was given under the auspices of the Communist Party in which Earl Browder had a debate with George Sokolsky. That is how everybody got along in these days. COMMUNISM IX HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4477 It was in 1943, I believe, in New York. And it was a big crowd and stuff like that.
Mr. VELDE. How about John Stewart. Did you know him to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, he wrote a book with a fellow who used to give lectures in Hollywood, which I attended, a fellow named Bruce Minton. Bruce Minton gave lectures on what he called a Marxist Approach to History, or something like that. Everything was called things like that, you know.
Mr. VELDE. Do you know whether Bruce Minton used any other name?
Mr. BuRRows. His real name was Richard Bransten, I believe.
Mr. VELDE. How well did you know him?
Mr. BURROWS. I knew him at his lectures and I was at his home a couple of times. His wife was Ruth McKinney, a writer, and they invited me there. In Hollywood, in those days, I was invited everywhere. I attended more parties, I guess, than anyone. The Saturday Evening Post, in 1945 or the end of 1945, did an article about me, and the fact that I played at parties all over Hollywood. As a matter of fact, it got a little out of hand. I used to go to too many, and I began to quit going when I started to get asked by people I didn't know. You know, people would say "Come to the party," and you would sit, and then you would sit down to the party and go to work. So I attended at parties, with all kinds of people, the right wing and the left wing, and the middle, and all down the line. I guess I never turned down an invitation to go to the piano. It was in a period before I became a performer, and I guess maybe I was hammy about it. I liked to sing. I played up these songs.
Mr. VELDE. Now, specifically with reference to Mr. Vinson, do you recall any time he collected or that he attempted to collect dues from you for the Communist Party ?
Mr. BURROWS. Not in the terms of dues. The way I remember Mr. Vinson is that his wife was named Pauline Hopkins, and she was a Radio Writers' Guild member. She came out from Chicago. She got very active in the Hollywood Radio Writers' Guild. We used to have meetings 'at their house. I know one specific kind of meeting we did have at their house was committee of the Radio Writers' Guild. There was a ways and means committee meeting which would be held over there. I know she had meetings over there of the radio writers' division of HICCASP, which was the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Committee of Arts, Sciences, and Professions. I remember seeing Vinson there then, somewhere in 1945. I remember giving him, I don't know for what, really, if I could state clearly. giving him any money. There was an anti-Fascist fund some of those guys used to collect for. But I don't remember paying Vinson anything that you would call dues. I mean, I think I would remember that. Also, he says he had trouble collecting dues from me, and that I used an excuse that I didn't have the money with me. Well, anyone who knows me knows I am not that sort of a fellow. If I had an obligation to pay dues, I would pay them. I don't think that point could have possibly come up, if I owed dues, not at all.
Mr. VELD. Now, as to these study groups that you mentioned, you studied communism in groups, as I understand your testimony. 4478 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BURROWs. Well, I used the words "study groups." They were groups that, in those days, I guess it was kind of to orientate people on what they called a Marxist approach to show business. You know, they used to have continual squabbles to the role of a writer and one group would hold the writer was a citizen and should be a completely active citizen, another group would hold that a writer was purely a writer. If you recall, it was a tremendous controversy that Albert Maltz had, I think it was, where he said art is a weapon and they said art isn't a weapon, or rather he said art isn't a weapon and they said it is a weapon. But it was a steady controversy over the role of the writer. I used to find myself periodically engaged in arguments. I am a satirist, and one of my best known satires is something that is a satire of a kind of documentary radio program that was very common among the liberal and left-wing writers of the day. There was a big tendency in those days to do these very pontifical radio programs with everybody talking very loud and introducing Thomas Jefferson and Abra- ham Lincoln at every opportunity. So I did a satirical thing on that at the piano. I remember the first time I did it was for some kind of a cause; I don't know what the cause was exactly, but I did it and there was a pretty large left-wing crowd, I guess, and there was kind of a quiet in the room. It didn't go as well as it did with others of my friends. And then one of the fellows came over, I think it was a fellow-I mentioned his name-Henry Blankfort, I think. I believe it was Henry. I don't know, because I guess I remember criticism. He came over and he said, "I think that is a very bad thing for you to do, Abe, you know." I said, "Why," and he said, "Because I think it is wrong." These guys had no sense of humor about themselves at all. I think that is one of the reasons that I wasn't too trusted.
Mr. VELDE. Did you know Henry Blankfort as a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BURRows. I know that he testified and took the fifth amendment, and I know that he has been around; he was around all of the time. It was another case of one of my assumptions, you know. In some of the cases I don't know whether I know a fellow was a Com- munist from reading about it in this committee's testimony or whether I knew it before. It kind of overlaps in your mind, you know.
Mr. VELDE. Now, coming back a little bit more specifically, if you can, to the study groups. Do you recall any of the instructors at these study groups? And the approximate date that they were held ?
Mr. BuRRows. Oh, somewhere in the 1945 period I think. But some of them were the study groups that Bruce Minton ran. It was a lecture, a regularly organized lecture. They were called a study, but he just talked. He, at the moment, was engaged in a terrific controversy with John Howard Lawson over how history was to be interpreted. 1 frankly didn't know what either of them meant. I was kind of baffled by the whole thing; I truly was. Now, that was one group. Then there was a book put out called Literature and Arts, by Marx and Engels, or something. It was a collection. And a group gathered to discuss this and I think it was a group of people from-well, who I largely knew to be radio members of HICCASP, as I recall. I don't remember names. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTR 4479 In my earlier testimony-I don't remember the names of these specific people-but in my earlier testimony when I was asked about some of these meetings and gatherings I was at, I said that a lot of the people were kind of faceless to me, and when I saw the list of people that Owen Vinson named as being part of the people in the group that I was supposed to have been part of, I knew, maybe, two of them. The others I really had not known, and I didn't even know them by name. I couldn't recall their faces.
Mr. VELDE. Do you remember them talking in these groups about the Duclos letter
Mr. BURRows. I don't know whether it was in this group. I remember a great deal of conversation, socially and such, when the Duclos letter hit. And all over Hollywood there was a good deal of whispering and hushing and stuff like that. But I remember the discussion in one group, I am trying to remember, on one evening where they were trying, one fellow, as I remember, was trying to make sense out of this thing. That seemed to be always the role of these guys, to try to make sense out of it. They spoke of how this would be a force for good. I remember way back in 1936-37, I told the committee the last time I was here, that I had belonged to the American League for Peace and Democracy. When the Nazi-Soviet pact hit, I resigned with a letter to the league. But at that time I remember they said when the NaziSoviet pact was put through, they said, "This is going to be a force for peace; a great thing." And the talk after the Duclos letter hit was about the same. They said, "This was going to do a great thing." I didn't know what anybody meant.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Burrows, you are a fairly intelligent man, I think your testimony has shown that. Couldn't you tell from the way their party line shifted that you were studying about Marxist communism: 
Mr. BuRRows. Oh, yes, I knew that-Mr. VELDE. And if you were interested in Marxist communism, don't you think it is reasonable to assume, or for us to assume and for you to assume, too, that you were a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BURROWS. But the study groups I mentioned, Mr. Velde, were in 1945, when there was absolutely no word mentioned of Marxist communism as we know it. It was a case of the writers' aid in the war, the writers' role in the war, the writers' role in establishing unity, how the writers should treat minorities, how he should treat the war effort, he shouldn't make jokes about gas rationing; stuff like that, you know. I attended no such study groups, as far as I know, after thinking, when it switched to what seems to be back to a revolutionary role. 
Mr. VET,DE. But you know now, do you not, that in order to get into those study groups in the first place, that you had to be an applicant or at least considered for membership in the Communist Party or an actual member?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I don't deny that I may have been considered for membership, and they may have been trying to prepare for it. I actually think that because of my work, my humor and my satire, that I wasn't very well trusted, I was called "chi-chi," phoney, I will use any word I can think of, because I mingled with people who weren't of the left. I did satires, for instance, on folk songs in a period when the Communist Party had taken the folk song very dearly to its bosom, 4480 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY because the folk song and the square dance seemed to be a way to establish American roots. And I used to rib that and was considered very irresponsible for it.
Mr. WOOD. May I ask a question at this point? from 1943 to 1945. what was your annual income?
Mr. BURROWS. In 1943 ? During the period 
Mr. WOOD. Yes, 1943-45, approximately.
Mr. BURROWS. In 1943 I guess I made about $40,000, and then in 1944 about $50,000, and in 1945 a little over $50,000. 
Mr. WOOD. When you made contributions to any organization, did you keep a list of them ?
Mr. BURRow,.. No, sir. I did when they were charity contributions.
Mr. WOOD. And deducted them from your income tax?
Mr. BURROWS. If they were charity, sir.
Mr. Woon. And others you didn't?
Mr. BURROWS. No. And I didn't make many.
Mr. WOOD. That were for charity, do you mean ?
Mr. BURROWS. That is right.
Mr. WooD. But you did make some that you knew were not for charity ?
Mr. BURROWS. Yes.
Mr. WOOD. Can you name some of them?
Mr. BURROWS. I made contributions to the Hollywood Independent Citizens Commlittee.
Mr. WooD. You knew what you were doing then.
Mr. BPRRows. Yes, sir. The Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee at that time, when I joined it, was a very broad organization.
Mr. WOOD. I understood that; I want to know if you knew. 
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. What other organizations?
Mr. BURROWs. I said the Hollywood Independent Citizens Com- mittee. I gave money once to a People's World fund. 
Mr. WooD. You knew what you were doing then ? 
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. You knew where the money was going to.
Mr. BURROWS. To the People's World fund; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the New Masses.
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. You knew where that was going.
Mr. BURRows. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. All right, then, categorically did you pay dues to the Communist Party?
Mr. BURROWS. Not to my knowledge, sir; I never paid anything I thought could be called dues.
Mr. WOOD. Categorically were you ever requested to pay dues to the Communist Party as such ?
Mr. BURROWS. Not to my knowledge, sir.
Mr. Woon. Categorically, did you ever decline to pay dues because you didn't have the money with you?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, categorically, no, sir. Because it just doesn't sound like me.
Mr. WooD. I am not asking you what it sounds like. Did you or did you not? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTR 4481 
Mr. BURROws. No, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Did you refuse to pay dues because you didn't have the money with you?
Mr. BURRows. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. That is all I have to ask. MAr. TAVENNER. I would like to go back a little bitMr. WooD. Wait a minute. I want to ask one other question. Do you know Owen Vinson ?
Mr. BURROws. I know him very slightly, sir.
Mr. WooD. You do know him?
Mr. BURRows Yes, sir; I met him at his house.
Mr. WooD. Did you ever give Owen Vinson any money for any purpose ?
Mr. BURROWS. I may have, sir. 
Mr. WOOD. Do you know whether you did or not ?
Mr. BURROws. I couldn't answer that for sure, sir.
Mr. WOOD. You say now under oath that you have no recollection now of ever having put into his hands any money for any purpose?
Mr. BURRows. Well, I am not sure of that, sir; I really am not. The one thing I am sure about is the thing that you call dues. But as far as giving him money for any purpose-if he said he was collecting money, I know that every time we had these meetings of any kind, whether it was HICCASP, Radio Writers' Guild, somebody was always collecting money for something. 
Mr. WooD. I know, but he testified before this committee that you paid him Communist Party dues. and that on certain occasions you didn't pay him and offered as an excuse why you didn't that you didn't have the money with you. Now, categorically, when he said that you paid to him money for Communist Party dues, was he telling the truth or not?
Mr. BURRowS. He may have thought he was telling the truth.
Mr. WOOD. I didn't ask you that.
Mr. BURROWS. I understand what you are saying. It is very diffi- cult for me to say this, because I think when Owen Vinson said he thought I was a member of the partyMr. WOOD. That isn't the question at all, Mr. Burrows. The question I am asking you is: Did you pay him money as Communist Party member dues, as he swore before this committee? IMr. BURROWS. No. sir; not to my knowledge.
Mr. WOOD. These contributions that you made, that you say you made. to other organizations. other than charitable organizations, were in what amounts? AMr. BURROWS. What is that, sir? ~r. (WOOD.In what amounts? i r. BURRMWs. Very sumll amounts. MIr. Woon. By that what do you mean ? IMr. BUIiROws. I mean like $i() or $20. MIr. Won. Well, if you had paid the Communist Party dues in the Sn111 off $15, $20, or 25 . would not your recollection have been as good about that as it would about the other organizations you contributed to?
Mr. BURROws. No, sir. I will tell you. I read about the dues; I Nread them described. I read where they were regular things. I read 4482 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE where assessments were made. mean, that is specific. INDUSTRY I think I would remember that. I 
Mr. WooD. Don't you know you were a member if you did it?
Mr. BuRRows. Well, no, I say if a thing is specific, when it sayswell, you say to me, I presume you mean that if it were small amounts I might not remember any more than I did about the other groups.
Mr. WOOD. If a man had walked up to you in a meeting that you knew to be attended by known Communists, and told you that he wanted to collect your dues for the Communist Party, in any amount, $1, $5, $10, $25, any amount, and you paid it or told him you didn't have the money and would pay him later, wouldn't you remember that ?
Mr. BURRows. I think so, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Well, did you do it ? 
Mr. BmRRows. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Vinson further testified as follows about the dues schedule. He said: As I recall, there was a certain set dues based on income up to-I do not recall exactly-I think it was $50 a week, which was probably $2 a month. And above that there was an assessment or dues of 4 percent of the gross salary. Now, were you ever consulted, or did you ever learn that you were to pay 4 percent or any other percent of your gross salary to anyone for any purpose ?
Mr. BURRows. No, sir. My salary in 1945, as I said, must have been about $50,000 or better. I am not exactly sure. But that would be a considerable sum and I would know about that. I never paid out anything like that, sir, or any part of that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you know of the requirement to pay a certain percentage of dues, or assessment of the group that you were attached to or that you became a member of ? Or associated with?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I had heard vague talk about people paying part of their money and that is the only way I knew of it. I never knew it as something presented to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that mean that at the time that you were asso- ciating with these people, that you heard discussed the payment of part of their salaries?
Mr. BURROWS. No, I don't mean that, sir. I don't mean that. I mean I had heard talk around. It is one of those things that kind of comes through, like a process of osmosis. I knew that big wheel Communists paid money. I had heard that, I had heard accusations about that in the paper. I heard that people gave portions of their income, et cetera. I had heard that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you hear that at the time, in 1945 and 1946?
Mr. BURRowS. Did I hear it where, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Any place.
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I say I heard it vaguely. I thought you meant did I hear it at these particularMr. TAVENNER. I couldn't tell whether you meant you heard it recently or back in those times.
Mr. BURROWS. I heard it back in those days, too, sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did anyone on any occasion ask you to contribute a percentage of your salary to any cause ?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4483 
Mr. WOOD. By that you mean that there was never any demand made upon you to make a contribution of a sJecific percentage of the income that you had to the Communist Party.
Mr. BURROWS. Never, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Or any other organizations?
Mr. BURROWS. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. The testimony has reflected that Communist Party cells were formed within various professions in Los Angeles, the legal profession, the medical profession, the newspaper guild, and in this instance among radio writers. Now, Mr. Vinson told us that he was a member of that group of radio writers, and he named other persons. You stated that you knew two of them. Who were the two?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I knew Sam Moore. I knew him a long time. I know him back since 1938.
Mr. WOOD. And who was the other one ?
Mr. BURRows. I am sorry: I thought Mr. Tavenner wanted me to stop. The other one? I think I-would you read meMr. WOOD. Well, irrespective of what you testified to before, do you know who it was?
Mr. BuRRows. I am not talking about what I testified before. I wanted Mr. Tavenner to read me the list, if lie would.
Mr. WOOD. You tell us who it was.
Mr. BUTows. I knew Sam Moore. From the list I remember Sam Moore, and I remember Georgia Backus. I remember her; she was very active in the American Federation of Radio Artists, and she was an actress. I know her both socially and at. a lot of HICCASP meetings, and stuff like that. Those are people I really knew. The others, I knew of some of them. I saw the list. And some I didn't know at. all. I just have no recollection.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know Sam Moore to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BuRRows. Not to be a member of the Communist Party, in the sense that he never said to me, "I am a member of the Communist Party," or showed mea Communist Party card. He was active in a lot of these Commnunist things, and he seemed to be-the word you use is he was around, you know. He seemed to be always around. And Sam was the first one who ever introduced me to-toolk me to the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you had any conversation with Sam Moore with regard to testifying before this committee ?
Mr. Bumiows. Yes, sir. The last time I saw Sam Moore was right after I lald made up my plans to come down to Washington and testify before this committee. I got the subpoena, got in touch with my lawyer, and we agreed that we were going to ask for immediate hearing in Washington. We came down well in advance of the date we were called. And Sam called me up, I hadn't seen him for a number of years, and he said he would like to see me. I said, "I have a rehearsal today, at the Forty-eighth Street Theater." He said could I see him a few minutes, and I said I would meet him. We met at Moore's Restaurant right next to the theater. Sam said, "I hear you got a subpena." I said, "Yep," and he said "I got one, too." 2 15 46-52-pt. 10---3 4484 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE I hadn't known that, it wasn't in the paper. you going to do with it ?" INDUSTRY He said, "What are I said, "Well, I think I have to keep that to myself." He said, "Well, I think the only thing to do is to stick with the fifth amendment." I said, "Sam, it is something I don't agree with you on, but I can't argue with you." It got very cold in the restaurant and I got up, and as a matter of fact we ordered coffee and I didn't finish the coffee, I paid the bill and went to my rehearsal and he left, and I haven't seen him since.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he take the initiative of getting in touch with you at that time? 
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir. He called me. I hadn't seen him in a long time.
Mr. WOOD. Do you know what the provision of the fifth amendment is ?
Mr. BURRows. I believe it is refusing to testify, it is a refusal to testify on the ground that what you say might incriminate you.
Mr. WooD. You knew that then, did you not?
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Why would he ask you to avail yourself of the protection of the fifth amendment, in appearing before this committee?
Mr. BURROWS. His theory was that everybody ought to stick together.
Mr. WooD. Everybody ?
Mr. BURROWS. Everybody. 
Mr. WOOD. You mean the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Los Angeles ought to hide behind the fifth amendment?
Mr. BURRows. Well, Mr. Wood, if I may point out, back in the days when the first group of people from Hollywood were called, I remember reading a thing about them, in which one of them said-whether it was a public statement or what, I forget what-in which they said that everybody, regardless of whether they had been members of the Communist Party or whether they had never been members, were to stick together in bucking the committee.
Mr. WooD. And do you know there were 12 of them that came here and did that ?
Mr. BURROws. What is that?
Mr. WooD. Did you know 12 of them came from Hollywood before this committee and claimed the protection of the fifth amendment?
Mr. BURROws. I didn't know how many had done it, sir.
Mr. WooD. Did you know that every one of them have been iden- tified in sworn testimony before this committee that they were members, and a lot of them have come before the committee voluntarily since they served their sentence in jail and admitted their membership?
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir; I know that.
Mr. WOOD. Why would this party be asking you or suggesting to you that you also avail yourself of the protection of the fifth amendment?
Mr. BURROWS. Because I think the Communists--I don't know if everybody who was subpenaed back in, for instance 1948, whenever that was, was a Communist or not. But I know the Communists in their requests said they thought everybody should refuse to talk to the committee.
Mr. WOOD. Every Communist? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4485
Mr. BURROWS. No; everyone, regardless. 
Mr. WooD. Do you know a single human being in the State of California who has been subpenaed before this committee that wasn't a Communist who availed himself of the protection of the Constitution ?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir; I don't know of any of the background. All I know is that I have never asked to avail myself of it since the beginning. I said to my lawyer, you know, sometimes it seems it might be easier for me if I just said, "Well, yes, I give up."
Mr. WooD. Now, Mr. Burrows, let's get down to cases. What this man wanted you to say here or suggested that you say here was that you refuse to answer the question as to whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party or had been, on the ground that to do so would incriminate you.
Mr. BURROWs. I don't think that connotation was meant.
Mr. WOOD. I understand. But you say you knew what the fifth amendment was.
Mr. BURROWS. I knew it.
Mr. WooD. And you knew then what he was referring to; did you not?
Mr. BURROws. I don't believe he was referring to this aspect of it. What he was referring to, I believe, was that a Communist Party member, in the fifth amendment, discovered a way to refuse to answer the questions of the committee without being cited for contempt, and I believe they would like everyone who is called, and that includes non-Communists, to refuse to answer this committee.
Mr. WooD. Now, let's follow that up just for a minute; permit me to follow it up for a minute. If I am called for any investigation that is empowered by law to administer an oath, and I take that oath that I will swear to the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, and then I am asked a question whether I am a Communist or not, and I say I won't answer that because to do so would involve criminal prosecution against me, or might have a tendency to subject me to criminal prosecution, is there any alternative in your thinking as to whether or not I am telling the truth, if I am a member of the party? If I am not a member of the party, I am swearing to a lie?
Mr. BURROWS. No alternative; no, sir; none at all.
Mr. WooD. All right.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Burrows, have you heard of branch D of the Communist Party of Los Angeles, the northwest section?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir; I haven't. I was asked that question in my last testimony. The names and the symbols mean nothing to me. I would like to adjust one little note, if I may, something I was saying to Judge Wood before, that it is possible, just like Owen Vinson said, that Sam Moore may have assumed I was a Communist, Judge Wood. That is entirely possible. And that would explain, sir, the differenceMr. WOOD. Why would he assume it?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I was there. I was around a good many of those things. I am sorry I was, you know, but I was, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Georgia Backus known to you to be a member of the Communist Party ? 4486 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BURROWS. Not known. However, I kind of assumed it. She was very intense about everything, you know, the kind of thing you associate with that. She was very intense and terribly active.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, she was one of those named by Mr. Vinson as a member of this radio group of which he claimed you were a member. Do you recall attending meetings at which she was present?
Mr. BURROWS. I recall meetings of the radio writers' group of HICCASP at Pauline Hopkins' house, where Georgia Backus was present. I don't recall what kind of meetings other than that I was with her at. I saw Georgia at meetings. You know, she was at everything. I saw her at meetings a couple of times a week.
Mr. TAVENNER. With what regularity (lid these meetings occur that you attended ?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, no regularity, sir. Mr. Vinson himself says it. He says I was commuting, but actually I never attended any of these meetings with any regularity. I wasn't commuting.
Mr. T.VEXXER. Who acted as a chairman at those meetings?
Mr. BVRROWS. I don't recall any definite chairman.
Mr. TA\VE_-NER. Were you acquainted with Hy Alexander'? 
Mr. BURROWS. I knew him as a radio writer, slightly, not well.
Mr. TAVEXNNER. Did you attend meetings at which lie was present?
Mr. BURROWS. Various meetings. He was an active member of the Radio Writers' Guild.
Mr. 'TAVE ER. Was lie chairman of any of the meetings that you attended ?
Mr. BURROWS. Not to my knowledge. He wasn't the type of fellow that was a chairman. He was a kind of quiet fellow as I recall. I don't know him well, but I recall him being a very quiet fellow. I think he was married to Georgia Backus, was he not ? I think so. He waq married to somebody.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Burrows. do I understand you to say that you have never signed an application for the Communist. Party ?
Mr. BuRROWS. Not to my knowledge, sir. I think I would remem- ber signing such an application.
Mr. VELDE. Then you are pretty sure you never signed such an application?
Mr. BURROws. Pretty sure, sir.
Mr. VELDE. And, furthermore, are you as equally as sure that you never signed the Communist Party card, yourself, signed your name on a Communist Party card?
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir. As I said before, somebody told me they saw a card with my name on it. First of all, I don't know how anybody would have a card that I signed, and I think-well, let me put it this way, I think to sign a Communist Party card would have seemed like the height of insanity to me, even though I was around and listening and involved in the fronts and entertaining with them, I wasn't really one of the fellows.
Mr. WOOD. Do you sign documents that you don't know what they are?
Mr. BURROWS. What, sir? 
Mr. WOOD. Do you sign instruments without knowing what they are?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Not ever, do you ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4487 
Mr. BURROWS. No. 
Mr. WOOD. You read what you sign.
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Then why are you indefinite about whether you signed it?
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. BURROWs. I am not indefinite about it. WOOD. You say now categorically you did not do it? BURROWS. To my recollection I never signed any such thing. WOOD. That is still indefinite. You just testified that you do not sign documents without knowing what is in them, and what they are. On that basis, will you tell us whether or not you signed an application for membership in the Communist Party or signed a Communist membership card?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. You did not. do it ? 
Mr. BURROWS. I have no recollection of doing such thing.
Mr. WOOD. I asked you did you do it or not.
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I say, sirMr. WOOD. Do you want to leave the committee in doubt? 
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir; I don't.
Mr. WooD. Then did you or not ?
Mr. BURRows. I didn't.
Mr. WooD. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Reuben Ship ?
Mr. BURROWS. No; not acquainted. I knew Reuben to be a radio writer. I have never attended any meetings with him that I knew of. I don't think I would know what he looked like, if I saw him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Charles Glenn?
Mr. BURROWS. I knew of him slightly. I remember him around some of these literature discussions.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did these discussions regarding literature take place ?
Mr. BURRows. What do you mean by when ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Under what circumstances.
Mr. BURROWS. Somebody, either at the guild or HICCASP of something would say a group of us are getting together for a talkfest Monday night or something like that. iMr. TAVENNER. Who would notify you about those meetings to discuss literature and other things?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I sometimes would get a card, which would say, at so forth and so forth, literature and art is going to be discussed, or a new book or something.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were these meetings held?
Mr. BURROWS. In various homes. From Owen Vinson's name coming up, I remember that some of them were held in his house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall the names of other houses, the names of the owners of the homes ? 
Mr. BtRRows. No, sir. As a matter of fact, I made the point in my last testimony that a lot of them were held in places that didn't seem to be homes. They seemed to be houses but not homes. They were sparsely furnished. I remember one on the Crescent Heights Boulevard or something. Nobody seemed to live there. The reason I remember Vinson's house was he was the one who put up the chairs, you know. So you figure it, is the host who is doing that. 4488 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were any meetings of that character held at your home ?
Mr. BURROWS. There were HICCASP meetings held at my house, but none of these literature meetings that I know of. HICCASP meetings, Radio Writers' Guild meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Elizabeth Glenn?
Mr. BURROWS. I wasn't acquainted with her. She was in my house once, I think, and I met her. She was never at any of the meetings that we were talking about, any of the gatherings. I never knew her. But she used to kind of wheel around at benefits and big functions. She seemed to be a person of some authority.
Mr. TAVENNER. She was. She has been shown to have been a functionary of the Communist Party.
Mr. BURRows. I can remember her, because she was an exceptionally large lady.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her reason for being at your house? 
Mr. BURRows. She came to my house one night with some other people. You see, a lot of these people on the left would show up at my place socially, periodically, and she was brought by somebody. I think she was brought by Richard Bransten, by Bruce Minton, at the time she came.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of her visit ?
Mr. BURRows. They dropped by. It was after some kind of thing, where everybody dropped by at somebody's house for a drink, and I knew him, and I guess I told him to drop by for a drink and I know her. It was after a rally or something, and he brought her. The only thing I remember is that she was engaged at the time- she introduced herself to me, as I remember at that time, and she said, "Did you read Albert Maltz' new book?" Albert Maltz had just written the Cross and the Arrow, I think it was, a book about war in Germany, and I said "No," and she said it was terrible. That is all I know. She was very critical of it, and I guess I gave her a book, and that was all. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know at that time that she was a functionary of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BURRows. It was one of the things you felt. I don't know about the word functionary, but I assumed she was a wheel.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Tavenner, I guess this would be a good time to recess. The subcommittee will stand in recess until 2 o'clock. (Whereupon, at 12:30 p. m. the subcommittee recessed, to reconvene at 2 p. m. the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (The subcommitte reconvened, pursuant to recess, at 2:10 p. m., Representatives Morgan M. Moulder, James B. Frazier, Jr., and Harold H. Velde being present.)
Mr. MOULDER. The committee is called to order and hearing re- sumed with and by a subcommittee composed of three members, Mr. Frazier, Mr. Velde, and Mr. Moulder as acting chairman. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4489 TESTIMONY OF ABRAM S. BURROWS, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL MARTIN GANG-Resumed
Mr. TAVE1NNER. Mr. Burrows, I was interrogating you about the other persons whose membership in the radio group of the Communist Party has been testified to by Mr. Vinson. Among them is a person by the name of Billy Wolff. Were you acquainted with Billy Wolff?
Mr. BURROWS. Only as a radio writer. I knew him as a guy trying to get a job in radio, and he also belonged to the guild. I didn't know him in any political capacity.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated in the earlier part of your testimony that most of those whose names were mentioned by Mr. Vinson were faceless people, as far as you were concerned.
Mr. BURROWS. Sort of, sir; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, could Mr. Wolff have attended any of the meetings which you attended and you not have recognized him as
Mr. Wolff? (Representative Harold H. Velde left the hearing room.)
Mr. BURRows. He could have, sir. He could have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Stanley Waxman ?
Mr. BURRows. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Dave Ellis?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. A radio actor and writer ?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir; never heard the name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Lee Barrie?
Mr. BURRowS. I vaguely remember a radio actress by that name or a singer or something by that name, but I could not really place her, sir, not in any real knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Lynn Whitney?
Mr. BURRows. She was a quite well-known radio actress. She worked, I believe, on some shows that I did, and also I believe she was a member of the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall her having been in attendance at any of the meetings which you described ?
Mr. BURRows. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has she been at any meetings in your house, in your home?
Mr. BuRRows. No, sir; she may have been in my home socially. She was a radio actress, and she might have come socially with some people. I vaguely remember something like that, sir, but I don't recall her in any meeting connection as far as I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. I previously asked you a question regarding your knowledge of Charles Glenn. Did you know at the time that you knew Mr. Glenn that he was affiliated with the Communist Party?
Mr. BURROWS. I remember assuming so. He sounded like a fellow who was very politically conscious. As a matter of fact, in discussions, I remember, on this literature and art thing, now that you bring it up, he was one of the fellows that led the thing. I vaguely remember him, not too well, but I do remember him, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he doing radio writing at the time that you knew him ? 4490 COMMUNISM IN HOLL1YWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BURROWS. As far as I know, le was never employed in radio. I don't know of any shows he might have written.
Mr. T.AENNER. What did he do, if you know ?
Mr. BURROWS. I don't know. I remember at the time I kind of used to wonder. You know, there were a lot of people around that I mentioned who called themselves radio actors, radio writers, but who actually don't write in radio or act in radio but they call themselves actors and writers. I don't recall this fellow, for instance, ever writ- ing for radio.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Elaine Gonda ? 
Mr. BURROWs. I made a note of that when I saw her name. I remembered her when I read Charles Glenn's name because I think that they were having a kind of romance or something, it struck me, because I remember seeing them sittingMr. TAVENNER. Well, they became married, didn't they?
Mr. BURROWs. Really ? Well, that is the end of the romance.
Mr. TA.VENNER. That was Elaine Gonda.
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I remember her in connection with-I don't quite remember what she looked like, but I remember they used to sit and hold hands, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. What type of meetings were these at which this occurred ?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I think that they were present together at this one study group that I told you about which was based on this literature and art book.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Gene Stone, another person identified by Mr. Vinson?
Mr. BURROWS. I vaguely remember his name. The reason I know his name now is because I heard gossip around Radio Row that he had married Pauline Hopkins, who was married to Owen Vinson. That is how I remember his name. I never knew of any work he did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Jack Robinson?
Mr. BURROWS. He was a radio gag writer. He tried out for Duffy's Tavern, when I was writing it, and didn't get the job, but I remember him at guild meetings and stuff like that. I don't remember him in any political connection.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Vinson also identified Annette Harper as a member.
Mr. BURROWS. That name doesn't mean anything to me, sir.
Mr. T\AVENNER. Were you acquainted with Paul Marion'?
Mr. BURROWS. Paul Marion I knew as an actor. He was around in the Actor's Lab, I believe. I saw him in a performance and I remember lie once came up and auditioned for me. I think it was for Duffy's Tavern, something like that, something I was to do. I used to hire actors. That is how I recall Paul. I never remember any political meetings with Paul Marion.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Paul Marion testified the same with regard to you: that you had not been present at the time he was present, although Paul Marion testified that he was a member of this same group.
Mr. BURROWS. I see. Well, I didn't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to go back for a moment to your work in New York City. You stated while in New York City you met Samuel Sillen, and also Joe North. Now, when was that ? COMMUNISM IN 
Mr. BURRiWs. 1943. HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4491 I met Sam Sillen somewhere in the country. I got a feeling it was somewhere up in the suburbs. I am not sure now. He was a very intelligent fellow. He was literary critic for the New Masses at the time. I didn't know it the night I met him. I knew that this was a very bright fellow who was saying good words about good books, when we talked, and I found him good company. He and his wife called me a week later and asked me over, and then I found out who he was. We talked, and he introduced me, as I say, to these other people from the New Masses, and they asked me to their houses; and we had-I don't know-seven or eight sessions of talk. They talked about the New Masses. As a matter of fact, if I recall, Joe North wanted me to do a column for the New Masses, which I wouldn't do. They said they hadn't had a humor column for a long time. You know, there wasn't anything very humorous in the publication. So, he asked me would I consider doing a humor column. I remember that now. And I said "No."
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that the first time that you met Mr. Sillen? 
Mr. BuRRows. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And can you state the circumstances under which you were invited to this first meeting ?
Mr. BuRRows. Well, it wasn't a meeting. It was at his house. And he said "Come for dinner." I came over with my former wife. We had dinner, and there were a few people there. Then Joe North, John Stewart-I don't remember who else, a couple of people-we all sat around and talked. Then, the next time, he called me about 3 days later, and I think I went up to the New Masses office. I think, when Joe North asked me would I be interested in maybe doing a humor column, he said "A bright guy like you," and I think I recall then that they used the words "A bright guy like you who is widely accepted." I believe that was the kind of phrase he used. You know how tough it is dredging up things from this far back; but, as you talk to me about it, I follow through. And then another time I met-it must have been about six or seven times I met him be- fore I went to California. Not much more; it couldn't have been, more or less perhaps. (Representative Harold H. Velde returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Why did you refuse to write the column for New Masses?
Mr. BURROws. I didn't want to do a column for New Masses, even though I knew then-you will see, in any records you have of me, I never wrote for a Communist publication.
Mr. TAVENNER. But, if you would associate with all of these persons who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party, if you would contribute to the support of the People's World and the New Masses, it isn't much of a distinction between those things and writing a column; is there ?
Mr. BURRows. Yes, sir; there is, because it is my mind and it is my work. I would like to make one point. You see, in all of this, even in that, I never went all the way, I feel. I wouldn't want to leave this committee with the impression I was trying to evade anything or deny anything that was said about me. If Owen Vinson thought I was a Communist, I think he had a right' to assume so. I think the other fellows around him had a right to assume it. I was around with them. I don't want to deny it. I am here under oath, and I know what 2 1546-52-pt. 10-4 4492 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY it looks like; I know what. my associations make it look like. And so I really want that understood: that I didn't come here to be evasive. I don't want to deny anything like that. I just hold up on that one little thing: that I just got the feeling that I didn't go all the way. Maybe it is a matter of pride, something I will go to my grave with, sir; but it was what I feel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I understand. But now, having taken the position that you do not. admit having been a member of the Com- munist Party, but that you do admit that you were, in many respects, either similar to a member if not actually a memberMr. BURROWS. Or I was considered a member, too. I will admit that. When you use the word "admit," sir, I don't deny anything; I don't deny that these fellows assumed that I was a member of it when Judge Wood questioned me today. I got a sharp insight. It is something that may be hard to believe, but it hit me like a flash when he said to me "Why did Sam Moore come to you?" It struck me I had never asked myself why did he come to me, and I realize I know Sam Moore thought I was a member, or he wouldn't have come to me. I think the judge was right.
Mr. TAVENNER. .What you are saying in substance is that 'you believe Sam Moore had a right to think you were a member?
Mr. BuRRows. Well, from looking at the objective facts, sir, if I may talk like a lawyer, I guess, from the objective facts and the material things that exist-I am here under oath-there were all of my associations, the people I was around with. They could have thought I was a member; they really could have. I don't deny that they could have thought so, and I don't deny that my own sloppiness of action, my own thoughtlessness, or whatever it was, gave them the right to think I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let's go back for a moment to these seven or eight meetings with Samuel Sillen and Joe North. Did they-that is, Samuel Sillen and Joe North-have reason to believe, as you look upon it now, that you were a member of the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. BURROWS. I don't think so, and I will tell you why. When you say "meetings"-you see, when I speak of meetings, in Hollywood I had the HICCASP meetings, Radio Guild, a thousand other things, studio groups, and I don't know what got involved, but in New York there were no meetings, nothing that could be called a meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. You told us this morning that while you and Mr. Samuel Sillen and Joe North were together they suggested to you that you should be one of them.
Mr. BrRRows. They said "Why aren't you closer to us." And I know that that follows, because when I got to California Albert Maltz called me at the request of Sillen.
Mr. TAVENNER. And you knew Albert Maltz was a member of the Communist Party when he called you in California?
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir; I assumed so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did anything else occur in California that would lead you to believe that some word had been sent from someone in New York regarding your interest in the Communist Party?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I remember once being called by a girl; 1 don't remember her name. I remember testifying to this the last time. Some girl called, and she said: "Wouldn't you like to get in touch with COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRi some progressive people?" Minton's lectures, I think. 4493 She was the one who told me about Bruce The other contact I have in California. When you say "Did anything else occur in California?" a thing occurs to me which was later-but which goes again into the fact that they assumed I was with them, which was in about 1946, I think it was. Yes: it was 1946. I got a call from a fellow named Abe Polonsky, who has been named, and who has testified here, or has refused to; I don't know what. But I got a call from him. I knew him. When he came back from the war he was a pretty interesting guy. He had been with the Office of Psychological Warfare, in London. I think it was London. I met him in some people's homes and he had a similar background to mine, in youth. He had been to City College and had written in radio. And then he called me and I knew that he was a-the word that was used then was "a progressive." I knew he was around these things; he became part of the mobilization and things like that. He called me, and he said: "I would like to have a drink with you. Where are you going to be this afternoon?" I said: "I am going up to Schwab's Drug Store." That is up on Sunset Boulevard.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you speaking in California or New York
Mr. BnRROWS. California. He said, "Will you drop by for a drink," and I said "All right." I stopped by his house. I first said I was going to be doing some shopping. He said "Just stop by for a few minutes." When I came to his house he was there, and beside him was a fellow named John Stapp, who, I was told by this committee about a year and a half ago, was an organizer or something-some official in the Communist Party. I never knew him; he never spoke two words to me. He was a kind of violent, thin man. I remember seeing him once at some kind of benefit. And then he was sitting beside Polonsky and Polonsky said to me, "Abe, why don't we ever see you around?" I said, "Well, I am busy." He said, "You are not; you are not working in any of the organizations." He made a point of it I wasn't working in the organization anymore, or HICCASP. I said I was working very hard, very busythe kind of evasive answers you give a guy in his house, you know. And he said, "Tell me frankly, Abe, don't you think there should be a left wing in the Communist Party ?" I said, "Physically, I think that in every government there should be a left and right. That balances each other. But I dont' think the Communist Party is that." Incidentally, I made a note that I never got a drink. I was invited for a drink, you see. And so, all of a sudden, it got very chilly. He turned to Stapp and he said: "Well, at least he thinks there ought to be a left wing." And Stapp got up, and it was very funny, kind of like in a gangster movie. Stapp hadn't said a word to me. He just kind of sat there like-I don't know. And he turned and he walked out, just nodding to me. He hadn't said one word. And I said, "Well, I got to get to my errand," and he said, "0. K.; so long." That is the last time I ever saw him. But he was there questioning me-this was about 1946questioning me on my lack of activity. I was kind of surprised at the 4494 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY way he spoke to me. I couldn't quite figure out what he was getting at; but that was it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Don't you think that Polonsky took you to John Stapp, a functionary of the Communist Party, and you were asked questions of the character that you were actually considered a member of the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. BURRows. Well, in this conversation nobody spoke like that; nobody said that to me. There was a kind of reservation and caution, feeling me out how I felt about things, and when I left there I will tell you I felt pretty good when I left that house. I felt kind of disconnected from even knowing these people, because I wasn't seeing them socially anymore. You see, for personal reasons-it is very odd; there is a whole other thing, but for personal reasons I wasn't seeing any of these people socially anymore. So, that end of it was gone completely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Am I correct in assuming there that you are saying that your connection with the people that you had been connected with before was terminated at this time; is that what you are saying?
Mr. BURROws. In all ways, you see, it was terminated even before this Polonsky visit. It was terminated socially, and then I had nowell, you know, sometimes when you cease being active in organizations like HICCASP you may still go on seeing the people socially, but even that aspect of it in my life was terminated socially.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were there any other occurrences where you came in contact with functionaries of the Communist Party in California which you have not already told us?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I don't remember if there were some in my previous testimony that I referred to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Carl Winter ?
Mr. BURROWS. That story I told last time; yes. When I first came out to Hollywood, right after I had spoken to Maltz, and seen him and stuff like that, somebody called me and said-used the name-I think he said "Sparks"-Nemmy Sparks.
Mr. TAVENNER. Nemmy Sparks? 
Mr. BURRows. Was it Nemmy ? I don't know. We weren't on nickname terms. Nemmy sounds odd. But, anyway, he said that the Communist Party was putting on a series of radio programs which Carl Winter was going to speak at. He was going to be the speaker. He wanted somebody like me-you know, I was even then known as a kind of radio doctor. Later I got a reputation as a play doctor. I was fixing up shows and stuff like that; I was a trouble-shooter. In addition to doing Duffy's Tavern, I was a trouble-shooter on things, and was pretty well known as a director. He knew I was a man interested in progressive things, and I guess he got that from Sillen, too. They were getting up a committee of a broad base. The words "broad base" were used by these guys a good deal. "Broad base" meant Communists or non-Communists, I guess. They say "broad base." They were getting up a committee to advise Mr. Winter and support this radio broad- cast. So, I said, "What can I do?" They said, "Can you spare a few minutes to give us your professional opinion on the speech, and maybe give Mr. Winter a few pointers?" So, I said "Yes," as I always did, and I went over. They gave me the address, and I went to a house. I guess it was Winter's house, because he was sitting in his shirt sleeves. His wife was there; Sparks COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4495 was there, and I vaguely remember the house. It is kind of fuzzy. I remember him showing me the sketch. I remember him being very surly. I use "surly" because he wasn't friendly. If a fellow asks me to do him a favor and look at his speech, I figure he would be friendly, but he wasn't. Again nobody even gave me a drink of water. I sat there, alnd it was very odd. It-was right after I came to Hollywood, and I don't think I had even joined the Mobilization yet. However, there I was. I don't know-maybe largely curiosity. So I sat there with him, and he said, "What do you think of this. I looked at the speech and right away it is one of those things that is hard to read, and it has everything in it. It has the poll tax in it, you know lie is talking about the war, and it has everything in it, all kinds of things, you know. It even had a thing, I remember, and it has been a funny thing, about rents in Harlem. He is talking on California, about the war, and he is trying to get it all into 15 minutes. I start to doze after reading the first paragraph. So he said, "Now. look," and I said, "Well, it looks-." He said, "I don't want your opinion on the contents," and he talked to me as if I was some kind of an idiot, as if to say "Look, I want your radio technique and you are a good director, but you don't -know a darn thing about what I am going to talk about, so don't stick your nose in." I said, "Well, sir, it looks a little long to me." and then he started to read. He said, "I am going to work slowly, because I have a very bad speaking voice." So I said what was probably an unfortunate thing; I said, ^Why are you delivering it ?" Well. immediately I stepped on somebody's toes, because it seemed he selected himself. I thought they would get the best one, but that isn't the way it would work. These guys are hams, too. So I left, and I never had a chance to do anything with his speech. I heard it subsequently on the air and it was as dull as I thought it would be.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how they obtained your name?
Mr. BURROWS. I think so. I told you, because Albert Maltz called me when Sam Sillen referred him to me. My guess is that I was referred by Sam Sillen to Albert Maltz as a very likely prospect. I would say that that was the fact.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you do any work on Winter's speech at all ?
Mr. BURROWS. No; none at all. He wouldn't let me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to see Mr. Winter or Nemmy Sparks, or Mr. Nemmy Sparks after that ?
Mr. BURROWS. Never, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you see John Stapp on any occasion other than the time you mentioned ?
Mr. Buonows. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an instructor at the People's Education Center in Hollywood?
Mr. BURROWS. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who solicited you for that work ?
Mr. BURROWS. I don't remember the man's name. I discussed that the last time I was here. It was somebody who was executive director. The name "Kenneth," I think, came into mind, but I don't know the whole name. He said to me, "We want to have a class in radio comedy writing, how would you like to do it?" I was always a kind of frustrated 4496 COMMUNISM r HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY teacher, so I said, "I will take a whack at it." I taught it for a semester and a half; I taught radio comedy writing.
Mr. TAVENNE. . Do you know what qualifications a person was required to have to teach in that particular school, People's Education Center?
Mr. Burnows. No, sir. I think that the basic thing was, actually, to get people who would do it and not ask for their money. For instance, I was told I was to be paid. I never did get paid. And I think there was that trouble in getting teachers. At the time, however, the school was a new experiment in adult education, so-called, and I understood, they told me, they had a veteran's license and things like that, and I was to teach shipyard workers, and I kind of liked the idea. But there was no question with me about qualifications in relations to that. I taught it, I kind of enjoyed it for a little while, and then I got tired of it. In my second semester, as I recall it, it took on a stronger coloration. I think they began to give a course in Marxist history, as I recall, and I remember I left it right in the middle. I left my class my second semester right in the middle.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was your superior? 
Mr. BURRows. Nobody was my superior. There was an executive director of the school. I never could remember his name. I was shown that. It was nobody I knew well. Is there a name Kenneth something ? I don't know why that name sticks in my head.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; there is a person whose first name is Kenneth, but there may be a number of people by that name, so I wouldn't want to guess at it.
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I don't know. I taught there for a while. I kind of enjoyed it for a little while, standing up there. I was the kind of guy who loved to pop off.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you state that you were at one time affiliated with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. Bu-Rows. Yes, sir; 1943, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you were treasurer of the organization.
Mr. BURROws. For a little while. Emmett Lavery was president and I was treasurer of it at that time, for a little while.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization after the war?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Richard Collins testified at some length before the committee regarding a way in which that organization was used by the Communist Party at the close of the war. Are you familiar with any of the details of it
Mr. BURROWS. No. The fight in the mobilization, and I knew there was stuff going on, I could hear vague buzzings about it in Hollwood that took place after I ceased to have any activity there. When I joined it it was an organization which had been formed in 1941 on Pearl Harbor Day to write scripts for the war. I joined it and at the time I believe Emmett Lavery was president and I became treasurer. I didn't do any treasuring, I mean that was just kind of a title. I didn't have anything to do with money. I wrote some scripts for them and I made a speech for the Writers' Congress under the auspices of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. There was a big congress of writers at the UCLA. I made a speech on humor in wartime, in which I discussed the use of humor in wartime, and how writers by being irre- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTR 4497 sponsible could cause a good deal of harm, by attacking rationing and stuff like that in wartime. And that is all. That was my only connection with the mobilization.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have referred to your activity with Hollywood Independent Citizens' Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. Were you on the executive council of that organization ?
Mr. BURROWS. I think I might have been. I think I might have been.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who solicited your participation in that ?
Mr. Buinows. In the HollywoodMr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. BURROWS. I don't know. A bunch of people in the guild. When that thing was formed, almost everybody belonged to it. It was almost a social thing, sir. They had big functions and people came and said "Yes" and gave money and entertained. I entertained for them a lot. That was very broad, as I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the January 25, 1945, issue of the Daily Worker, you were among a number of people from Hollywood who signed a telegram to the President of the United States to terminate the proceedings that were then being undertaken to deport Harry Bridges. Do you recall authorizing the use of your name on that telegram ?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean you do not recall? Or that it did not occur? 
Mr. BURRows. I think it did not occur.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of the issue I referred to; and if you will look at the last paragraph, you will see the following language: "Among those signing the wire were Abe Burrows, writer of Duffy's Tavern Radio Show," and the names of other people Will you examine it?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir; I have seen this before. such wire. I didn't sign any 
Mr. TAVENNER. If your name was used in connection with it, it was without your authorization? 
Mr. BURROWS. Without my knowledge or permission.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any connection with the American- Russian Institute of Southern California ? 
Mr. BURROWS. None whatsoever, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated in any way with the Joint Anti- Fascist Refugee Committee in Los Angeles 
Mr. BuRRows. I entertained for them, I think, once or twice. never was affiliated with them. I 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the circumstances under which you became affiliated with that organization or were solicited to become affiliated ?
Mr. BuRROWS. I never was solicited to become affiliated with them. I never became a member of that organization, sir. I remember somebody calling me and asking me to entertain at a benefit. You know I didn't use to ask in those days. It turned out to be for the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who solicited your help? 4498 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BURROWS. I don't know. Somebody called me and said, "Abe, would you do a benefit for Saturday night ?"-some social friend. To this day I do thousands of things, but I now watch them.
Mr. TAYENNER. When did you begin watching them ? IMr. BURROWS. Well, as soon as I realized what this whole thing was about, right after the end of the war, right with the end of the war. 1 would like to show you. Right after the war I immediately, when the Communist Party was completely opposed to building up American defenses, I did a whole series of radio shows for the United States Army for Army recruiting. I recruited soldiers and marines, wrote the shows, prepared them, and put them on for the Army. I got a citation from the United States Army for it. I did many recruiting shows. I have here, for instance-this is 1947, when the Communist Party really changed their whole way of thinking. It is from the Poor Richard Club of Philadelphia, which is a very famous club, and it says "The officers and directors of the Poor Richard Club are gratified to learn that you have consented to join the club in honoring General Eisenhower at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, January 17."
Mr. TAVENNER. What year?
Mr. BURRows. The letter is dated December 26, 1947, and I was invited to appear January 17, 1948, and with General Eisenhower at this thing I was very, very thrilled about it, and I went to the dinner. If you recall, that was the first time they started the big Republican move for General Eisenhower in Philadelphia at that time. IMr. TAVENNER. Have you any other statement you desire to make that would throw light on either the truth or falsity or incorrectness of the testimony that has been introduced against you?
Mr. BURRows. Well, sir, I think I have said about everything I can say on that. I don't deny that Mr. Vinson had a right to think that 1 was a Communist. I don't deny that a lot of people, because of my actions at the time, assumed that I was a Communist. And therefore he had a right to say so, and told the truth as he saw it. However, I came here to tell whatever I could about myself, and if I retain that one little thing about not having made the final step, that is the only reservation I make, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't believe I have any other questions for this .gentleman.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Frazier?
Mr. FRAZIER. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Velde? 
Mr. VELDE. Just one or two, Mr. Burrows. You mentioned the various so-called front organizations that you have belonged to, and your status during the peace pact and during the time of the Duclos letter. Were you conscious of the fact that the party line, the Communist Party line, the American Communist Party line, was being directed by Soviet Russia at that particular time ?
Mr. BURROwS. Do you mean in between those two times, sir?
Mr. VELDE. Yes. Between the peace pact and the Duclos letter.
Mr. BURROWS. Well, you are referring to the period during the war?
Mr. VELDE. Well, primarily.
Mr. BURROWS. In that period during the war, it was very hard for me to be conscious of the fact that it was being directed by Soviet Russia, because it went so close to American policy. There was noth- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4499j ing that was ever against American policy in any way that I can think of.
Mr. VELDE. Well, just a minute. You recall the days when the White House was being picketed here by the Communist Party niembers, don't you ?
Mr. BuRRows. Oh, you mean that was during the period of the Nazi-Soviet Pact and what they used to call the American Peace Mobilization. I was not any part of any organization at all like that during that time. I got involved with these people in the 1943 period, sir. I belonged, as I stated in my testimony, I belonged to the American League for Peace and Democracy in 1947, and I resigned from it over the Soviet Pact, and I wrote a letter in which I thought it was a dreadful thing and I hated the whole idea of it and resigned from the Americaii League. When I got involved with these fellows, they were all sweetness and ligllt, back in 1943. because my stand, however,. on communisni itself, and on dictatorship never changed. I am a man who has been kind of antiauthoritarian in my thinking and their whole approach. I hate their whole approach that says any means to an end is o. k.
Mr. VELDE. You haven't answered my question specifically and I believe you can. Were you conscious of the fact that the American Communist Party line was being directed from Russia ?
Mr. BURROWS. I was during the pact, sir.
Mr. VELDE. During the pact. 
Mr. BURRws. During the Nazi-Soviet Pact. AMr. VELDE. Up to June 21, 1941, you were conscious that the American Communist Party policy was being directed by Soviet Russia .
Mr. BURROWS. I was.
Mr. VELDE. And then after that you say you weren't conscious of the fact.
Mr. BvRROWS. Well, to my eternal regret I was sucked back in. I knew that all of a sudden the Communist Party, on June 22, 1941, when the Soviet Union was attacked, all of a sudden said "Let's go to war," and everything changed overnight. I know that. That was June 22, 1941. Somehow or other 2 years went by, it became 1943, and I must say I was sucked-Mr. VELDE. Did you think, then, in 1943, that the American Communist Party line was not being directed by Soviet Russia, is that the reason ? 
Mr. BURROWS. Well, I guess I got sucked in by all of the statements that were made about unity. And if you remember Earl Browder was writing books.
Mr. VELDE. Well no, o just tell me about your feeling at the time you got back in with them, so to speak.
Mr..BiRows. My feeling was thatMr. VELDE. About the party line being directed by Soviet Russia.
Mr. BURROWS. My feeling was that they were sincere when they said at that time that they were an American directed party who were acting on their own.
Mr. VELDE. You thought all of a sudden they had changed and had divorced the Soviet Government completely?
Mr. BURROWS. Well, that they were going to act on their own.
Mr. VELDE. I must say, Mr. Burrows, you were pretty naive. 4500 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BunIOWS. Well, I would go stronger than that. I would say I was stupid. But I will say, sir, that the Duclos letter, the letterMr. Duclos evidently said of all of the Communists, they are all stupid and silly, and you guys, he said, don't know what you are doing, and he accused them of the very thing you are saying, that I got sucked in by. He accused them of breaking away from the Soviet line, you see.
Mr. VELDE. Well, I do not think he accused them of breaking away from the Soviet line, Mr. Burrows. All he wanted them to do was to return to the former militancy here in the United States.
Mr. BURROws. Yes. But as I recall, his letter was pretty strong. He accused them of a great many things. I know, as far as communism is concerned, as I say, I am the kind of fellow who could never go along with the kind of things that are called Marxist Communists, revolution, violence. I hate the whole idea of the dictatorship. You know, they tell you that the means are justified by the end. I don't believe that. I don't believe you kill people for their own good. They say they kill people to make a better world. Well, the world is made up of human beings, and all you do by killing people is make the world nonexistent. I want to try, really, to fight it. I think I can fight it best with my own weapons, which are what talent I have. I have a couple of ideas for a play next year I would like to do, an anti-Communist comedy. I have a couple of magazine articles I want to write, and I do hope I can prove how much I hate this whole thing. 
Mr. WOOD. I believe the record should show expressly your reply to the question as to whether or not you are now or have ever been a Communist. As far as I know, the record doesn't show an expressed reply from you in answer to that question.
Mr. BuRROws. Well, I think I explained it, sir. 
Mr. WooD. I know, but I will ask you the question now. Are you now a Communist ?
Mr. BURROWS. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party
Mr. BURROWS. Well, as far as I have ever been, as I said, I have never applied for party membership; if there is a party card with my name, I know nothing about it, but, as I said, I did associate with these fellows.
Mr. WOOD. I know, but you can answer that question in your own express way as to whether or not you have ever been or considered yourself as a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. BuRRows. I was considered a Communist.
Mr. WooD. You so considered yourself, too?
Mr. BuIoows. I was considered a Communist. In my own heart I didn't believe it, but I think I was considered a Communist, and that was the whole thing of my coming here to talk about Mr. Vinson's testimony.
Mr. WOOD. You say you were considered by others to be. You know yourself whether or not you were, don't you? 
Mr. BURROWS. Well, you see, sir, by all of the actions I did, all of the material things, all of the facts, I guess I committed enough acts to be called a Communist. I am testifying here under oath.
Mr. WOOD. Well, what would you call yourself? called yourself a Communist at that time? Would you have 
Mr. BURROws. Not in my own heart, sir. But I am here under oath, and I am here to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4501 truth, and there is an element of truth in the statement that I was a Communist, but there is also an element of untruth, and I am left in that position. 
Mr. WooD. We understand your position in that respect, but now can't you answer on your own as to whether or not you were ever a member of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. BuiRows. Well, I don't see how I could answer it any differently from how I did answer it. I would like anybody's help in this if I could have it, sir.
Mr. WooD. I understand about the witness who gave the testimony. You have given a clear answer to that, but you have not expressed yourself clearly as to what you have to say about it.
Mr. BURROWS. Well, sir, let's put it this way: I don't deny the truth of the accusations of the witness.
Mr. WooD. Any other questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. I might make one comment. You stated that you desired to use your weapons against communism.
Mr. BURROWS. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I might say our observations have been that ridicule is about one of the most elective weapons against members of the Communist Party.
Mr. BURROWS. They can't take it. I know in Russia, I read daily about what happens with writers there, and about Stalin likes an opera or doesn't like an opera, and he likes it to be serious. I read one item somewhere where they don't like jokes, they don't like funny stuff.
Mr. WOOD. May I resume? I cannot understand how at this time you can emphatically say you are not now a member of the Communist Party and why you cannot so clearly express yourself in the same manner as to whether or not you have ever been.
Mr. BURROWS. Because of my associations, sir, and the fact that I was around with those fellows, and I did go to meetings with them, and attended things with them. I have to go on this case by the objective facts of what other people thought and what it looked like. I was, by association-by association, sir, I can't under oath deny that.
Mr. WooD. Well, that is the point. You are not necessarily a Communist by association; I mean you weren't.
Mr. BuRRows. I didn't say I was by association. But I say they thought me one, and I was assumed to be one, and I am not denying they had a right to.
Mr. WooD. You mean to say that to a full extent you conducted yourself and participated in all of the Communist activities at that time with a reservation in your own heart ?
Mr. BuRRows. Yes, sir. That is very well put.
Mr. VELDE. And you did attend Communist Party meetings, knowing them to be such?
Mr. BURROws. Well, I attended meetings at which Communists were present. I still don't know whether study groups were Communist Party meetings, HICCASP meetings, radio writers' meetings; it is all kind of jelled together in my mind. Those were very bad years for me in the terms of personal trouble, and my mother and father both died, and I, as a matter of fact, had to seek help from a psychiatrist, and that whole period is kind of a painful, very painful period to me. 4502 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. Woon. I am sorry to pursue this line of thought further, but your participation in those organizations, you say, cast some suspicion upon you, as I understand it, that others considered you a Communist, but were you actually a member of the Communist Party or any of those organizations?
Mr. BURROWS. 1 have answered that, sir.
Mr. Woon. I do not mean Communist-front organizations or any other activities that would cast a reflection on you, but actually attend Communist Party meetings of Communist members.
Mr. BURROWS. As I say. I was at meetings which had Communists at them, and I was at these study groups I have told you about.
Mr. WOOD. And they were Communist Party meetings?
Mr. BURROWS. I imagine they could be called Communist Party meetings. I imagine so. I really am very vague on that. I am sorry if I sound overvague.
Mr. WOOD. Any more questions. Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir.
Mr. WooD. Any more questions, Mr. Frazier? Mr. Velde? The witness will be excused.
Mr. BURROWS. I would like to thank the committee, if I may. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will be in recess. (Whereupon, at 3: 05 p. m. the committee recessed until 10 a. m., Thursday, November 13, 1952.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF THE HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 10 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1952 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to recess, at 10:40 a. m., in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. Francis E. Walter, presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Francis E. Walter (presiding), James B. Frazier, Jr., and Harold H. Velde. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavemner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will come to order. This is a subcommittee appointed by the chairman of the committee this morning, the subcommittee consisting of Messrs. Frazier, Velde, and Walter, all of whom are present.
Mr. Tavenner, who is your witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Karen Morley is the witness.
Mr. WALTER. Miss Morley, will you raise your right hand, please ? Do you swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Miss MORLEY. I do. 
Mr. WALTER. Be seated, please. TESTIMONY OF KAREN MORLEY, ACCOMPANIED BY HER COUNSEL, VITO MARCANTONIO 