Mr. 'I'AvENNEit. Have both counsel identified themselves for the record f
Mr. MiNKus. Mr. Chairman-yes.
Mr. AI'AENNEI1. When and where- 
Mr. MINKUS. Mr. Chirman, I wonder if I might ask you to permit my couiisel to cross-examine the first two witnesses.
Mr. ,JACK ON. No. I am sorry, you cannot. 
Mr. MINUs.. May I request tlat my lawyer be permitted to make a statement, a bmief statement? 
Mr. JACKSON. The request, in line with the rules of the committee, is not agreed to. It is denied. M'. M vINKUs. May I myself make a brief statement? Mir. JXACsoN. You may file any statement you want with the committee. It will be considered by the committee.
Mr. MINRus. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. M4 (?OMM1JNIFI' hiIN 0111H 1.O AV'rVI 1111 ANONlIoPFM ANNA 11P.TIvRNMKI, WIIOI itnd Whore Wore ouO 1110411 lbit. hi ,rntto eChiei go~ III. NI 1.'IAV1INNrKU, wheA~i 
Mr. Miniw. ieo now rosido'dLiAg l Nir. IN1vr NIt 4. bN.NTNIMllIt. Wh(W rIuli 011I1 )H Aiymloos. b1i%. NiIwNiN. 1 i itlI 'tthtr. ctvit y, pleas, what. your 1t vtii you stitotot NIP-T'iAVIN Nt. XVIIIVI he4oti. ediueat onild, forillil Mileatiloud, t ridudolg 11111 CI a"fle.0 Ali-. MNiwt1s 1 111111 giIlldllulto of 0411110 Jlunior CooliO I vl'O''vell 111v' h~l~llolr of (0141iiet loutgl'eo with ho01101' (ioiti 11 111li'erllSty (ouli forulil ML 1A) Anugeles. NI r, TAEN N tu. ),low long ha1Ve yolt heout onliged In the t4'allufg prol'Wo$Ill I voars. bit-, MNKt1s 119 th v11tolitl it-tsol, j)10itow, whioi'& yoll Illive
Mr. ''M NER. illt volt (Otill emtoyvl its italelo beeRVII 010111 i UIedondo eity
Mr NK1114. le"0oi110113 to 10,117 1 wals i tecr 01111 hiell 0Iul))to)'d fil it twhools. Friomn 10167 titit II thoe )l'00lt tili twlichorl ill t Ito Lom At ev city selloots. Nl()l eoilt, ill the Ileicig rl'Oli Air, TORV1NNV~II . Ni'MiIls WIrO youV durling the t418t iiony (if hr.Lei~oy I letildoti V I At 06:4spohit1itr. h1111iils coutferreid With Nil-. E44t1,u11111.) ifr. AhNitils. Air. Owhirmaii, I didn't p'ay very uituch attentioul to it. Nil'. TAVNNIut. WlOrt V.011 )I'1'T.4t inl therin'ig roolit during Clio tostimonlv of Mr. Hicill-A It. Lws hit- AIluis. Same1atttswer, Mr. To veittlie. to Mh Air. TA.VENNK0. YouI 1)Rid IM0 tlIti t~esiuIODy Riher Mir. himusn. Not, Volry ntch. I hevard tiomei of it and i thought it Wit slied dive~l I -stop)4'd listening. Am i altte'r of (act, 1 walked wit 1i0 the hall several (11008. Mir. TIAMENNEI. Yi dlid not agree with What either of thorn were, saying abouIRt lte Comtnnn11ist Party ? (At this point Air. Alinkus coferr&'d with Mr. Estvrinun.) Air. AlN1118. If yo want to rereald their tivstinloty to me1, that is thing. Otbel'wfse, I do not wimsh to be bound, Air. TAvE.NNKn. What is there about, tieir testiniony that you disagrw.d With? (At this point Mr. Mlinknes conferred with~ Mr. Estertuan.) Air. MiNicu.. What 1didn't like about. their tostinioiy, Mr. Chairone 1)15-Mr. Tavenner, excuse meAir. 'hAtNNFu. I didn't ask what y'ou didn't like about it. I asked what N-olt disagreed With. 
Mr. WIY~.1hat I (disagreed with about their testimony, that 1180( for' at un1i0-bustitlg job tol this tilev allowed theillM'ives to hOQ city. And furthiermiore, I feel that they allowed thomsplves to be u."id to wakcif anid ttntertniie the whole causo of academic freedom, not only for los Atigeles but throughout tile country. Tiat fact did thley testify to that you conclude in Air. I'AflN4.IV your~ owI mind wrar lrt :rrect t (At this point Mr. Slittkub tonferred. with~ Mr. Esterinan.) (!1MMUIiAfT A(t1tiVIIE*4 IN 'THtG 1,09 ANOII.P AIWPA 1443 Ni r. MNNictyf. If~ you wvill t'ute'etil he11 tom~ti o Y It, will rli(fii Iby Mi.. TlAVIP.NNtI1,1 Youi a lnl of Nuiili i 1111.1 ye (1htli'tlctA'r youi ( At, hi4 p,' 'VHvNNi'.tt. your EliHi~grl'4itlenftN 1Yeir ae Itlhu1.1j le0ft. ItItoohi oil WI~VIII'Ill twci~t~oill. 
Mritt iI. hi lhtl1it14 I.oil foed within
Mr. EI.s-itian.) What, tssIlinotiy di1d either of thli givo which, 1'011'd I,ig it) yoiui'jitdgilaeat Willi errtollflotub4 Ow roin. Alii citt i III miito lenve th MI.a~ 0,Aui.
Mr.' TOH~lN NI1.tI. W1l4111lie1' It,(1,111416d hih11 co hIflt i' f tt I Wouldl ilue (At, Oils poi lit. hit'. hiikis ('ott ferr~il wvlth Afr. 'irnu) NI r. CIA1ewY. h 'I'AVeIIIIIIt W111111, litIe 't-IchIIde'i, I Wi1411 Youi Would task f'lueof liir ti iiota, I wia it. t) kicow Whly lie heft"
Mr. l~ttaa hI fniti-. ' N11titik Iom fittuu-d wit-bN ( At, Ib Illt not, reread114 ti- 1-f-Rt. Air'. h IN Itls. NI I'. 'IllV~ItIlet',r 141114 Yiou I bill that. 1to tikliftil jl 'uewill Imset'vud biy ily coliflIIIt. ()ft it li11,111/ w'ily. hi 1'. TlA',IALlf VtIs II-P fil'l tiy iftitomieiit madefhi by cutier I( d.ifflsu wita,.su's61 W1i01 $Oll MY t''Williaug to)1411W11 wis0t ta 41Y (At.' t i s fii NMe. Nl tilcoos 'otift't'0 il I, Mr.t i i , teruun.) of t11h1t. part .0which hi u'.hNII 15. If You WvIill I 1huo 941,111t1111111i1 youl rolf(r, I ill then 114 ulE''i1 wilu'thi''r I 4is to votiliiif'it Allt'. TlAVIANNEll. I ItiI (NcOi''lig fill Owthintut t Ilttuui of 11.01 ha itti (IS ninnty, At t?~if3PI101,I Niva. Ahii lcats cola ferret il M r,:'IEtefit, it.) All,'. hiNEC 11$4. '11101i go fitliiiul I111(1 rea t~ill of is t~e1.timrhty, Aill'. 'l'41VMN NKIl. Mir. 14 fiat thisi onily answer you will give to Clint (1l1i-.41 ionl V S Aill'. AfNIChA NIII K il i'h 111 litlH itWO1'. Alltr. htoiu,,*:t. AllI'., ( 1,Ail e-II rot . Alr1. #JACHMON. All'. Niollder. A'r. Nli'uv,:. Y'ou mlade somei reference to their temthinoray sup- Whtf explanation dit you have to make. on latissel'f ionI Nir'. AltrNicus. I read the hleadhite.9i of ono of the paper as I came if) po'tig utioil hustitg. U11101i. 'I'lliti 4aftMOltifi'OtiShiouIX. It is4, infactMr,. Movirovit. 'I'liuit isn't responsive to my (jieqtion. T ns~ked what was iII their testimony that had reference to union bust lg. (At this point Mr. fitikits c'onferredi with Mr. 1Esk-rian.) Mir. MiNKtiJ. I 1111not going to be Interrupted and I am not going to antswe'r the quest ion.
Mr. ScHIIERyl. Wait a minute.
Mr. #JACKSON. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mrl. TIAVENNER. Did the Communist Party succeed in capturing the local union that you were speaking of(At this point Mr. Minkus 'on ferred with Mir. Estermon.) 
Mr. '1'Av)'NNFt. Local 430, aind which you seem to take nit exception to, fromt the newspaper account? (At this point Mr. Mfi nkus con ferred with Mr. Esterman.) Mfr. EsTE!IMAN. Is there-soniiethmitg funny aboit this-., Mr. Chairman? Mfr. WAI,'R. There is nothing funny about it, but, after all- '54 ;OMMUNIST ACTIVITIR IN 'IM IM ANGOLKR ARMA - Mr. JAomnto. Lot's have order In the committee room. No exprew. 1ons of approval or disapprovtd, ifyou please.
Mr.JMciNAN, Thank you, Mr,Chairman, 
Mr. Mmzue. Mr. Tavenner, 1 will answer neither "Yeo' nor "No" to this question, and to all otiler questions like it. I do no for the follow- imng~ve reasonst.Thpy are bMief and succinct, and I would like to Ito able to state then%in full. No, 1, as an employee of the State of Californa I um subject to the ,statutory tenor provisions with whild the people of this Stato have seen fit to protect te rights of tie teachers of thehi Whihlhn. l'rheo are in division I of the State education code. Under tile law of this State, also, I huave subsclbed to all the required oaths and declarations relating to ily loyalty, including, to ti moner'Y, the following: ,iAoath o11 eceOiving imy tolllng credentials in 1934. A11 onth on 1roeivina my lifetime teaohlog ei d ential in 1042. The Los Allgehs bAt of lily Board of Edication loyalty reaoflirtmation oath in 1948. The State Levering Act oatlh of 1060. Also, 1 have taken approximately 4,000 pl)edges of allegiance during my 19 yeals of telshing. Since the 9th and 11Ytis amnmnts of tli Bill of Rights reservNd to tie pt1 ad an)plo to the States tile rights not expressly gi'anted to tIt Federal Government, I now Iivoko thet as a r4mmtritiohn 111)0 this committee and assert you have no power to invade the se rights and roquire of ne additional oaths anti declarations. 'No. 2. Since I have sworn its an employee of the State of California to support and defend the Constihtiion of the United States, and df the State of California, I calmot violate that oatth, nor will I he coipolled to repudiate that Oath. This requires that I resist any abridgment of constitutional' rights for myself anid for others. I have taught my students to honor and live by the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. I can do no less myself. NO. 3.The Education Code of California, section 18280, in one sentence states: Eitch teacher shall endavor to impress upon th mind of the h pils t1o principles of morality, truth, justle, anm patrlotsmn; to teavh thll to:avold idlene., profatly, anti ftlsehotil; to imtruct then in the liviiit ieg of free governuteut, and to train them titl to a tried comprehension of the rights, duties, and dgilty of American cltienship. I would repudiate this obligation if I failed to assert my rights be- fore this committee. No.4Mr. JACKSON. Have you almost conclidedI
Mr. MfINKUS. Almost.
Mr. JAOKSOX. If you will please expedite it.
Mr. MiNxus. The Federal Constitution includes in the fifth amendment the provision that no person may be compelled to bear wit ness against himself, a privilege which was (deignedfor the protection of innocent people, and I invoke each and every part of the fifth amendment for myself as a restriction upon this committee, and to help protect this basic constitutional right for all people, thereby fulfilling my oath as a teacher which I must not violate, to protect and uphold the Constitution of the United States. VOMMUIIW AC1Lz11II IN TJUN 1,0 545 ANGIPMES ARRIA so. 6. The F"ederall iollstit'lltloll illcu(Iem il t he first ah1llild' Ilmuat gIIltI'IldeN to freedom of belitif und asoclll loll, andt I invokim the 8111wiidii wait tIow, pariticulualy 1dl(' I lIeliovol am1it teacheiir t haitt fily 11lont~(i of theme I1 it's 1PIfT3W~4lt litHi rit,to) ueadielle freedom, for if teachers cannot tflink freely, Htu(Ient cannot learn to) tink ait all. Mfy sworin oligat hill 115it teller ref(lliro thaiit I remilst. filly~ tltfi uit to fremdoin of Finally, WK fnoly, il idulcItiolI bly ill(Illifiti10llH of t is ('01llIflitt,44 oIelngullge of tho( HIlprlo~ (IOu't, onl Ill' filly Monday of 0h14 I CIII lil right's tIuide, I h( irst. 1111lotlilullt (th o Bi(1lll o( ItgiOnt the 111ll of Pri vileges, beeiinse under' tho flrt, amlenld- Ililt, Chot(Coligre '1.1 mait iuke ft) lawl abridging thle frlE'(olin of Hjpmwh gliaige, if it coligresiolllal coliiiiiitlete (!il reolijuir file or anly other pil-oll to (ilseloso whalt I read yvext4rdaliy and wilt. I will ;-Pad tomiorrow, fearu will takke f1(1 lpllWo of freedoum inl the libraries, bookstores, 1111(1 homesW of thle 11111(, through 1iii, hlllIismilieiit, of Ilearligs, illvestigal is~reorItMVr. ,JAUIKl4(N. 1I1HillflOllY, th 111W hai i'oll"Cltle'd, thiis 15 ot it reason for' refuising to 11uttfi le qlB'st 1(11, anld Ilillems there is objec. tionl from (Ithli tiit'uiibers of thle ('omit tee 1I1am going to a1sk that t he WitlH 1104eiht. All'. MINIMS1. It is tile IglaIgiuag (if file S~uprelile (Court~. Mft. oJAOICHON. Th111lllglg of the 811St ipiene Court ill, twhat we wanlt Is Your' lan1gualge Inl the forfix of ('0t11fttionla reiaoiis wily Youl will Hlot lilswuer. '7'110 (le(islolls of the Suiprenie C.ourt dot Ilot apl3111 to tule to beat- 113)011 your'd'ltaii to l1ItWlll'. 111'. MINKIIH. I Would Hie to filuishi liy ans1wer, Mi.. (111illan. Mi'. JACKHON. I 11111 sorry, hblt I do hot" feel t hi11t. it, is pertinlent 1101. res4I)Ili0y to the (11108tiohl that was lisked, n101 does, it bear upon your (liled decliniation. MP'. T1AVE~NNER. Mr. ChairmanMi1. MINIC1us, Mil. Chairflan,$I haIvenl't finihed Air. Suniplmoi. #justa Inoluicit, Witness. Ail' JACKsON, )ild DO YOU halve othor legal grounds for your r-efusal to filiswer thle questionV
Mr. MINius, I hitve, but I Iave notflinishied. 
Mr. TAYENNEJI. All' JACKHON. beg your pardlon. It is; fot nlecessary for you to explain your position; it is only necessary for' you to take your stand upon the Constitution. We aire not going to listen to a great deal (ofargument about It.
Mr6 CLJARDY, Mr. ChaIIilmnn$a 111(1suggest, lin view of the fact that hie h1as already mentioned the flithIanl nt and since that is the only one which~ canl be rccofli , I submit that his answer is complete. Mir. JACKSON. If the witness, has anly other constitutional pounds upon which Ito wants to take his stand, the committee will he~ar the Constitutional grounds. Wve wil not hear lentyxjlato. We have borne with the ivitnemq nowv for some 15 minutes. I think that the witness cani abbreviate his statement considerably.
Mr. MiNKus. If you had waited, Mr. Chairman, I would have finlished in about ii minutes-5 lines. M r. ESTERHAN. Five lines. 31747-53-pt. 2-8 540 COMMUNITY AUIVITINS IN '1111 LO olog to 1isto 
Mr. JAmO Ou. We ore not. ANOKNHR AIWA to the Suprome Court disiont. I doi't think that tliy Bro pterlotit to thi llht4olronttlio. If yOll have ally ither colis Itutioll Iellsio40, j)lon(o advance tiem at this time, ir, lsTt tIhAN. Ciin we nso'tlrtai whore we weel'o i1te1'rpteod I
Mr. ,lA)CKHO, Will the opotell'r diolte'utlll wowi Oil the t'(('Ot'(Iwho'll where were Wlhen we M('Iltlid the poihit Involving thle S 1ruea11 Cou r1t. (i0oisio11 I (The following l)ortho of the r cord wis reoad by tile retlot'tmr:) 4 * b fear wIll t hllnee ohk ln tli fr'i oim I the liI llirarlt'h4, limikstilIem' , 1and lrlaitllent t of ltiutI'ltigt, htlve~tItliutili4, t to lMild, throtlh thi reports * * * 
Mr. CIAIIY, Mi. ( larh'tllt,| I tritst thil wittiss tle(|l'tndiil(n lie In not to le perimitte'd toroald the Ilnce of thttlein Mi. JACKsON, I IellOOlthl WitNPH)S8 1111d1lltdildS. Mfr, MINK . I haveolly 4 1/2 Ieus,
Mr. (JrAIPY. YOll 11ldWsti-(ld yoU o'e n1ot. permitted to read It, sih. NOw, desist front that.
Mr.I,,' '4IthfMAN.Maiy we pOlt out this IsiI legal reason for refusing I Air, t1 Amviwq. I iin't we thit. The euonimittee knows nioi)e of the flcts with irspet to t his ctse or' upon4l whiat tho eise h111dhi arlig. For all we know it iay hlve btvi 'it hitter oitirely illirehited to th llnatter ioW undeiir iivestgliat-ton. I tlihik tile witness hits bein given oerey O)po'tulity to set. forth in 8oiie d taIl 1lia 1'oll0s for iefilsinig to answer thle qIlestiois oil cost Ittioil goidllIs. I wish that the witnesls would cooperated with the cOinlittep to-that extent.
Mr. MiAlKuS. 1 request, Mr. Chairman, that you then withdraw the question. 
Mr. JAcKso. Is thi'o a liidzi question I
Mr. TAVF.NN., Yes. 'l'htl IleSt IOtwits wletlher oir hiot. he knew tlat tile Communist. Party endeavored to obtain control or influence over the Teachers' Union, which was the matter which lie objected to that apvared in the daily press. 
Mr. MINKUS. I don't imeai to be disispectful but I stbmllit I have not finished my answer, which has only 4/2 lines and contains i legal reason. It seems to tile that I aim entitled-to give tile reasons for my opinion.
Mr. CLART. Is that 4h line. from the decision from which you wore reading when the interruption took place? Will you answer that question, WitnessI
Mr. flsMA. No - lie will not.
Mr. JACKSON. I will ask counsel not to answer for the witness.
Mr. ESTURMAN. I apologize.
Mr. JAcvsoN. The witness is capable of answering these questions.
Mr. Mhixs. I will not answer that question.
Mr. CLARDY. I ask, Mr. Chairman, that lie be directed to answer it.
Mr. JACKSON. I so direct.
Mr. f-ivxus. I am reading from my own notes.
Mr. JACKSON. Will you answer the question?
Mr. EsTMrsaAN. What is the question?
Mr. JAcKsoN. The question wiich has been asked by counsel.
Mr. MoULDF.R. May I ask a question at this point?
Mr. CLRm. Let him answer this one first. COMMUNIST AOTIVITINA IN TIIC LOS ANO0i1IJh AIICA 547 
Mr. MINKUS, Iliig(ill.4 14.li May v I, pletu, How prooee(d wit-1 the nwor to the M11% ("hAIID.Y Witlitim, I have propouniled it(iustioi to you, and yell hatvoeiell dirteil,
Mr. JAVICHO(N, JIIx Itnioniont. l)o .ell llwo it 1wii(lilsg (lllestihllI,Mr. COlllO I M'. 'TAVIONNI'I. YO. 
Mr. ,ACusIIN. lut04 dispose of that.
Mr,TAV:NN4II. ie hlw1giveni Rix 'enoitOli, probably. tho 1114t illnelldilllli( .- Mi '. I'14TAIlIMAN. 1ie i 1inishluig1 'lie last IN his sixth, illIlbtoit, 10 sPeoINs(i. 
Mr. 'I'AVPNNKII, The witness was reading from the decision of the (olIr, ill r'giilrd to It.
Mr. (,hAitoy. And lny (ltielon waitsa to whether or not his romltulption of reading the 4!/ liies wis itcoimpletions of thsit, citld we have (filrteetwd to 1iliwer. not leid a11n i1l55Wor to titt, find yot hi 1itm1),wII I wish ycsii Woilhlll'5em for filanswer to Olt, MI. 'l'AVSNNet.I YO. You si1ted you 1111% ielldig from youir niote. But aire not thoe iote( a copy of the decision which you referred tot Mi. MINIC11$. My soteti itomy tiotem, and I am not riuired to tell you,
Mr. WAnrV'T1. ,JieIt it IllitA,. YOU I41til4 lho1*1lettn IIt'0 Yo1.r 1i0e1a You never a1wO tIo IOt(% IIl ) to itiniOit ago, bi,)(3 o I SiJLw '. lHtArman hand then to you. Air. (LAlR)Y. I thalt not tru,1e, Witness? Mi, '.NTNMAN. Just don't iy iything. M'.CLARmY. 'rhitt i ii (jItstion ai(hressd to him, find will cousnel ples refrain f,'oin snaking audible comment?
Mr. ETI'BIMAN. If you wouldn't listeniso hard you wouldn't hear it. AMr. CI ,AIY.I sugget that while counsel hus a right to confer, fie (loo. riot have the right to put the answer in the ioith of the witness.
Mr. JACKpSON. h'lmat should be well understood. I believe it is un(lerstood by all counsel rep)resetnting witnesses before the committee, that they are here for the purpose of advising their clients on constitutiolial questions, when that advice is sought by the client.
Mr. CL,.luny. Not to manufacture answers.
Mr. ESIm-nMFHN. I beg your pardon. What did you say?
Mr. MAI91NJAL 4 . May I address myself to the Chair?
Mr. FsTERMAN. Did you say manufacture evidence?
Mr. MARS11.ALL. Was that tile statement?
Mr. ESTRUMAN. Just take it back.
Mr. MARSHAL I. Do you withdraw it?
Mr. CiAnny. I do not withdraw anything. Will you be seated and remain quiet, sir?
Mr. MARNSAULL. Does the chairman tell me to be seated?
Mr. JACKsON. We will please have order here. We will take these things up inorder.
Mr. E4ITRMAX. I think that a good time to take that up will be now. That is a contemptible statement.
Mr. MARSHALL May we take that up now ? 
Mr. JACK sON. If you will be seated we will take the matter up in order. I do not intend to have counsel take over this committee session as long as I ani sitting here. '48 .VOMUNIST ,ACTVITIRi IN, THEU ,0S ANGELVS-. AiRA 
Mr. MAMII AUL May I)stand and address the 
Mr.--- chairman I am: Informed by the gentleman, from Michigan that ho said "answers."
Mr. ErMANA. This answer was manufactured by the Supreme Court of the United States. mThe paper you hold In your hand was manufactured
Mr, JAoiSoW. by someone, I don't know whom, but certainly not by tie Supmino .Court of'the United States. It was just handed to the witness several minutes ago. ir. MARSHALL. Must wo submit our books and paper to the tom. I.. .mn tteel ,
Mr, JAoxSoI4, That has not been suggested. Counsel, I wish you would press for the answer to the question now pendnlg, and let's get on with the or hrly conduct of this committao.
Mr. MNV. I still have not finished my answer to the last question.
Mr. TAV NNE. Mr. Chairman it is purely a question of whether or not he will be permitod to read tie rust1 of the opinion from the Court consisting of four lines.
Mr. JACKSON. If it will ffaCilitate the meeting, and it undoubtedly will, without objection on tie part of any nionfier of the committee, these four lines may be concluded. However, thereafter and for the bahce of these hearings-at least at sutel times as i have the,chair-?these long statements are not going to be permitted above and beyond those necessary to identify the portions of the Constitution upon which the witness is basing Itis declinations. The witness nay continue.
Mr. MINKUs. Thank you very ntuch,
Mr. CiARYr. May I be sure that this is conditioned upon the fact that he admits that ie is reading the decision of the court? If he does, I have no objection to his finshing.
Mr. JACKSON. Proceed. Air. MINRS. Thank you very much, Mr. Jackson, (Continuing to read.) Through the harassment of hearings, Investigations, reports, andsubpenas, government will hold a club over speech and over the press. Congress could not do this by law. The power of investigation is also limited. Inquiry into lprsonal and private affairs is precludel, and so Is any matter in respect to which no. valid legislation could be had. .. I have finished and thank you very much, Congressman Jackson.
Mr. JAcKsoN. Continue, Ar. Counsel. Nfr. TAvE mNr. Mr. Chairman, the only ground assigned for refusal to answer the question Which is recognized as a valid ground by ihi namely, the. fourth matter which committee was thebut s voluntary it occurs to me thatlieinmentioned lihton fifth amendment, statement he has waived the fifth amendment when he stated to the committee that he had seen an article in the press which larged that by the testiniony of certain witnesses the Communist Party had taken over the Teachers' Union and that this was absolutely not truet or words to that effect. So I think I am entirely within my rights in insisting upon an answer to questions relating to his knowledge or lack of know edge of th Cnimniunist Party effort to influence and control' that union of which he spoke. COMMiJWIHT AIVITIM IN' TFF, IA AN(OPJEKR AIMA 49 
Mr. So(mntwit. I think counsel is absolutely right.
Mr. ,JARI(OJN. Proceed Mr. Counl.
Mr. Somitr,t, Wasn't thit a voluntary statement on his part? 
Mr. 'I'AVNNxit. A voluntterd stItemnelt, . Not in answer to anly questlon.
Mr. TAVKNN11II. | wnt. to ask thli witness whether he tx)ok fiy * Mr. C(ifnA part ill itCommuillst 1i1ini'y effort to colltrol-or let nie change the quest on, I want, to ask this witness whether or miot lie knows of any effort mflllo by the COlillullimt l'ity to iiflnene and control this leaclhero' Local lUnion 430 in Los Angies. (At this point Mr. Mlnkiis conferred with Mr. Estorman and Mr. Marshall.) 5 repeat t1s llieStlO, plaCse?
Mr. MiNIus. Will C01i110 * Mr. 'AVPNNKR. I expect lattor have tile ropor er read the questions. M'. JAkIsON. The r0roiir Will r01d the (110HtiOll. (The question was read.) iIn answer to this qleotlton i wish to
Mr. MiK~ti S. MI °. Chain, ad(optill full the answer which I gave, preViously to a similar jiiestioni, and nmy It, e (leeied that it is iy anwer in full as I gave it, witho(t repeating t1
Mr. JA(I(CSON. You (teelinte to answer the question?
Mr, MINKVu. I an answering the question. M1. JACK1ON. You are answering tile question? sis I gaivei before,.
Mr. AfiNituS. The inoaswe
Mr. JACHRON. For thle same reastinO MINKtUN. And for thie slio rejisls. (M.thairman rAVRNNYlr.
Mr. t I sllggest that tile witnessi be direoed to answer.
Mr. JrACKSON. InaslMUC-h Is the StItelneult anflde was a voluntary statement that did not coms as a result of a qleostioli directed by colunlsel or any member of the committee, the witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. MtXmus. Which question is that?
Mr. JACKSON. Tiit is the question WhiCh is now pending. (At this pdint Mr. Minkuis conferred with Mr. E,-terman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. JACKSON. l)o you want the question read again ? Read it, Mr. Reporter. (The question was reread.) (At this point Mr. Minkuis conferred with Mr. Estorman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. MINKUS. Mr. Chairman, I wish to repeat again the answer that I gave before in full, and may it be considered that it is adopted in full without my repeating it, and I would like to incorporate without repeating the earlier answer this addition, that the policies of the union are and have been determined by the membership in open meetir. JACKSON. My understanding is that you persist in your declistanding upon the you, nation to answer the question that was asked same grounds you gave at the opening of the hearing?
Mr. MiNHus. The record will speak for itself.
Mr. JACKsoN. Do you so decline to answer the question?
Mr. MiNRus. The record speaks for itself, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. 550 COMMUNIST' ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. CILAwY. Is that the 'only answer you will give I I ask that he be directed to answer it, Mr. Chairman. (At this poiiit' Mr Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. marshall )
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. It seems to me that the witness must answer or decline to answer. * Mr. CLARm. He has done neither yet. stand on the record, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MixKus. I will
Mr. CLARY. You ' what? ,
Mr. JACKSON. All right, Mr. Counsel. Proceed. 
Mr. TAVENNERI. Mr. "Minkus, on what do you base your statement that the newspaper. article carrying an account of the hearing was false? May I amplify that question a little, so that there wfllbe no misunderstanding about it?
Mr. ESTEIIAN. I think you misquoted the statement. May we have it readV
Mr. TAVENNER. I am sorry. I didn't hear you.
Mr. ESTE IMAN. I think you misquoted his statement.
Mr. TAvNNzt. Mr. Reporter, did you get the statement at the beginning of the testimony that he volunteered?
Mr. -REMoMrn. I was not here.
Mr. TAFENNFip. Then I will have to rely upon my recollection. I understand that the reporters have been changed since the witness took thp stand, and that the reporter who is now present was not here at thAt time.
Mr. CLARDY. Well, ask the witness what he said.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Minkus, did you not state in effect to this com- mittee that you had seen an article in a paper which you referred to the testimony that was taken here this morning, and that that article was to the effect that the Communist Party hadtaken over the Teachers' Union, teachers local union, in Los Angeles, and that you bitterly denounced that fact as being false. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. MINi us. I prefer to rely on the record, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. CLARDY. Mr. Chairman I ask that he be directed to answer.
Mr. JACKSON. The question is somewhat involved. If it can be put in the form of several short brief questions it would greatly facilitate the answering, I think, and also clarify the matter for the chair. I don't 7',iow that I fully understand the import of the question myself.
Mr tAvENNER. Mr. Minkus, will you state what you told the committeu"? Mt,. MINxus. It is in the record. 1 .'. TAVENNER. Well, what is it? At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. ScriEni. I move that the witness be directed to answer. 
Mr. JACKsON. Mr. Counsel, is there any way you can rephrase that question or bteak it down?
Mr. TAv.wm. Yes; I think I can.
Mr. Minkus, did you not tell the committee that It was untrue or that it was false that the Communist Party had gotten control of the local union, the local Teachers' Union in Los Angeles? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 551. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. MiNKus. I think that the best way to get that is to bring in the record. I don't feel that I am required to engage in any memory test.
Mr. JAoKsox. Mr. Minkus, are you a member of the Communist Party? (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. MiNrvus. I will answer neither yes nor no to this question and to all other questions like it, for the following reasons: No. 1Mr. JAcKsoN. The reasons have already been given, if those are the reasons upon which you relied originally. Are they the same reasons? (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. MirNus. I wish to give my full answer, unless the question is withdrawn.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, the question is not going to be withdrawn and the committee is not going to listen to a review or to a prolonged argument on the question. You have advanced 4 or 5 reasons for your declination to answer a previous question. I am asking you whether these are identical to the reasons that you gave before. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. MiNKUs. Thank you very much for waiting, Mr. Jackson. I would like to give in full the answer that I gave previously, if that will be allowed.
Mr, JACKSON. You decline to answer that question ?
Mr. MINKUS. I have answered the question.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you decline to answer the question for the reasons previously stated? 
Mr. MiNKUs. I have given my answer.
Mr. JACKSON. Your answer has not bee~given. I have asked you if you are a member of the Communist Party. I should like to have a yes or no answer or a declination upon constitutional grounds. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman and Mr. Marshall.)
Mr. MiNKus. In that case I would like to give my reasons.
Mr. JACKSON. Are those the same reasons you read into the record at the outset? 
Mr. MINHus. They are.
Mr. JACKSON. Is it essential that you read them again at this time, or is this just a-delaying tactic on your part to further delay and harass the committee and handicap its operationsI Your previous answers are a matter of record here.
Mr. MINKUs. Which part of your question am I to answer?
Mr. JACKSON. You can answer any part of it, pick out any part you want, Those are the same reasons you advanced, is that correct?
Mr. MINKUS. Yes.
Mr. JAcKsON. Which are already in the record.
Mr, MINKU&: Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. It is your intention, as I gather from your testimony, to refuse to answer the question for the reasons previous given?1 .Me, lAttsm, tINiu (Al Iolpt tht ImtiiWop h tit goov beof~ (1011. givimmiait Jwsn i,~JApibtho. Yoti doeliti to ioiswoi thitt, polontw I (At Clhis point Ate, Alinltti oferrod witi Air. IAi4'i'uai andi Mr, Miu'shidl.) AltIINMIM ~IH t I luiVO fdol)Ptedt(110 I Ie In11tav MAO 1forep. AlP. ,IArIKNI)N That Is iot ii* jimsIve to tCli' inn.~lll Do You (d0. tillItio t otiswoi' the U~leatioti hli iti ladigI (At this% loit MI'. iokut; eoni tei with Air. l10i4trimi itil lAiI' IAtlttKt I am pittinfi'd with dhp record. Air, (ItANOYIT. A Uohiriiin 10(111 that4111 thoee 11111Y ho nio 1(it i11n lin 0thi %*irii I (110 t e ltit hitty t41(ittlit, prixtiotdileA oii is 'tepiet by thist eotitittveo I now~ asmk thiat yot tileet fidin to0 at1i4WOiw Mir. JAJK#OM, 4'1103 witti'q iA dfietpii to Iiitswel' 1h11t'41~~I (itt thim point. Aitr. 1Atnkiw eooerrt'i vti Nlt', tolad Alit. M11rshKL) Air. AtIptims. I hatve 1111wWehIII the quctle.o antd I have askeld dihat It. lie adop)~ted, that Cleiot 11114ei 1 give jpreoYtilmy It IlttiIt" Clito filsi.r to thill qut1iOn1 MAr JACK~SON. I beg to 4hitter with VOII. YOU haNVe notA 1i,,sW111-411 lionl. How do you answer it? (hopoint Mir, inki eoliferred wit-I Mre. VNslei'aau.) ti.MtwKivs. I will he gladi to repeait liy answer' In fill. Air. Ci.AWV. That you will i'&iioil thle taisote tot, delinhig, or do you hime Rnoiw a18weli' to gv (At. thiti point Air. hltikus eoifered with Aitr. Esterinan.) MP, WAI.TtItt Air, RIstettli yVou jutt maid to your' eliont, "Donl't alliqwr tChAt" Air, i'0sTNIMAN. YOO I diu, Air. WVm*, I don't thiltik that You understand why or how you beI htero~. Yoll till not hlere Its it matter of iit. 3M r. HATKHl~MAr. Anit I here at your grace t
Mr. WVtmia. Tito gratce of Clio coittititteo. MP'. MMM'tMAN. I Ri110 htei'edidhitT tg Illy ditty 0 t Liii1ttiit' of th10 bar of thle State of C2aliforntia. I will givelily clikent tile advice I thinkl Ile should have. You w~ill nioi tell tile how to advise ily Client. MAkr. Wti-Tm. You arti putting words lit tile witness' 211)1th. Air. BsmmbI. I told hint not to answer. 1 repeat lie is'not to answer that last question.,
Mr. JAcrtso?. it, has been quite evident since the outset of til hearing that not only has the wt tess tven advised onl his constituttional rights and the constitutional problems Involved, but hie has been instrixted as to what answers he should give verbatim.
Mr. MARSlIALL May we be rentoved so we are not so close to the 1t hear uts conferring with our clients# ceauntittee and they Mi'
Mr. Wmxpxa. You don't mean conferring, you mean intru ltist
Mr. N~nsnAuL, That is not so. Do you care to withdraw thatt, as one lawyer-to another lawyerI hakppe411 to 'Mr. WA&LTzER. No. 
Mr.ARSHtALt. Will you make it good? Will you make it good?
Mr. WALT"R. YMa 
Mr. EaRw. May I make a statement# I would like 'to be heard. le has made a remark- 1VOMMUNt4Jf A(YrIV110~4 IN T1114- IA)f4 ANUIUAi~S AWJA 5 Ai'. RM'1'''IuIMtAN. 'Iti0 ('01it1t11f temiti gfitII('hiiit(t; to it uio'miark (it 41Ittt111(ill t10 IIW14WOP ilo I tiitk that IN (,VIlit, 0)i 1ii111 1 li' hilli, (I1,.AtY. I tik I toy bo It4'I(te~t ~ ( ltepte140et1f C Vt (A~Y&leI p)0lffttt4: Mb 1. Il.) b*e 14111,4111 (or (lie inarmial fle1e111tdh lleililitg 1-00ot fit011114 Atli', TlAVIIINNti A wimit'44 b the Clio ii (of Afix Hilveri-d wanit tot be ut't11ilt lii wit itt'NN itt limIelifjg. (At141ui point, PdA'. PdA Inkoet ut forred withI Mi., I'emlit1.) All'. TiA4'BNNII. 1f pil Iteieat ('(ilpleftd tcoiieiriitg wil.h coiltle, I wilIl wit itte16 1youl dit, Alt'. .NlINI(IN,.1 heave. Allt'. IAVi:N N ;;i. A wit ti'144 by 4lie mimew of Afix Hi 1w',, whO wJ114 Aligle. (Couiatiy, tent ieti ill (xIX('ttiV1 MI'X14i(Jii bifOl'' 1,1( IP C01iiiiflittA( oiiIJt titet'ivtitt Ativitien onl *Jatiteiy '2, I962s ill idetifyig per14011H Ikiowti to 10itia toq htave beeti Ifnefihorm' of thie Collnitiafit, I fity, alit( Aiiaitiini Mtikig, fe'n.hi'r, ili (sool $lm tite. AruI ugrgsniP.r il for the ;erofs-4t',nii 1114,1t11, fiui'uiiiet'i' firf ill' ('11iiiit y 'iuht (I Were yoo tt oite fttite li tu'eflot orgnnizei for Clio profetmionua i('I IM,1 of thu (Colimtminfim, 1artY hI14 Angelf-? Mt,. MaNitIR11H. te ~t oeituii't (At1 I Iin potit Ma', NIinkmtt oiferi'ed withI Mr.141,4f.erninti.) (UeP(IteITH11uit i h-1110+('i4 1I0.Watslter h-ft thle heit'i'tg room tit thkit liit, 4.:10 p). tin.) 
Mr.- Pd INIC tI, I Wi~it to 1dopt. thf.11 t14wf'rP I1gatvi previotadly, ecili0i1tiaig #of five poilitm. If yoll wi~h, I will ropmatftiem. Alt' 'rVIINNtlit. A14 I iitlet'ntitd, youI 111- 1(f401g 10 nii)'Wer 6h, (lit-st til oil tflip 141 e i-ottitM y~OuhaiveIIre~vi(Jitnly nit4g1ied ? ~tt.1lk point, Mr. GIitimu -oltiferrel wit.), Mr. 'mnt'rmian.)
Mr.fIt.(IN Ishtfitld of11P he 'cor't. M'. Sollmtt,,i. I tiiij, be 1)1114 tiever maid1( that, "I (ldlit to answer MI'. ''AVEN NERi. ltItcould hve noother meaning. M!".10,1TIMrAN. We1,tl)ltlflt(-hliedidn't,. MP'. (rAnuv. I iRhouldn't bp ad~drelsing you at all. We do liot ree1EPTRUMAN, I wanted to agree with tile Congressmnan over there.
Mr. CLAIII. J 1111dei'tbod yoll. M11.JAVIKAON. Proceed2I MrV. Counsel. MI'. 'I'AVPINNPm. Mr. Silver further U-i.fled in the following mannoer, in regard to the quemtions that were asked him. Quesetton. 1)d tilt'I4 ten('hert represent vorino branches of the educational 
Mr. Xyxtem of the community, much ns the public schools, the universities and private schoolou? 
Mr. Oznxii. I have no information. Question. Do you know how many members were In the branch?
Mr. SILVr.R I believe 15 or 20, Question. Who wait the orgatnizer of the group, it yon know? lir. SiLVIEJ. The most active tfeher that, participated in tkp. general life of the party was Abe Minkus. An a matter of fact, he was at ofe, time organizer of the Professonal Section. 5541 1COMMUMIST-AOTIV1TIZB" 3M TMH ,3O3LGUBAM W Is there anything about the testimony 6f Mr. Silver which was untrue? At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterinn,) r, MiNKus. I wish to adopt in full the answer which I gave pro. viously to a similar question) and which I will give to all future questions of the same kind) the answer consisting of ive points, which ? will toglad to repeat if you wish.
Mr. MOULD9t. Then you don't wish to deny those allegations testified to by the witness,--lhat was his name? 
Mr. TAvrsNR. Max Silver. (At this point Mr. Mtnkus conferred with Mr. ,lstoernnn.) r. MINKus. I wish to adopt in full the answer which I gave proviously to a similar question, and Which I will give to all fui'o q110s. tions of the same kind, consisting of five points. I will repeat it, i you wish.
Mr. CLARDY. Just a moment. So there will be no mistake on the record, you are declining to answer that or any other questions along that line on the five grounds which you have read into the record Do I understand you correctly? You can answer that yes or no. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. MINKUs. I will stand on the record.
Mr. CLARnY. Will you answer it "Yes" or "No"? (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman.) 
Mr. MiXNus. I will stand on the record.
Mr. CLARDY. I ask lie be directed to give an answer. lie can explain after he gives his yes or no Mr Chairman.
Mr. JAcKISoN. I have te feeling the witness is not answering di- rectly. He is directed to answer the question. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman.) 
Mr. MINMS. I will stand on the record.
Mr. JACKSON. Continue, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAvENF.R. Dr. Light Louise Light., also testified about the Committee on Un-American Activities and identified you as a member of the Communist Party. Do you deny the identification here? (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman.) 
Mr. MimRUs. I will adopt the previous answer, Mr. Tavenner, with the8 points. I will be glad to repeat it, if you wish,
Mr. TAVENNER. Anne Kinney, also known as Jane Howe, testified before the committee on December 22, 1952. She told the committee she had joined the Communist Party in 1933 and remained a member until 1945. She was a member of the group of the Communist Party which was organized within the Teachers' Union Local 430. Both she and the two witnesses who appeared on the stand this morning, that is, Mr. LeRoy Herndon and Mr. Richard B. Lewis, all three testified that you were a member of that group with them. Was their testimony true or false? (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. TAvvNNF:I. The testimony of any them, was it true or false?
Mr. MINKUS. I wish to adopt in full the answer which I gave proviously. I vould like it understood that in answering thus I am including all of the points which I included in my original answer. If that is not understoxl, why, I will read them now-I will give them now. Is that understood, Mr. Chairman? Is it understood I include all the points? - 44 COUMUNIST ACTIVITIES 1l4' TILU 140 ANGOIIS AREA 55 lot the record speak for itself. confirred with Mr. ERstrmito.) Mlnkus
Mr. this point (At
Mr. 'I'AVmNtn. Me, Chairman-Mr. JAOICAo . We will 
Mr. ESTmHIHAN. We haven't finished our answer. I thought you had deeliwlel to answer, Witness. (At this point Mr. Mirikus conferred with Mr. EsterilnLn.)
Mr. CQAnny. Did you declino on the grounds stiited or did I mistlndor t,,nd you I Tihat is the question. (At this point Mr. Minkus cotferi-d with Mr, Estterinn.)
Mr. MiNlus. I would like to give my answer.
Mr. (LARDY. M r. (hAImDY, I would like you to giveyour tillawer. What is it?
Mr. MiNitU. I will answer neither "Yes" nor "No" to (lis qtuestiont and all of l0e questions like it-Mr. ,JAO(SON, The witness will suspond.
Mr. MiNaus. May I finish my answer?
Mr. JA0oIoN. You may not finish your answer in this form and fashion. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. JAoKsoN. ''hose dliltory tactics, these tactics which are do. signed to slowdown the action of life committee and to ti)totald to toe.dance around the fifth amendment may be all right in jour mind. llowover, the time of the committee anid the time of the Congress of the United StatAs is not going to be taken u) in that fashion. You have stated you stand upon the 5 points you madeA~Plao] huse.].. 
Mr. JACsON. Order in the hearing room. Te audience will please refrain from any expression of approval or disapproval or the marshal will be asked to cleat the room. You are not going to take up the time of this committee any further with these long hrangues and these attempts to make a sounding board out of the committee. If you have anty constitutional reasons you can give its lucidly and briefly, the committee will be very happy to hear them. We are not going to hear two pages of prepared propaganda read before the committee for a second time. (At this point Mr. Minkus confers with Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. MINKUS. Do I understand the question has been withdrawn? 
Mr. JACKSoN. The question has not been withdrawn. The question is still pending. (At this point Mr. Minkus conferred with Mr. Esterman.)
Mr. MtIKUs. Then I will have to give my answer.
Mr. ScitaimF. . The record disclosesMr. MiNKus. What answer do you want?
Mr. SoEnRt. The witness refuses to answer the question propounded by Mr. Tavenner for the same reasons he has given before.
Mr. JAcKSOz. That is all right.
Mr. Scimnp.n. That is the end of that question. Now we are ready for another question.
Mr. JAcicSov. If that is the answer, that the answers previously given, or you stand on the answers previously given, that is quite all right with the committee.
Mr. MINKUS. I do so.
Mr. JACKSON. Proceed. I suggest the witness be temporarily excused and be pnR.
Mr. TAV directed to return at the morning session. (56 T 'CoMMMWr:ACTMTB"INT AREA "'WSg.AoELES 
Mr. EsTwKAN.May I point out I will not be here? Phoenix. 
Mr. TAVwN. I will be in I overlooked that fact. I suggest he return Mon- day morning.
Mr. E'm WiAN. We will wait until, you bring the record in. Isn't it in the building?
Mr. CLARDY. It is not the fault of the committee or of counsel that this matter necessarily must be carried over until tomorrow, and I think it should be carried over and completed tomorrow. The business of the committee demands us to finish up here soon, so we may be back at our work in Washington, as you well know. I suggest that we should call this man again in the morning and conclude it. Counsel well knows, because we have all practiced law for some time, that these changes come about and are necessitated many times. I suggest we call him tomorrow.
Mr. ESTRRMAN. May the record show I discussed this with Mr. Tavenner and that he knows I am leaving by plane in the morning and I will not be back until Sunday night. He knows that.
Mr. JACKSON. What suits the convenience.of counsel in this matter?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I do know that counsel cannot be here because of other plans he has told me about. And other witnesses that lie had were put over until Monday, for that reason. I think this is a rather important phase of this witness' testimony and I would not like to see him deprived of any of his counsel during that period. I think we should either get the record this afternoon or we should put it over until Monday morning.
Mr. CLAiDY. Then I am prepared to stay until we get it. I want to c nplete this while it is fresh in my mind.
Mr. JACKSON. Several of the committee members have important meetings at this time and other obligations. Therefore, it is necessary that we terminate today's hearing at this time. The witness will be set for Monday morning.
Mr. ESTERMAN. Ten o'clock?
Mr. JACKSON. Ten o'clock, Counsel.
Mr. TAVEmNER. What time are you going to convene on Monday?
Mr. JACKSON. The committee will convene at 9: 80 on Monday morning. Tomorrow morning the committee will convene at 9 a. m.
Mr. EBTERMAN. At 9: 80 Monday we will be here.
Mr. JACKSON. The committee is adjourned. (Whereupon at 4:83 p. m., the hearing was recessed until 9 a. m. Saturday, March 28, 1953.) INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA-Part 2 SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 1953 UNiD STATi S Houst or REPREYSENTATIVES, Cof0m'r. o; UN-AmvERo^ ,ANIV n?, Lo8 Angele8, Calif. PUBLIO MARINO The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjourmnent, at 9: 08 it. in., in room 518, Federal Building, Hon. Harold If. Velde (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Harold H. Velde (chairman), Donald L. Jackson Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scheror, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, and James B. Frazier, Jr. (appearance noted in record.) I Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Louis J. Russ l chief investigator; -Thomas W.- Beale, Sr., chief. clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; and William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. Vmum. The committee will come to order. Let the record show that a full quorum of the committee is present. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. Walter. - Mr. WAIrvm. Mr. Chairman, on yesterday there appeared in a local newspaper an editorial entitled, "Walter Lacks Proof for Slur on the Union." The fact of the matter is what I said was not intended to be a slur on the union and it was not a slur on the union. As a matter of fact, if any implication is to be drawn from what I said, it is to the effect that the union was in no wise connected with this act of sabotage. This is an example of the ends that certain segments of the press go to in an attempt to discredit the work of this committee.
Mr. CLAwY. I understood your efforts to imply, at least, that the sabotage might conceivably be charged to some Commie influence.
Mr.WrR. Of course. The man who had testified, in connection with whose testimony this statement was made, was not a trade unionist.
Mr. CLAnDY. He was talking about the spike-throwing incident, as I recall it.
Mr. WAurzr. That is correct. It seems to me that every trade union should resent. this attempt to speak of communism and unionism as being synonymous.
Mr. CLADY. You recall the last witness last night immediately started off on that attack. Mr. WATr. Of course.
Mr. Viws. Do you have a witness?
Mr. TAV"mm;, Yes. I would like to call Mrs. Edith Macia.
Mr. Vrmwa. In the testimony you are about to give before this comtell the truth; willG6d? youybtl do you solemnly swearhelp wttq, "' truth, I '+, the whole annothhgbutdhefruth'so'
Mrs. MACIA. Ido.-. E111-.DITH MACIA TESTIMONY 01. n e, pleaAW? i
Mr. TAvam .
Mrs MAcZA. mEdith Maca.
Mr. TAvENxm. How do y9u spelt your name? " 9acia..
Mrs, MAc04,,I
Mr. T VrNwiz1. Where were you born, Mrs. Macia?
Mrs. MAoxA. I was born in Leadvilleo, Colo., September 17, 1884.
Mr. TAvrxr. I was going to ask you Whether or-not you were an actress. If youwere I would not have asked you your age. Will you state, please, for the committee, what your educational, formal educationaf-background has been I . Mr, Doma. Counsel, excuse me for interrupting, I notice the witness does not have counsel.
Mr.-TAv NNrZ. Yes. I would lik to ask about that. "
Mrs. MKioI. No, I do not have. .'Mr. TAvwmm. You are aware of the practice of the committee, counsel with them. permitting areyouno,
Mrs, MA04.in ?Yees, ram....all witnesses to have
Mr. TAVVNNER. And 'consult counsel if deemed advisable or the witness desires to do so?
Mrs. MAoCT. Yes.
Mr. TAvWNxE. Will you state for the committee, please, what your educational background has been? 
Mrs. MACrA. J-completed the public schools of Tombstone, Aria., and 1year of college at the University of Arizona.
Mr. TA mmm -Where do you now resideI
Mrs. MACIA. In Orange County [Calif.J. m. You spoke of having completed high school at
Mr. T&vw Tombstone, Ariz.
Mrs. MAo. Well, in those days we didn't have high school. We finished high school in-the grammar-school grade& We didn't have whigh school.
Mr. TAv mNR. How long did you live at Tombstone, Ariz.I
Mrs. MACU. Over 50 years. 
Mr. TAVENNRm. And did you come to Los Angeles from Tomb. stone? 
Mrs. MACIA. I did.
Mr TAv mNm. Whileyou were living in Tombstole Ariz., did you hold a position of any kind with the United States iovernment?Mrs. MIo&., I was postmaster of Tombstone from 198 to 193. ,.,Mr. TAvzUmm When did you come toLos Angeles?: I was 1935 in September. M ,Acuntil'l ',+,. -', .9.8 . ++a+ +'1686.. I am. wrong.there. in Mr Tombstone
Mr. TAVmNm After coming to Los Angeles did you hAveocbsion' to becq affiliated in any way with the Communist Party? o0MMU ,ACTIem qsTH AXs, AVo E] sAAM, Yes I did.
Mr. TAVzxzNr. Hlow did that happen?
Mrs. MAcA. Well, in August 194 an agent of the Federal Bureau -Mis.MACI, of investigation came to my home and asked me if I would be willing to join the Communist Party. I had expressed myself quite freely as being anti-Communist, but I didn't quite feature ever becomin a. member of the Communist Party. I hesitated, and then, when-ho informed me that there was one group in my area that they, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, had never been able to get a line on, as it were, I changed my mind and told him I would. This was on Tuesday. I told him I would let him know for sure on Thursday. I asked him for information and adviceMr. TAvzstN . Now, let me suggest that you not make any statement of the circumstances or the method under which you became a member of the Communist Party. I merely want to ask you whether, after being requested to take that action, whether you did.
Mrs. MACIA. Yes Idid.
Mr. TAveN2NEip. When did you become a member of the party, as nearly as you can tellI
Mrs. MAC Ao. In
Mr. unviFP. A- li w long did you rrn in a member of the Communist Part the instance of a Government-agency I
Mrs. MAU.U until January 1,1949.
Mr. TAvEN R. And what was yurreason at that ti ne for ceasing to be a mem r of theC..ni.t artyf MJ a. We w vi g Us Ange .
Mr. TAI llin th curiofte perjl of time hen you werema mbero bfeaomm nthdit- didy Hiihakerepo to the Govern-ti ent agency itIhT d otheinformat n you obtain
Mrs. I did.
Mr. MN. wmA. T ee y tdidy n~ake shreport'
Mrs. MACn. fter e iti em gs weret e a month, very 2 eeks, a a ting.
Mr.R. oy e o uisTJartyca owing your a mission as m berist Paity,
MrM I via. Yn do have.
Mr. TA N'. ill youexhi it it, p1 1e ame does that Comm nist Party c~rd'appear I
Mr. TAYWx Wha was youname?
Mrs MwArA. a Nichol, E-d- -a 4. -o-l.
Mr. TAVENNER. you assigned that n r did you select it of your own accord?1 
Mrs. MACTA. I selected it 
Mr. TAvrmwza. Mr. Chairman, I would like to offer the Communist Party card of the witnes i evidence and ask that it be marked Macia Exhibit.No.1, and I would like to substittite for it a photostatic copy 90 the orinal ay returned to the witness.
Mr-. VEWE. It ii so ordered And the evidence will be received. (The document referred to was received in, evidence and ,arked marke "MacirExhibit $ V")
Mr. TAvx Nri. Will yoi explain the CpmquIis P"trty ard to th committee, please, as to the date it was issued and as to ihe meaning 560 COMMUNIST', ACTIVITIES IN TI1Z 1081 ANGELESJ LARNA' of the stamps that appear on the loft-hand side of the card? I believe one of the committee members has it.
Mrs. MACI^. Well how shall I start,I
Mr. TAVENNz. Well first tell us for what year that card was issued.
Mrs. MAOIA. From November 5, 1047, to January 1, 19--well, for all the year 1948, until January 1,1949. 
Mr. TAVENNSER. I notice on 1 page there are a number of stamps, 0 stamp., showing 10 cents each, at the bottom of each stamp.
Mrs. MACIA. rhat represents dues. The dues were paid, and the reason that 12 of them are not in was because they didn't have stamps at the time, the Communist Party didn't have stamps at that time, and instead they marked it paid. 
Mr. TAvxNNsX. Is that card signed by the State chairman of the Communist Party.
Mrs. MAMA^. It is signed b)y W.-Schteidermann.
Mr. TAV:NNE.R. If you will hand it to the committee so they may examine it, please. 
Mr. Doyix. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VEtnE. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. Dovr.x. Undoubtedly our distinguished counsel is-undotbtedly you are going to read into the record, for the benefit of the public, the rights and duties of party members; are you, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVI.NNEI1. Yes, sir. That appears on the back of the card. It reads as follows: Rights and duties of party members: To at all times loyally defend the Interests of the working class against the forces of fascism and reaction; to fight all kinds or forms of national oppression, discrimination and segregation; to fight ideological Influences that oppress racial minorities; to fight for the full social, political and economic equality of the Negro people; to fight for Negro and white unity; to attend club meetings, read the party press and literature, pay dues regularly and be active on behalf of the program and the policies of the party; to participate In the working out of policies and tasks of the club, and to regularly examine the execution of such policies; to vote for officers, committees, and delegations and be elected to any office or committees In accordance with provisions of the constitution; to appeal any .decision with which there ts disagreement to the next higher body, carrying out the decision while the appeal is pending; to strive to master the program and policies of the party, the principles of Marxism and Leninism. Were cards of a similar nature issued to all the Communist Party members at the time that you were issued this card, that is, to members of your group ?
Mrs. MACIA. Yes; they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have here 4 receipts or papers indicating that they tire receipts. I would like to hand them to you and ask you to identify them andtell the committee what they are.
Mrs. MACIA. I have 4 and the first one is dated April 2, 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. In whose name is it made out?
Mrs. MACA. To Edda N.-just "N." My name is not written in.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is it a receipt for dues for that period?
Mrs. MACI. Yes- it is.
Mr. TAvEN m. Does the name of the organization appear there as W. A.?
Mrs. MAOM. Yes; it does.
Mr. TA EN;ER. What do the initials W. A. stand forI
Mrs, M4ou. West Adam "I COMMUNIST ACTIVITIRH IN ''IIM' LO 
Mr. TAV.NNIR, ANOIRLES AREA 561 West Adams? 
Mrs. MACIA. Yes.
Mr. 'lAYI'iN, r.Is.Adlam the name of a street? 
Mrs. MAcIA. 'l'he,ine of a street.; Adams Boulevard, 
Mr. TAVIHNNrIt. Does that indicate the name of the club or unit or cell of the Communist Party to be the Weqt Adams cell of the Commnunlist Party?
Mrs. MACIA. West Adams Club, as we called it.
Mr. ''AVNNKrI. There is a place on the receipt for the name of the trisiarer. It says "Treasurer's signature," and there appear two initials, I I. W. Ieo youIkow hI0o5.3 ilit,ials thoe are?
Mrs. MACIA. No; I don't recall.
Mr. '.'vNNRI.• You do not recall? Mi's. MACIA. No. 
Mr.T'IWIN NErI. On the back of the receipt are several mneinoranda. Mi's. MAUIA. Ihey were just subjects that were discussed at that meeting or nmeetings following. I pem'laips had this with in amid wrote these note,+. I have-no idea of when they were taken up.
Mr. 'I'AVNNErt. Excuse me. I desire to offer the receipt in evidence and ask that it be marked "Macia FExhibit No. 2," and, as in the other case I would like to substitute a photostatic copy for the original.
Mr. Vraum;. It is so ordered, without objection. This evidence will be received. (Tie document referred to was received in evidence and marked "Macia Exhibit No. 2.")
Mr. IrAVFNNEi. Does the memorandum on the back of that receipt refresh your recollection as to what business was transacted or d[scussed at the meeting which was held about April 7, 1940, or shortly thereafter?
Mrs. MACIA. I wouhl say yes; to the best of my knowledge, it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe it; tell us what those matters related to?
Mrs. MACIA. Well, one of the questions that I have written in was evidently asked by some member of the group, "Is not Soviet Russia practically imperialism?"
Mr. TAVENNER. Nbw, just a moment. Do you recall now what the trend of the discussion was on that subject ?
Mrs. MACIA. No; I do not. It was just a question that arose and we just discussed it at length, but my reason for being at these meetings kept me busy. I really didn't get all that transpired in tie discussion.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand that your principal purpose was to ascertain who were members of this particular group?
Mrs. MACIA. That is correct; yes, sir. I was told to go and find out who they were and what they were doing, and as a result, the names were difficult to obtain, and, as I say, I was too busy getting the names to do much about-to take too much part in the discussion.
Mr. TAvENNF.R. If you will proceed, what other notations do you find on the back of the receipt which may indicate the subject under -discussion I
Mrs. MACIA. One is "Demands on Iran what right had the Russian representative to walk out in the United Iations P The next one is, "What will happen if the U. S. S. R.representative -does not return tomorrow?" 8174-18-pt. 2-9 562 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Those were questions that were asked and answered at this Communist Party meeting? 
Mrs. MACIA. Yes. And the last one is, "Why we were against loan to England,"
Mr.-Mouwmn. The "well referring to whom? 
Mrs. MAoIA. To Soviet Russia and-the Communist Party. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How many other receipts do you have? 
Mrs, MACIA. I have three more.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give their dates, please?
Mrs. MACIA. February 4, 1947, and I was paying 35 cents dues at that time. 
Mr. TAVFNNER. Whose initials are signed as treasurer at that time? 
Mrs. MACIA. R. IX. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whose name R. K. stood for?
Mrs. MACTA. Yes; I do. It was the wife of the treasurer of our group. Rose Kline was the name.
Mr. TAvNNFR. Rose Kline. Would you spell Kline? 
Mrs. MACIA. K--i-n-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the name of the organization referred to in the left-hand margin?
Mrs. MACIA. The West AdamsMr. TAVENNER. The same?
Mrs. MACIA. W. A., just the same.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the receipt in evidence and ask it be marked as "Macia Exhibit No. 3."
Mr. VELDE. It is so ordered and the exhibit will be admitted. (The document referred to was received in evidence and marked "Macia Exhibit No. 3.")
Mr. TAVENNER. A photostatic copy will be furnished. The next?
Mrs. MACIA. The next is issued in the name of Edda N., just the same, for 35 cents. It is signed "L. S."
Mr. TAVENER. Do you know whose initials they were?
Mrs. MACIA. No; I don't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the name of the organization, or was the name of the organization at that time o
Mrs. MACIA. West Adams, just the same.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. And the next?
Mrs. MACIA. The next is April 12, 1948. I paid $1.10 dues which carried me through to the 1st of January 1949. On the left-hand side of this there is "63-2."
Mr. TAVENNER. What does that indicate?
Mrs. MAc A. That it was the 63d assembly district and there were two parties. That is, there were two groups in that party.
Mr. ToaVNNR. Two groups?
MrM MACIA. Yes.
Mr. TAvrN'NNR. Two groups that consolidated, does it mean that?
Mrs. MAC A. It might mean that or it might be there were two upgradings in the.West Adams. I couldn't tell what it was. It is signed "H. S."' 
Mr. TAVENN.. Does the name of the person represented by those iniidals apmar oJA the.back of that receipt I
Mrs M cu. Yes, it does. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THi LOS ANGELES AREA 563 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the name?
Mrs. MACIA. Helen Samuels, 2012 West 87th Place.
Mr. TAVFYNNEUt. Did you write that on the back of the receipt?
Mrs. MACIA No I did not.
Mr. TAVLNNEm. Was it written on the back of the receipt at the time you received it? 
Mrs. MACIA. It must have been on the receipt at the time I received it, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What position did she hold at that time in your groupI 
Mrs. MACIA. She was just a member of the group or a visitor, I can't say which. I knew her as a member.
Mr. TAVENNEn. But the initials "I. S." appear above at the space marked "Treasurer's signature"?
Mrs. MACIA. That is true.
Mr. TAVENF.NR. I desire to offer that receipt in evidence and ask it e marked as "Macia Exhibit No. 4." Without objection, it will be admitted in evidence.
Mr. V mEW. (The document referred to was received in evidence and marked "Macia Exhibit No. 4.")
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, just what type of an organization of the Communist Party this was, which you had joined?
Mrs. MACIA. Well, it would be rather difficult for me to say. It was a group that was constantly receiving recruits, now recruits. They came, ini for t few meetings and then went into other groups of the Communist Party. (Representative Donald L. Jackson reentered the hearing room at this point, 9:32 a. m.)
Mrs. MACIA. Whether it was a recruiting organization or not, I ant not sure. The meeting place was the same for about two years and a half.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where was the meeting place?
Mrs. MACIA. It was on West Adams, but I don't have the address; I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNFiR. Then, if I understand you correctly, members of this group were assigned out to other groups of the Communist Party?
Mrs. MACIA. Must have been, because they disappeared from our meeting place and from our group, and evidently went into some other group.
Mr. TAvENNER. Was it what is known as a community or neighborhoot group?
Mrs. MACIA. I would say so, yes. The people who came regularly seemed to live in that area.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the chairman of that group when you entered it? 
Mrs. MAMA. Well, since I am not sure of the date, which I am not, I would rather not answer that question if it is permissible.
Mr. TAvFIIrNE. Yes, if you are in doubtMrs. MACIA. I am in doubt, ye.
Mr. TA wNER. Who was chairman at that time, I would rather you not answer it.
Mrs. MAIA. Well, I will answer that I will give the name later. 564 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNEn, Did you make a record of the names of the members of this group at the time that you were a member of the party I
Mrs. MACIA Yes I did.
Mr. TAVEN N , dust tell the committee how you made that record.
Mrs. MACIA. Well, I made it by sitting as close as I could to the treasurer of the group and watching the cards signed and the receipts issued, and in that way I obtained quite a number of names, and otherwise I Iust watched and listened until I could get the name.
Mr. MOULDER. May I at this point ask a question, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder. 
Mr. MOULDER. Would those names be fictitious, like your own name, or would they be true names?
Mrs. MACIA. A great many of them, I think, were true names.
Mr. MOULDER. You have no way of being sure whether they were or not?
Mrs. MACI. No I haven't.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Vow long a period of time did it take you to obtain a list of the group by the method you have described?
Mrs. MACIA. Many, many months. But it was very hard because they spoke-they called one another by their first names usually.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it your purpose to obtain and list the true names of these individuals or the names, the party names, of the individuals?
Mrs. MACIA. The names that the receipts were issued to, and that perhaps was the party name or their real names, whichever they were using at the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you preserve the result of your work?
Mrs. MACIA. Well, r have some of it. I don't have it all, but I have some of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have it with you?
Mrs. MACIA. Yes, I do have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you exhibit, please, to the committee the list of names that you prepared at the time you were a member of the Communist Party?
Mrs. MACIA. You want me to give these originals, do you?
Mr. TAvEN-zR. Give the original list as you first prepared it. Those names appear in your own handwritingI
Mrs. MACIA. Yes they do. They were written very hurriedly.
Mr. TAYENNER. I desire to offer the list in evidence and ask that it lri marked "Macia Exhibit No. 5."
Mr. V wn. Without objection, it will be received. (The document referred to was received in evidence and marked "Macia Exhibit No. 5.")
Mr. DOYLE. Counsel, while the committee members are viewing that interesting list, and, apparently, you are waiting for them so to doMr. TAVENmm. Yes. 
Mr. DoyLv (continuing). I wonder if it would be appropriate to ask the witness to.fill in this minute or two, and ask if she has counted the number of names on that original list which she made. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Have you counted the names?
Mrs. MACu. Yes, I have; 148.
Mr. MOULDER. Ma I inquire?
Mr. Vmrw. Mr. Moulder. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA 565 
Mr. MomEa. Now, as I understand you, those names were taken as the treasurer handed the receipts for the dues.
Mrs. MACIA. Most of them were.
Mr. MoULDER. And you don't know whether or not they were the real names of those persons'?
Mrs. MACIA No I do not.
Mr. MOULD . You don't know whether they were the fictitious names and you have no other way of further indentifying the names of the people on there?
Mrs.MACIA. No, I haven't.
Mr. MOULDER. The point I am trying to get at is, it would be entirely possible then for some person's name to be used who wasn't a member of the Communist Party?
Mrs. MACIA. I don't think so.
Mr. DOYLE. What is your answer? I didn't hear that.
Mrs. MACIA. I don't think so.
Mr. MoULDER. I mean by that, say, if some person, who was an active Communist there, might select the name of some prominent citizen for the purpose of not betraying their own name.
Mrs. MACIA. That is right.
Mr. DoYLE. May I ask the witness if she ever heard of that being done in this group, 135 people?
Mrs. MACIA. No.
Mr. DoLE. Did you recognize any prominent citizens there?
Mrs. MACIA No I didn't.
Mr. JACKSO. lqr. Chairman.
Mr. VELD Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. On one of these pages, with reference to one of the names, I see what I interpret to be 'Transfer La Brea and Wilshire."
Mrs. MACIA. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Was that a transfer to or from a branch at La Brea and Wilshire? What is the significance of that?
Mrs. MAoIA. What is the exact wording there?
Mr. JACKSON. It says "T-r-a-n. La Brea and Wilshire."
Mrs. MACIA. He was transferred to La Brea and Wilshire, because I show in all my lists the word "From" wherever I have it.
Mr. JACKSON. There was a branch at La Brea and Wilshire?
Mrs. MAoA. There must have been.
Mr. CLARDY. During this interlude, Mr. Chairman, something else suggests itself to me. I have the Communist Party card in my-hand and I am not sure we have put in the record here the rather interesting bit of information on the inside, under the heading, "Dues Rates." I would like to read that in. It is very brief.
Mr. VELDtE. Proceed, Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLAn-. Under that capitalized lettering it says, Income over $60 per week, $2 per month. Income $25 to $60 per week, $1. Income under $25 per week, 85 cents. Unemployed, 10 cents. Then beneath it-I don't know where the unemployed would get the dime. Beneath that it says, Read the Daily Worker and the Worker. Read our Monthly Magazine Political Affairs. On the outside I notice they have done a very artistic job on the front page. They have in faint blue letters, as the background of 0566 COMMUNIST ATIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA everything, the words "Communist Party of America" repeated over and over again. I haven'tbeen on this committee long enough-do you know whether this Is an exact duplicate of all the other cards we have received in evidence in prior hearings?
Mr. VJi. different. No. As a matter of fact, the cards wore somewhat 
Mr. TAVENNz. different. No, I think it Is not. I think the form is somewhat 
Mr. CLARDY. It is quite an artistic job. 
Mr. VEPLw. In fact, I think up until about the year 1045 '44 or 45, the Communist Party card carried the hammer and sicde and seal, if there is any doubt in anybody's mind that the Communist Party is not connected with Russia in any way.
Mr. Mouwmm. In connection with the questions I asked Tou a mo. ment ago regarding the nanes you took at the meetings, Mr. Wheeler, our Investigator, has informed me he has made a thorough investigation of the names you obtained at those meetings, and 00 percent or more of them were members of the Communist Party and active in Communist affairs.
Mr. MACIA. I am glad to know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think the investigator meant that 90 percent had been identified.
Mr. JUc^Ksow. Previously identified I
Mr. TAvNNRn. That is what I understand. Not identified by testimony, but identified by the investigator's work.
Mr. CLARDY. For fear that what I said about the dues might give the wrong impression, we have voluminous testimony to show that in the arts, sciences and professions they have a percentage scale instead of the flat dollar scale that I read in. Sometimes it runs up to 10 percent or more, and they are expected to contribute that on a monthly basis also is that not right?
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe the largest percentages I have heard referred to were 5 percent of the professors' salaries at Harvard University, and 4 percent in Hollywood.
Mr. CLARDY. I recall one witness said it might run that high, but I can't remember his name.
Mr. TAvWNNR. Now, will Tyou read the list of names of those that you identified during the period of time that you were a member of the Communist Party from this first list that you prepared, and where you are able to do it, give the committee the benefit of your recollection as to the part that the individual played in any of the meetings, and any other identifying information that you can give concerning the person.
Mrs. MACmA. Well, I can't give too much, but I shall be glad to do that, Mr. Tavenner. I have no idea of the dates on these.
Mr. TAVEzNNER. I will ask you to give the names slowly and to spell them.
Mrs. MAcIa. This is a revised list that I made, some from memory and some from this list. Is it permissible to give those? They are all people that I can identify.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to give-Mrs. MACU. The list as I had it here? COMMUNIST ACflIVITIRS IN TIIO ,0 ANUELIS AIIZA 567 
Mr. TAVENNV.I1. I think that you should give the list as you prepared it originally and then if there are others that you can identify, to nam t110 oso also.
Mr. Doytta:. May I just ask this question ? It would 'be interestinA to know if the. )uIes wer IIIIle y yout tile tiIe of your ittend. ance at the meetings.
Mrs. MACIA. Well, I made then up after I rettirned hone.
Mr. ])oyta. But within an hour or two after the meetings?
Mrs. MAVIA. Ye1. I wouhl make them out on one slip of paper and then the next on another slip of paper and then put them all together at home.
Mr. )ovtr. In other words, you made a niemorandum in the mcwtin ron i slip of paper. Vrs. MACIA. Yes.
Mr. I)omE~. And when you got home from the meeting you im. mediately transferred what you had on the memorandum which you had mnde in the Communist lParty meeting to this list to which you are now referring.
Mrs. MACIA.'ha t is right.
Mr. Doyr,. Thank you.
Mrs. MACIA. Shall I give the husband's wife's name at the same time, because this is a very long listV
Mr. TAV1NNxr. Just as you like, just so that you cover the list. Possibly it would be bettor to give it in the order in which they appear onthelist.
Mrs. MACIA. Serill Gerber.
Mr. TAvENNER. Will you spell it, please?
Mrs. MACIA. I spelled the first name S-e-r-i-l-l, but it may be C-y-r-i-l, I don't know, and the last name O-e-r-b-e.r.
Mr. TAVENNEIR. What part did he play, if any, in the Communist Party group that you were a mneij)er of?
Mrs. MACIA. Well, at one time he was the chairman of the group.
Mr. TAENNnit. Now, do you know that person's occupation?
Mrs. MACIA. No, not actually I do not. I have been told he is a teacher in the Los Angeles schoo s,
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell us how long he was chairman of your group, approximately ?
Mrs. MACIA. Well, le wasn't chairman too long, because he left the group to go to Detroit and remained there evidently for some time. He later returned, and I saw him once afterward. tie did not come back to our group.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you say him, what were the circumstances under which you saw him on his return from Detroit?
Mrs. MACIA. Well, there were to be several people come from other groups to visit our group that meeting night, and he was there to place the chairs for seating the additiontil group, but he did not appear at the meetin Lillian Gerber, his wife. Helen and Bob Pate, P-a-t-e. Fred Putman, P-u-t-m-a-n. Joe and Rose Kline, K-I-i-n-e.
Mr. TAvENNER. Now, what was the position of Joe Kline?
Mrs, MACIA. He was the treasurer or the financial secretary. 508 O) IN11lW A(IV1l8t II. 1' (ltep&'entatIJtiiv thim poilt., 9):4lb i, IN 01461 1,018 AN0:1dM AIMA ioe 4.11 I. it lit ei'&d tM eilt111ig tiltan lit) fit hi'.TIAVKNNI'11. illI yoll jIlot-emi1 MiPH. AAIA. Sara'l Kilusitz, 1citt-snttl4f-i. She wits Ow' rvelrihig mertetai'y (if tile glilli). MIN. hfiity, Nt f-fty. She' wls it vory solely lady, [II0. told 1110 that shei tVO 1)1n of fdie 01'haitei' lteinhl-4' of 4lik' 1,1)8 Attgeh'm gt4ilp. E4'th Ii ,olittstott, 41.fht-t.(t, WlIIO WINS It Wtiit1iT'SHO 01O n~ Itet ('ifet elose by Choi Itteet lug prelo. IMt'ikee( Prtft, f l'ri~ it, wits th pli' l'idltlf or flit' grotijp Mt otlt time. And Idit Pratt, his wire. A~nn Whle~t. Slit' hod elimrgi' of what., they called edic'if titItIsII. AtxI v Iitad ,Joe' Hltdu, R---. 11 1181s), Wis lmi irnat-IIII ioveral Iirr'ty and'itillio Noruit, N or:~~. I don't. lilt)%w a iyt ling "b1ottt Where t hey welt' ttt' whit they were doing. Jellt antd Siiittli i'otiig. floti Yoting wits it gi'iidttait iof 11111 Uliivt'rsit3' of' sotli htti ('iifornilt,Ittid I don't. kno1w whatl. his h11itislitissWl.4 lint he' atflt't'ward ('htan1gi h61s tt1ntm Itii( gave fbh ill itd, le i guitdlimted under, whuich was.- ('htarles (1ho11t 0111' All'. T1AVRNNN'1(, ('11110 1VO 115IHItly fil-th iiiiliti 3ihag In fr'tin. Nit's. NiACIA. No; I cannot. TIhil Willi ( 1l1111.1's aild Shir-ley 1pllis, lttt-slhitd autu Wi fe. Hei& gave his 11111it1ptfirst, ItS llis, Ittitl 14 tti itbotit, til'se -.1in1 1111 that Yotttg eltatuged hlim Itaitti't41)(1iadsf onel, he gaivo the 11111110ttO40. So) his nilltil wVits ChIar'les Stolle. Aitr. i'AV MNF.It. 011('ti lOt give IH atlly firt hit,' ide'it-i fyin lttfo'ntiation regriding hint as. (t h4Iis actiVities. N ell or l11teV Int 111 ( 1 11111 tilist M'.MAMA. W0'lI, 110~ WAS Very~ Retive, lio wot t'videw'itft writer for' Chot P'eople's World, mid hke witt~vry acet ive mitu hiad reviohut imilry idells. Aitr. IDovu.x W~hat wits t e101110 of that. ani f
Mrs. NIAVIA. H ll iSt. gaIVe t10 1111111 Of 1F1*1 lliad thenu 0clntged it to huis owII t1111110 hi4 righ t111t110, whiltI ts SWI He1' hi ht httlottgoil to thle Abrauhamt lihnl Thigitdt a111( folight Ilt Spin.l lHe lost a finlt there, I 11ndersAtanld. Air, 'IAVVNNEJl. D)id h10 OV01' iddress8 your gr'Oll3)?
Mrs. NiACIA. Oh,$tutanly ti1108. 01n of t10 thinlgS lthit1 Hi(1 that is very onstandlng Ill my memory, ho told tint womnit of (lho party, "Rfiso'up ant iInil trate Into tile ellti'i'htles, into tito0 synalgogutes, into thoe homes of till of thle people. When yolt .ee 2 or' 3 ;6ttueli gilt itermd togethler In yotir neighborhood, maybe driniIng tell or playing cards join themt and just. drop your.little word of Wisdom 1111(1 Ill ile it will take effect." Now, those are my words. 'Thoso are not exactly his, because I don't remember themt eatly, bitt that Is In effect what. hto said. lIfelr 4 Hiudsonl. Air. 'I AVENNER. Spell the name, ploaso,
Mrs. MACIA. Il-p-d-s-o-n. Sam find Mary lIubin, Il-u-b-i-n. Mir. TAVENNE.R. Lot mne remind yon again that wherever you canl, to give any further identifying Information. ('(MMNIO HI ACTlVIIC;M IN TIlM' LOA ANOlI-At*4 A1ll'0A NlO 4%l1 lit. Thely hait 4datiglifler, I6141t1(400 Who d111, 8114111y a liflE I oil. gvotli .HID l111i' 1111114 lili'l, IIIII'. Ni11p1, 'Il'.v,: N 111) i o ul I lie 1114. fll.u Nit'sH MIAOI. S-11-I-I-. TI114 4tXI. nuIIt'II I Jan vt' he're'I i omot MlIea'y, hill, I I I Ei li j1( I'. (t' 1 l lit . I folaIad old, ItfIitiw a 1.4 lael.I I Iae, w'its 811111'1" S-I1-11.-4. 44)letd I lit 141 ofick' lkl 1. It, 4 Ilt. (hIg I a NIIIII , Of (il VeH111 it 1viiv 116%It11tli t iN S . ol-i'III IlIi 's jl(e Allii'. AENIiIt'' 1111-it) i lg4(IAVIAt .Ic i iit ' I i 1*11ii l izi (I l 14 li l t l l# h ilr1 411 I ltiie ' t'fll* b il, oI het l)bll 14 aly k t u,11-r NIJI' 11011. 1li, 11411.tu l't it 1101,4 41t A1 i )(11 f' Ilit 'I1'uiH ii loII (i,(t 4110 ( IIhi, i-m tm b o. -lmiN t ii Is i/Et-1',so h it's. Nhl-illA I'-o--1--81 l-i Nllit'. 'IANEl. ) yu 114-mioA1po1'4 ii ]ue wits it dol'tl( if, some-lIy~i Nlits.flNtluiA. Nil, 11 d it ill)1 1111111 Ii'(J0f, biIV-Il-. li '1ush ot t Duit.hu Iull 141l11z 't f1-oiiuZ ISii i' u %Vokin Ihi'111 li 444 v it s.Hoflerre 
Mr.u'i'AVsNhop Wl. ~ HMi'. MA('wA. (I-i----. i 3CI tl~~tO Mi'. *JoKNONt. H~o 3i luivoy outtiy 11ur11er Iletllctono ta,
Mr'. Donn. Ot1t d $,Jil ('~Illit o oio..Mra a h flhttlie Of (.11(1 Ito. 1v llyTVNolNulE i DOYUII -ita. hokowwanmlyeif ebout ted, Aleds. ASpim. k, 146r-otS-piv-a-Wl, Wol eWliteoe oi Peval OwO-s-te-P Awar ioceo h te ot i lit tgroupebut I theynam after. a tIorgtnm llalpoaiiy 570 COMMNST ACTIT6ES IN THE LOS ANGSXs AREA 
Mr. Vzwz. May I ask the witness about how many names you have left toreadt Doyouhave20or80
Mrs. MACIA. At least that, 
Mr. VxmW. I believe at this point we will declare a recess for 10 minutes. (Whereupon, a recess was taken from 10: 0 a. in. until 10:18 aVmI)
Mr. Vzzwn. The committee will be in order.
Mr. TAvwE;ER. Mrs. Macia, the last name you gave us was that of Morris Oster or Alzar. Would you pick upagain at that point I
Mrs. MACIA. The next name is Rosalind Freud, F-r-e-uMr. TAVBNNM. All right. 
Mr. TAVENNZ. What was the first nameI 
Mrs. MACA. John Dohierty, D-o-h-e-r-t-y. Joe Brodsky, B-r-o-d.s-k-y.
Mr. TAVzWNER. May I ask you again if you can recall any addi. tional identifying information, to make that known to the committee f Mrs. MACA. I shall be glad to. Joe Brodski was employed at Sears roebuck On Pico Avenue, but I don't really know in what capacity. Harry and Ned Schwartz S-c-h-w-a-r-t-z. B. Hirsch, H-iir-s-c-h. He was transferred to our group from Chicago. Harry Gilder, G-i-l.d-e-r.
Mrs. MACqu. Harry Gilder, G-i-l-d-e-r. He was transferred from the Boyle Heights group. F-r-e-u-n-d. Burton Freund, Harry Jidis, .- u-d-i-s, and Minnie Judis, his wife. John Dicho b-i-c-ho. Steve and Tillie Oleksink. O-l-e-k-s-i-n-k. Edith and Allan Bomser, B-o-m-s-e-r. Sara Rudimon, R-u-d-i-m-o-n. TIiat might be "a." Excuse me. I don't understandyou.
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mrs. MAC. That may be "a" instead of "." It may be R-u-d-am-o-n; Anne and Bert Witkowski, W-i-t-k-o-w-s-k-i. Nat Bookchin B-o-o-k-c-h-t-n. D-i-m-s-d-a-l-e. Dlmsdale, Dar-P-y-f-v-& Dreyfus, IHarold lchiml. rank M-i-O-i F-rank Nora' Garber 6 -a- 'b-e-r. Sam Horn, fi-o-r.n. That is all on this list.
Mr. Vzw. The Clair would like to state at this.point that if there are any persons in this area who have identical or similar names to any of the people mentioned by the witness, they are at liberty and web. come to come to.the committee and'have any confusion which may be by evidenced iinremoved thr own min& or the minds of the pubc this committee.
Mr. Dom.. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Yxwu. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DotuL Apropos of your statement, wouldn't you also say at this time that if any of those persons who have been named want to come to this cmnnttee and deny that they were members of that group, now is the opportunity for them to do it. COMMMST ACTVITS IN TIM LOS ANGELES AREA 571 
Mr. Vizwi. I concur with the gentleman.
Mr. Dom. That is a standing invitation that this committee makes.
Mr. CLARDY. Or if they want to repent of their sins and come forth and admit it, I suggest that we invite them.
Mr. Doy . We , if they come forward and deny the testimony of this distinguished witness, if they want to, or affirm it, I Invite everyone to help their Government instead of conspiring against it.
Mr. Vxz. The Chair, of course, concurs with that. Proceed.
Mr.'TAvEMNER. I might add, Mr. Chairman, as a practical method of getting at that, if any person would write the committee, we would see that an investigator for the committee calls upon him first, in order to have some of these matters straightened out.
Mr. Doms. I realize that it would have to be done in an orderly manner, but it still stands as a standing invitation.
Mr. TAVENN. Yes, sir. Mrs. Macia, were you ever observed making any of the notes which you used to compile that list?
Mrs. MAoC. Yes I was.
Mr. TAVESN1E. What occurre&-w|in-you. were observed making the notes I -,
Mrs. MACU. I was ing beside Sara Kusnitz an she informed "O10h tol yumusn't ake any notes." hr, I a treember unes'mare some notes. And she said," don't ever ta I assured le would not,
Mr. Sojiin . Was 8i-wha
Mrs MAC. Kusnits, K-u-s-n
Mr. Is she the-onee in Russia fJ
Mrs. MA A. Yes.\/ M r. Do .Wha! 
Mrs. MA L.Yes. Oyqura n " ) was t4e last fame I -t--- K0Ad\ ' \ brother in' the Poli uro rt) (Y 
Mr. Mo IIh a rei Z on theofVieIe,o pper, When co ie doenotfft6' wany names, with hat kind a cone.Ti,
Mrs. MA i..She wa -veycourt~o ,/ (Represent ive DonaldL. Jack left th heari i'room this " 1 . n) .X a 2 n4 10: 0or. of rs me of d .s Ip TAvist Thi the West Adams ib of the Cib mis. artyy
Mrs. MACI. Ye is.
Mr. TA0 .d ou have occasion to m another list?
Mrs. Macr. Yes, I i e were transferred" another meeting place. 
Mr. TAvENN R. Well, first of all, let me ask you over what period of time Was this first list compiled.
Mrs. MACIA. Around 2 years and a half, I would say.
Mr. TAvENNE. Then you say you were transferred?
Mrs. MzaCA. Yes. 
Mr. TAvWNm. Transferred where? 
Mrs. MACIA. .I was--we were transferred to-I can give you the exact address on that, I think. The West Adams Women's Club on La Brea. 5#72 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TI E LOS ANGELE S AiIA 
Mr. TAWINNFR. What do you mean you were transferred to the West Adams Women's Club, tiAe Women's Club of the Communist,Mrs. MAT, . The Women's Club building.
Mr. TAvPNNR. Women's Club building.
Mr-S. MA cIA. Yes. it was the sane group transferred to this buildin. 
Mr. 'AVENNEMl, The place of meeting was changed?
Mrs. MACIA. Yes; the place of meeting. Mi. TAVENNII. There was no difference in the organizational struc- ture of your groupMrs. MIACIA. No, it was lust the same. 
Mr. TAvWNNxii. Well, dl additional people join your group after your place of meeting was changed? Mls. MACIA. Wel, I rather think, yes. The Jefferson group, the Jefferson Club, disbanded or broke up for some reason ail many of them came to the meeting at the West Adams Women's Club. Mir. TAVENNER. Were you able to identify separately those who catte from the Jefferson Club?
Mrs. MACTA. Yes, I have.
Mr. TAv' xmNE.I (o int want to ask you at this moment who they were, because we are still considering the original membership of your West Adams Club. Now, you say after you moved to the new location for your meetings, why, you, as I understand, prepared a list again.
Mrs. MA,%C A. Yes, I did.
Mr. TAVE ER. What was the purpose of that?
Mrs. MAC A. Just to add it to my membership, that was the list of membership I was making.
Mr. TAVENNE a. You mean additional persons had joined from the time you prepared the first listI
Mrs. MACIA. Oh, yes, they were joining and being transferred at every meeting.
Mr. TAvNNF.R. Well, will you tell us the circumstances under which you prepared the second list Were they the same as the first list?
Mrs. MACIA. Yes, they were the same.
Mr. TAVENNER. I mean the same method of making the list?
Mrs, MACIA. Yes, just the same exactly. Mir. TAvmNER. Well, when you prepared the second list did you also list the same persons whose names you listed at the first meeting in your first list?
Mrs. MACIA, Yes, I did.
Mr. TAvENNEr. So that this list includes all the original members who were still members of your group at the time you prepared the second list and also the new members?
Mrs. MACTA, Yes, that is correct. (Representative Donald L. Jackson reentered the hearing room at this point, 10:29 a.i.)
Mr. TA imnNEI. Will you tell us when this second list was prepared and how long it took you to prepare it? Mirs. MAC A. I couldn't tell you exactly when it was prepared, but it was prepared during the time I attended the meetings at the West Adams Women's Club, and I would say it took at least a year.
Mr. TAVF.NE:. Do you have that list, original list which you prepared in your own handwritingt COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES -IN THI LOS ANIOPJES AREA 573 Ir-s. MAMA. Yes, I have.
Mr. 'T1AVENNER. I would like to offer that list inevidence and ask it be maarked Mavia Exhibit No. 0. Without objection, it will be received.
Mr. Vm.oDP. (Thie document referred to was mirke( MAcia Exhibit No. 0 for idett ilei ion, ai was received inevidence.) MIS. MACiA. Now, you ldon't. want mie to repeat the names I have 11l'elidy given, do you?
Mr. 'l',vE.N il. Well, I think it would be well to do that, because of heillilrelmilmd a inpllbel of this parit wouli show how t1l11l1y l. rou) over a olisiderahle period of time. 1 wonder if you ticular Would be iibl]e to tell Its, itsyeli intimo these pei'sonus itsecond time, that you have uhelady Imed theni. NWIs. MAkci,%. Well,'if I (-ill reinember, I will, yes. Tihe first, lianieltr. 'l'AVENNER. Maybe I call help you with that pa't of it. Proceed with yollr list, just. as yoll prepared it. Thalt is, of the persons who were the West Adams Women's ellthers of yollr (lub itthe title you net, it, Club building. By that I want to make it.clear, that is the Communist club meeting inaIbilding owned by the Women's Club. of those meetings, what year
Mr. VEwi;. MAy I ask wlhit the (late those meetings were held ?
Mrs. M11'AA. Well, it would be very hard for me to say because I don't klmow. Sonie of these receipts, however, came from those meetings. Some of the receipts I have already given, but I can't. give you the (bite because I (lot. reca ll. Mi. 1)ov,. In other words, counsel, you are making it clear, ifI un(lersta d it, that the Women's (lab merely rented the building to this grol)? Mis. MACIA. Yes, tlat is trite. ll'. TAVENNER. That is right. 
Mr. ])ovm,. That is right, Mrs. Macia?
Mrs. MAcTA. Yes, that is right. That is correct.
Mr. TA iNNFIn. Mr. chairman, it nay be that I can help you, from the testimony, as to the (late. The witness has testified that she joined this group of the Communist Party in1943. and my recollection is it was inAugust of 1943, and it took ,bout two and a half years to propare the list which she first testified to, and then later ittook a year to prepare the list which she now has.
Mr.DoYLE. I am assuming,Mr. Chairman, that the Women's Club did not know itwas a Communist cell that were using their building. I am assuming that.
Mr.JACKso. Is that the case?
Mr.DoYiE. I don't know. 
Mrs.MACrA. I hope itis.
Mr.DOYLE. I am assuming that the Women's Club did not knowingly rent this building to a Communist cell.
Mrs. MA0IA. I don't see how they could have helped knowing.
Mr. Doyto. I make that statement in view of the discussion. I think it ought to be made clear in this hearing what the fact was, so the Women's Club will not be criticized, if they are not subject to criticism.
Mrs. MACIA. That is true. 874 COOMMUNit' A(VYI'VPIItS IN TIM'I 104 AN01111h14 AIKA Mti. CLARDY. YO11t 011: 1-0thVi .k, I the 1111.dt of Illy cill 1111' 1t4111ill lollI yott don't. eIt how thu'y could hluvo hdld kiowbig. Vill y3ol 1,xi111' |t(h 1t V bil, MACIA, Tite 1nmnager of the ellb woIN 111witym Iml1i, ite1it next Ioo, Iita111tiall traltlo hloueo tt1d mle (1t0l CerleInly have lw01,4d if 0110 1i1Il W1uiti to, t1h letUH 1 t,d(hi dls uHsinU (1t4 wore going oil t th (ueo, lI', ( IA t,,'. You thlik It, Is pomlbho tltL the lialy might Jitivo Wiltted to II4ttl to wht will Igoluigot
MrIs MvuIA. I thiuk so, ltir. CI,Atly, Tiat Is wlht you hd lin mtnd when you sald you dih't know tiy eould possibly
Mrs,how MmqA lulw 11'11ow litmutubdertland It. hIt. ('l.,ly, Wits tlt'1(111it ulhlhlg ther of 1111y 11zo or llttbi1ee? 
Mrs. MrI,, No, It wnm atn old ho11e-it hotollu h1t hlld bitut fi11t1ml intitao wotili's dlub, It wits a111out-it htld oue very largil rooliu, it[l hald a living holso bes4des Ihtt tho manotager lived it, rooniH for Iher 111 ,aIe11 ',iuodati n1
Mr, MierA',, TO5. Mir. ClttItt, Ort Was Iliee tldurt be a1h11muount saId I Mts, MCIA, It was paid by the month, but what it was I don't knows Paid ontt of the dues collected front tIto members, is thatMr. I'i ('LAUD. ilt f liSet't? That is right, Mir. Ci,ARY. W1s it 11md for any othe1, puIrjpose! " Mi'S. MAVIA, I reolly dot't know, except for the meeting of tho Womell's Cub, pItmls. Mi, CL Iln'. I se,o.
Mr. JAtCKSON. To your own personall knowledge were any ienibors of the Wotnen's Chib inembers of the Conmmunist group that met there? 
Mrs. McAC, I couldn't answer that questions I don't know.
Mr, Dayt. Maya ask thione question? i, V1Uim. Mr.Doylet
Mr. u)oss. As I understand it, Mrs. Macla, these natnes which you are giving us aire totally the gtoi11 of nUnies which it the course of your re,)rietation of the FBIyou have already reported to the FBI?
Mrs MACIA. I hAVe. 
Mr, Doyvim, I think you said you made them a report twice amonth?
Mrs MACIA. Afterevery meeting.
Mr. Doyum. After every meeting you reported these names to the FBItI
Mrs. MACIA. Yes, I did.
Mr. Dora Thank you.
Mr. C06Ara. Were these meetings conducted quietly or were they noisy enough so that persons In the next room could have been aware of themI
Mr. MA CA. They were conducted very quietly part of the time. Sometimes they igot excited and it was rather loud.
Mr. CLmy. How many attended those meetings norms fly I COMMJNrIT ACVwII. IN 'V1f41 LON AN(iIdMI AIIKA 676 M4I'N. MA(JIA. W V ivt V hold IN Manyll3 ON~ 6() 1111,1piplti, lift. whetn fll$~ iiie~ll~iP4IIJ li it'iii f l111. liut'go it, %%4i14 IItiiIuIia' l l-tly II-hii oeiliIII ) t 141111111411'11p-411111H ii', fiilne 1114111111 41411)111)1 MINlI 001lit 1;) Of 11111' glf0itJ H. A.f r. (f,AIII)Y I *1111pilono 1lit 4-oiii ligfi Iiii1l gfjiiign %vi6It flifii riie ~ii 111(1I it (14)(11, VfiII I w0(PJPlii 11111I 11(It tiFmfi fi ol l li ht, iti11411-4 very
MrH-. MAVIA. YON. hil',. JAMIt(N I P411 j1)JfIs %'lilil I lip.P goot, full of h1i1a auf1 mw'iH vls-1 thet Un~-Amoim, At- .vitlo k' (fPlililftt 'lOf ie Hlimt oJ l~ i 01 MIII',4 MAVIA. Yell, 4l1'. e@it 'KNON. M 1)11 t gi .Vil 11841 to voIIni (10IPI'l ff114 1i1.4IhI At P-.'fAvI4,N NIK. Nowv, Iii %vill IpP'PI('I, jihie~iwit I t hi wime',,youl 1141111d PINliii vi g ol teilauhull, 1111 1111U mo 'RHof Ytiu lflll o-ip, 'A.0i1 I oo weonlhtiig ft. flhe Went, A&IN dnu~ orm'i' l,ph liff Idifng. 14. MNAM~A. St'4il 1141 110140 itit lAlloy, M-111- Io-y. I don't, konow wiuut 1lu11ii. twt'uillif iltw miept' MlI'. TI'APN NPII1. WVil II I ul'f10'fit(f, plhi40 flH, AIA('IA, AIOI'i4 fillf Iill, h 01)p1411. 'j11g014ts 11111111-4 10 Vf gi Vet', IiiIt *111Thl A111'. TIAVRN NP'11 Ill) HOIP'Y. Ididnl't,hl'i'. fi iiu ANIA. 'I'1i01H0 11ti1111.14 IIuVII givelt. Hophl oll*( ltolf Mlilloy ~illin lIIIP'()PI 1 hiave 111w) give,,., LeI .'n iel'u t ,-n 111111 i11. W41litii, l -llnan.RIIi Welman lind n br'othaer, No) Milli told IIIt$, who %v'uut ill biliHlttiP IllnMexieo (City. Mlen took mnuuly tri1p" (hI'hiIg tflif t, Mile flew to)Mexico City, to colidliit bhisiso if lhter owP, N4110 1Dadd. MV'. JACi(PON. D~id IMuhold ally (ifflM in thlie (ComulnIt Plarty or Nerve it Ii tiy *ipeeiad capIacity of which you honve knowled-tge? MI-H. MAOIA. No, lot fitly different fronti umyself. 14he waIH joist a I11i11hI. Anilta loyagian, B-o-y..a-g-l-a-n. Another name she gave C-h-a-t.'-n-o-v.e-r, Chati hover. That is at new na me, I am sure. wasl Florence McI~onald.
Mr. TAVIOZVNY1, Will you ipell McDonald, pleasie?
Mrs. MACIA. M-c-D-on-a-J-d. Heargent Roman, R-.m-a-n.
Mr. TAvPrNxnm. Could you give us any further identifying Information regarding him?
MrS. MACIA. He came to the meetings in his uniform and 
Mrs MACIA. They were handling it a great deal rougher than talked, lectured quite frequently on the way they handled the Communist Party over in France discussed it quite at len I1.
Mr. TAvwNxFat. Well now, can you recall In a general way how lie treated the subject. of how the Communist Party was handled in FranceI it was being handled in America, In Los Angeles, at lest
Mr. JACKSON. You mean by that that thie discipline was more rigidI
Mrs MACU. More severe, much more so,
Mr. Mouwzn, Do I understand he was in the service I
Mrs. MACIA. Oh, he camoo in his'uniform and had Just been releasd from the service 576 R IN 'i'TI LOS ANORLE,3 AIA COMMUNIST AC'1IVITII service?
Mr. Mou'rwi. Wlat, braeuli of fliewais it sergeti hi teto Araiy. lio
Mrs. MAmOA. 11 didil't Say. Ile was hi tile Army. Ar, JACK8ON1. AIN . MAtAC, know wlwho hto was statioledI DOyOu No, fdo nIot. Harry Ca1m1phell, C-at-p-b-e-I. Joe Car', C-a-r-r. Joe Adlmits, ],11ill illi MorisI ]saa.,l-ln were t 11,sfor1'ed fini ithe E.llo Joli O'Neal aud his wife. 'I'ley 1IIItI, was. lIr Park group. I don't know walit fro111 ti1I'1(iico. t1.allsferr were 'h1ey wife. ld Fi.siher aiid Mary liIdlhey, B.i-il-d-l--y. Cli f Stice. l)lPI54' ? Will you sell tile llutPh, MACIA. S-t-i-C-e.
Mr. '',AVIINNEII.
Mrs-1. if you hauve auy further ideitifyAll'. 'l'AVENNElt. Again ia1y I tisk, it.? give you that iu information, Jo Mt'Closky, M.te--l-C-s-k-y. l Irs. ACI M-a-z-o-r. Hernan Mazer, It-Oig Mlyer, M-y.t'-'. TI'.is till o thit list. I/( or referred to ago tlOIIIe ahe It I IIIIIIIP r'.TAITNNEI. YOU 111,441 I ordiltry 11a.lue ill very is it tile Ii.e of 1a1ry Cap11ell. ('ipholl Call .VOl gvel is na1u1e. thatt, hlave the sese-I ilIeau ull1a1y p hople igilll'(llg lltf iiltvtditiua ? llv further idelltifVing .inforlilititOll 
Mrs. MACA. No, I cannot. fIrst al)pei-uCO at, your r . AVENNEI. I)o y011 call whether iu his way? group/ tiat. ie wats di'ed in any iusitial clothes. sport his Ai's. M.'(,IA. NoJust
Mr. 'l',V'tVER. Ile was not ill ulifOrml ?
Mrs. M8ACTA, No, he was not.. tle name of Fisher, too. Can you
Mr. Vvon Counsel, I noticed identify this person?
Mrts."AMACTA. No, I cannot.
Mr. and Mrs. Fisher? That MAr. VElitn. What was the first, name, there might be some chance a is name is fairly common and there confusion of identity. end of your list. I ir. TAVr, NNEn. It is the fifth name from the think the name was Ed Fisher. that is correct.
Mrs. MACIA. 14d Fisher, yes; as to r. Can yot recall any identifying information
Mr. TAV ENN himI Mirs. MAMIA. No, I cannot. MaciaI
Mr. JACKSON. How old a man was he, Mrs. a young man, middlewas tell-he couldn't really
Mrs. MACIA. I you his age. teli couldn't I I would say around 35 to 45, but CampbellI
Mr.
Mr. JACKSOx. age.
Mrs. MACnA. He also was about the same you.
Mr. JAMSO'N. Thank have just given us from
Mr. TAENNqER. Now, all the names youthem I have not found you this group were new names. In checking had named them before.
Mrs. MACIA. They were all new then. COMMNISTIH1 AC'rIVl'l'lC IN IMll 1.08 ANONLt'RA AIIA 577 
Mr. TI'AMNN.t. Doeus Youri list, also( iille li Owitittit'S of I)('t'Ofl li iis. list'?~ 1lint. youl iiiiitted onl Ow Mt'-S. MA('IA. 01,t, V's, iJill 1utj W(I'(' Ii' ft II I (JIll. gi'oiIlJ. itlito V01 I-P'('ret (0I your1 1-0-0'(J-d I hit'r 1111d1 Ali'. 'lAVKN NPJII. ( "i Y stIll tit'ibt't's of y(Jtl gi-ot )? t I~ilios w i't'vme Nlt'S. M~ACJ.A. 10t'('( Pi11111111 W1104- (0ilt. 11P, b~y I li(I WV, WAtS it tiliA~il. TIAVENNi. All iht Al 's. Ac.m. S1ti1i AIm!I. All's. A lpe~ti- . Mit ii11id Aflri' It11illi. Sophlili11nid let-ill Sillit. ytni Rom. 1111d I ti've 8111111, S-un-' f Si--. (Ilohilst(ei ii. l'iti Spiviik, B 1-)iVt-. Iir-seli, I CIi ik t-biut. is iil . All'. 'l'.VtN NEUl. You l5o(k( of Ilitili'' hm Do, You Ictiow W1v,'i' it'oI Ito Jetfrl'Jl (flu11)a1ving thuis *lfelsott ('I ti1t groiup was lJctatedl ot'iginli Ily ? At's. AikuIA. Not, i'xito'tly. It. wiis (oil VelIlnott, Avi'(uie. Quite It (list ithi('( (ilt. I doii't know' just.1 wlett' it, wits. All'. TIAVENINF1iL D id youl piepule it list, of those I bitt. ('little C{Jyoulr gt'(Jit) f ron the *Ielret's(Ji ClubV
Mrs-. MAuCI.. YPS, I olio. )YOU huai' tMat Original-All1'. TIAIEN NM~t. DO AMrs. MAI.Yes, I hlave it, liet'e. Alt'. TIAVENNERI. DO OU 1JI OWe h list, t1hintt you iul 1e or'iginallhy while you were it tiehlihber of the Coinutiist P ty Air's. MAIA Yes, 1 do0 hRve. Air. TAVENNEit. I offer' it iii evitlettee tandtitisk it he niuirked "Mfacia Exhibit No. V." Altr. vTht,t~i,. Wit htotit. obIjectiotn, it, W~ill be reee ivetl. ('I'be locu'iilt reCf(iere to wi'ts maritked "MIJ.ciiI Exluihit No. 711 for identification, and(wias re'eivedl inii (lle(e.)
Mr. '1'AVENNEII. Will Youi give us the num11es, Pl'ase, of those whio Caine t~o yourl gt'otq) froiti tOle eJefrerson Clutb, itid suchl identifying infornintlo its you can recatll i
Mrs. MACIA. I can give you very, little information oti the Jefferson Club. IThey only i'elitilled in our' group for tht'e 01' fourti' eetings. Then they went oJut into other groups. Mar'y thine, Adatms. Artluur an(] Doi'othiy Anhiaftzer, A-n-h-a-t-tYz-e-r. Ernest D)awson. Sadie Dawvson. Mnd June Dawson Kelly, a dauiter of Ernest and ,Sndtie Dawson.
Mr. DoyLE. Isn't Ernest Damwson now deceased
Mr's. MACIA. Yes. #Jiacob Geyer, who also went by the naine of Jack Geyer, G-e-y-e-r. And Sara, Geyer. tJulne Kelleher, K-e-l-l-e-li-e-r. Her nickname was Kay M~r. TAYENNER. What is the spelling of tile last nameI i's. AA. K'e-l-l-e-h-e-r. Edith Landaul, L-a-n-d-a-1-1. That is '3rs~r. TAVENNER. Is that allf 1rMAoL&. That is all, yes. 61747-583-.pt. 2-1O 578 COMMUTE ACNT S In TH LOS ANGELES AEA IMr. TAVVN?;mX. Now did you prepare any additional lists of members of your cell in the communist Party I 
Mrs. MACA. Yes there were several of us transferred from the West Adanms Women's Cub meeting place. We were still the West Adams roup. We were transferred to what I called the 30th Street group. don't know what the name of the club was. But I have it in my notes as the 80th Street group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell us about the date of that transfer I
Mrs. MACLA. Well, it must have been in the spring of 1048 because I didn't attend too many meetings after being transferred to this group. 
Mr. TAvYENEU. Were very many members of your group assigned to the 80th Street groupI . (Representative b'rancis E. Walter re-entered the hearing room at this point, 10:45 a. in.)
Mrs. MACLA. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask a question thereI
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. When you say 30th Street, was that the meeting place I
Mrs. MA0CA. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Was it on East 30th or West 80th?
Mrs. MACIA. West 80th.
Mr. D.,YLE. Approximately what block on West 30th?
Mrs. MACIA. It was amout three blocks off Jefferson. I went down on the Jefferson car and walked back. I walked north 2 blocks and east 8 blocks.
Mr. DoyLe. That would be approximately how many blocks west of Main Street or west of Figueroa I Jefferson runs parallel with 80th.
Mrs. MA01A. Yes, I know it does. I really can't tell.
Mr. DoYLz. Was it as far west as the Women's Club Building which had been rentedI
Mrs. MACIA. I don't think so.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. TAvENNEXI. I believe you were preparing to give us the number of people who transferred to that group with you.
Mrs. MACIA. Pardon me. Yes, there were 6 or 7 of us. I think there were six. I have six here and I think that was all that was transferred.
Mr. TAVENNE. Will you give the names of the six who were transferred with youI
Mrs. MACIA. Sara Kusnitz, Sam and Mary Rubin, Hymie Alpert, Edith Hershey, and myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wilt you give the spelling of the last name? 
Mrs. MACU. H-e-r-s-h-e-y.
Mr. TAvENNE. How many were in the new group to which you were assigned, that i, the 80th Street group? Kra. MAO. I really couldn't tell you, because I think I only attended three meetings and there were several of them that didn't ap. pear at the second meeting, and there were others that appeared at the, second meeting, that didn t come to the third, so I never really knew who belonged to this group. It was not a large group, however. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAvzNNE. ,'that groupI 579 Did you make a record of any of the members of 
Mrs. MACIA Yes I have.
Mr. TAVENNEl. Bid you make the record in the same general manner that you have made the records of those who were at the other group?
Mrs. MAOIA Yes that is the way I made the records.
Mr. TAVEN ER. bo you have that list with you, as you originally prepared it?
Mrs. MA A Yes I do.
Mr. TAVEN E . ? offer it in evidence and ask it be marked "Macia Exhibit No. 8."
Mr. VELWE. Without objection, it will be received in evidence. (The document referred to was marked "Macia Exhibit No. 8"for identification, and was received in evidence.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names of the 30th Street group I
Mrs. MACIA. There was Marsha and Gus Browne. Their number was 3569 West 80th. B-r-o-w-n-e. Jane Callender.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you again to give us all the identifying information you can recall.
Mrs. MACIA. I shall. Paul Allen, A-i-I-e-n. Nathan Gervin, G-e-r-v-i-n. Jane Callender, C-a-l-l-e-n-d-e-r. Bob Robinson, R.o-b-i-n-s-o-n. And Marjorie Robinson. They were both graduates of the University of Southern California. They were Negroes. Morris Karson, K-a-r-s-o-n who was also known as "Rd"Karson. Bobbie Karson, who was peraps his wife. And Ethel Karson and -Charles Karson. I think they were husband and wife. Sanford Bernstein, B-e-r-n-s-t-e-i-n. Lawn Brooks. Tommy Downs D-o-w-n-s. Frank Moskin, SMo-s-k-i-n. Nina Handman, H-a-n-d-m-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNE. Does that complete the list?
Mrs. MACiA. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. The receipts which we presented to you bearing -date of April 12 1948, had at the left-handed lower margin the name -of the organization as "63," which you indicated meant 63d Assembly District.
Mrs. MA IA. Yes it did. Whether the "2"--is that what you mean t
Mr. TAvENz,. es.
Mrs. MACL,. Whether the "2" stands for the fact there were 2 meet. ing places or 2 groups, or whether it meant something else I don't ,know.
Mr. TAvENMR. Was that still an additional group of the Commu. nist Party of which you were a member?
Mrs. MAcIA. Yes, that was the same as the West Adams.
Mr. TAvNNR. The same as the West Adams?
Mrs. MAoXA. Yes. 
Mr. VuwxL The committee will be at recess for 10 minutes. (Whereupon, a recess was taken from 10:55 until 11:05 a. m.) 880) ('NtMUNhI' Me~. Itmi AIITINAtIt VT's (IIIII 1141111, N iI'A IN '111M LA I~i wilwuI lto l : otil'i IvI lit AN0141ItRH A1114A vdp (ilittof'1y uiy &sO.is-I'dtlo eeo lilt f itlli Woldt ~ d b, Nlhut iv"hilei will) il It disif.V1111YIve-110 yl il t, t s lit' Iliki10 tittilt dili NIP. 'NIA 'A. S111-11~t I()oimilYV ouwi?4 Wes. Adam.~ Cl hun NIflti. oitll 11 StIvt ( 11111). il" VIII)tt you v''illho y Iit'r to yoii' gIMnip f P11i1Y (1411 Ist'it 11do14 hise 1111m ti'.lfI gt'I' i livi )itI f lttt'i' miu111gmmi l It' Wltt otiiiodvelitvi'.I I 111111, AN ls. MIA, . 1'411014 DIM 01 o 11bylle',g'm mIv oMe lit'ebig tl u'c I 'ohlt'ini~I l i 61 3' iitii 141 g oitipI'(s'iti ltim i1nmu uu'gmtifinlou info %il uolo itVn t ' hIivIIIti imill. NOs tt lit' oing I t M lim if ii In'm t Im cwt''~oil tl ilt'm11 t l, tI he old 'l i i~ t tduIlmi t iu mtt lilt Io lit, t itll1 4 1u olu ''mi almu h flitil i ''ml( 1 u10iiiht wui lsi Illd b1umiiwh 11i
Mr. .wt e poit m , l tt V 1111 ltillf I dol lio mh it.
Mrs. ) N IIlt. I NItii ' aiotelie' nt %v iii t t'the 1114,11 Out',l DIe.,(lm ntso4111
Mrt'. (hAS et'silteitot woits Avotb','IImtisnlIrtntu''nw did tt hf W~its le 'r i's. itt'imi hmue Nit'., 'TunI t. th111 OI 111t' hirls. Nhmt . 11% Nodv on't. t ig so . l HIIIIII w l411. 11111oggd o'I etvev lin i il-ll Igtuitsc Int 111111 l%%oll 1111te r IA el, tlilheyll did.f-li
Mrs.eMB s otmiyo 010, i"Ar ON111iiaothlleni liords
Mrs. NAIA%.
Mr. TVxtam
Mrs. MACIA. whfwre JCA NO atdn't. I wso.adn Air. Vn. VAmther alihetedDiietssi
MrM. MACIA. Yt's 1 111 N tfillvi oldt'ripac toRlewt 0111 1 StO1 WAdh. il the of fs ime oh b11sis of.S Ac lui hmdd Y(\tft'ndn th t-tC letmg did. lcetat y11t abut. 114te. ll ilvl, letr apcal htt VINIOMNIW1' Ati'IVIVIKM IN 111111, 1,014 AN(1lItRM AIMIA 6~81 pility ti'et-lso Iho('td to Ill. Air. TlAVIINNII 1-0 11et' (Ittof dov' iif Ionl (of (?onmui111 1sf.1tuty tlliuners Inl ( onunnnlst.1 l'ar4y ltttiatpiv. A flet Ito Iidodt ,imtloti toolt placo 11)1( fthey were m-itnorred Empeeltilly if dhey were) 1141w I o flip (COmIltilsl if-hi't' gi'oti, At'. TIAVIINNv'It. 11OW WOldI( 1fi01 Iilt-Ihi4'tioii jirat-fit't (htveh)( .1low wViH" It.d~'(Impii'( It)oll 11IIP meetings? t'1, b)y IIthirIrs who camne. to ANh's. AMA. BY si1-1itiy ittit by3 Imeg' W11111 414litif t st,1141 VOti4i4t. Of? At 1'.'lAVIIN N11,11. NI 1-14.MIAl IA. AittitII-i l 111I41 SO) fo0011, Aft '. TlAVIN NlIt. 101)liis10011 lit iitiuturle~ ' miw n or(1( N11d a's. A . llftto' 0141rum ( Ii n i HOI 1111-0 (Ii Alla'. TAVMN NII. Al i'. 'IAhi'MN FmI 1104 flitsyol(imsim on't lilookmfo. Mlrs. Alim D~JawsI i timoher It(okt 111 111101 (i1-0ti1111Vtu utYut ~tI~i)Il( lloWoitlire.iY11hit I thik t l~ktrsw woit Iofi ithei ~id D it. (lil ytt1'415 Ali'. 1'AI'NNP'It. WIN 110Itu hOt u t .11to jHII'iil'ille 
Mr's. AIACI. i't.it%'ly. Alt. 'I'V NNI. Do lvol now uitlier simons, r Cluai~res We Ala', Sn. Alt's,1(1. I ilt Wtt. IoChirk te MId tillfthi-'itbook from) 3'Iiteximllt feslttoi h'ttoi, tid Oiils coI dinet ouan ('Ing't.tttt youINNI 'ot 1e 111 knit pu twos i foikt yo ie d-orn in thii n of Ivtittil iot f tI it omit i i i'tiiii. im Ito tlemttItlt'l 11 ti-4,11 I hiukt l-S hut 11I ow #'')''t I mot-, om Asttgimt (' 9.1'a th prnes f9t fn onio h i o9utI))tht o is 11(11inv bf'.TAVHi I itilihit' E1ian dI ttf)~ 81111i1',Ve bodi ogt1111t. t ht'seIi'ilt odieS. Migi i. 111k41 Phit nnte'ittC .lgiituisdvuti))1111P41 Aobullie tiiENttet'1 Yof tuttliyersive thrgiot1. Ith cunty~,i( anuv to Yhiouk 4yomI tvey kid0 Ais AIACIA. 'I'huuttk yo. All. TV~RNNEAlt. (Ihurdyo? r-hr(umfos M.Cifimn a co tio r tbe tlilt It vy thorotihtyl Aft', (We.1. A1ut think , lv I itt.ytt ' Oh"4t)- 582 COM UISTATIViTIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. Vymm. Mr. SchererI
Mr S nznf. No questions, Mir. VFLnp. Mr. Walter I
Mr, WAr 'R1. No questions. 
Mr. VzLn. Mr. M'oulder?
Mr. Mom.uzn. No questions. (Representatives Fritzier and Doyle entered the hearing room at this point, 11: 15 a. M.) 
Mr. Vm.nn. Mr. Frazier?
Mr. FftAEIER. No questions.
Mr. VELn. Mr. Doyle 
Mr. Dosr E. Yes- I do have, it it is my time to ask a question. 
Mrs. Macia, at the time you made some of your testimony I made notes on some of it, but do I understand that you attended these Commie cells in Los Angeles as late as January 1949
Mrs. MACTA. No; I don't think I attended after November 1948.
Mr. DoYLE. And those cells that you have related were active as late as that; were they? 
Mrs. MACIA. They were.
Mr. DoYLE. At least to your knowledge they were active that late and then they have been active later than that, as far as you know
Mrs. MACIA. As far as I know; yes.
Mr. DOYLE. You think they were, as far as you know?
Mrs. MACIA. They showed no inclination to disband.
Mr. DoYLE. Why, if you know, were the five members transferred to the 30th Street unit?
Mrs. MACIA. Well, because that group was becoming too unwieldy, there were too many members.
Mr. DomE. You said thig-I think this was your exact wording: "Allen, whose real name was Stone, he had revolutionary ideas." Do you remember so saying?
Mrs. MACTA. Well, lie was always advising the group to rise up and fight and gain members, and prepare themselves to be ready when the dav came. When was that big day to come? 4i fr.DoyL.
Mrs. MACIA. Well, he didn't say.
Mr. DOYLE. You said he addressed the group many times?
Mrs. MACIA. He did.
Mr. DomE. And when you said he had revolutionary ideas and told them to rise up, what sort of a revolution did he advocate or speak of?
Mrs. MACTA. They seemed to understand what it was all about. I didn't.
Mr. DOYLe. Did they discuss in their meetings the work of the United States Congress through the Un-American Activities Com. mittee?
Mrs. MACIA. It was touched on very lightly.
Mr. DoyhE. And I understood you to say that this man Stone, his real name being Stone, as far as you know, said: "So, women, rise up and infiltrate synagogues and churches."
Mrs. MACIA. And homes, wherever two women were gathered together.
Mr. Dovtz. What was the response of the women to that word? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TIO LOS ANOELES AIEA 583 
Mrs%MACIA. They seeMed to think it was the proper thing to do. 
Mr. Doytax. Wei, to your knowledge did they state or Idicate that they would do that or try to do that
Mrs. MACIA. I don't know.
Mr. l)oyi,E. You didn't know whether they actually did anything following his advocacy of that?
Mrs. MACIA. No. 
Mr. l)oyt. I think, Mr. Chairman, while I have done it before, in connection with this witnen' testimony that this man Stone had revolutionary ideas and advocated it openly and addressed the group many times advocating revolution and the group seemed to understand what he meant, that I want again to just call to the attention of the group that may he listening and for the record this one paragraph of lPullic Law 831 of the 8ist Congress, which deals with this subject of the world Communist movement, and I read Public Law 831, 81st Congress, chapter 1024, 2d session, section 2: Nevcealty for legilation. As a result of evidence adduced before varlouR cominittees of the Hennte and the Ifouse of Itepresentativen, the Congress hereby finds that there exists a worldwide Communist moventhent which In Its origin, ita development, and Its present practice Is a worllwide revolutionary movement whose purpose Im hy treachery anti deceit Infiltration Into other groups, governmental and otherwise, espionage, sabotage, terrorism, and any other means that may he nmessary to bring about it Comninist totalitarian dictatorship throughout the world through the medium of worldwide Communist organization. I want to ask one more question. Was there any effort with any of these Commie cells that you were theoretically a member of in the performance of. your, patriotic duty, for which I wish to compliment you, and compliment you very earnestly and sincerely; was there any effort to urge work among young people, school children, high-school children, college stu(lents? DIo you recall any?
Mrs. MACIA. Not that I know of. They did sell the books to young mothers to take home for the little children, to take home to read them nursery rhymes, and so forth, that were truly communistic.
Mr. DOTLH. When you say they were children's books, was that what I understood?
Mrs. MACIA. And nursery rhymes.
Mr. DoEr. Do you have a sample of those?
Mrs. MACIA. No; I am sorry I do not. I took home the one I bought and burned it in my fireplace, because I didn't want it.
Mr. DomE. In other words, you tell me that those nursery rhymes were entirely different?
Mrs. MACIA. They were based on the same nursery rhymes that we know, but they were entirely different from the ones that we learned.
Mr. DoYLE. In what way different?
Mrs. MACIA. It would be hard for me to tell you. 
Mr. DoYLE. Well, you said they were communistic.
Mrs. MACIA. Yes; they were written for the Communist Party's children.
Mr. DovLE. At what age level would these children's booksguch as the one you burned up-be attractive? In other words, w, at age children would these Communist nursery rhymes reach,#
Mr. MACIA. It was baby rhymes like A Little Birdie in the Tree, and so forth. 584 OMMUNI1'P A(ViiVl'IKN IN TiJlQ IOM ANORIIA AII'7A MIr. CAIIY. YOO Inli1a they Welt 1id tlRy 1111(t0 H01110 (,0VOt , tyll of oormtlol fit their smi1 1e.tr. ft,
Mrs, MAtA. That is Irght.,
Mr. CIAmY.mU T110,0 just CollimmItnst, theory I (0tli11gl the n1rs11y rhlynlI 1t, tilttl) Mi's, ]hlA, To lil, t1t CmlnmiMa11111t h0o.10, Air. (IIIIAu. '1IPy Mii11'tlUitty iPerly; doll't tlulyV
Mrs. MAOIA, YOesj tey do; 1111d thiy slIay 11110.
Mr. CasARy. Y ; wl hllvo had a lot of vldleteo of that,. oo1n1ltUo i. gIhg to stay rathere liae, too.
Mr. l)oyao. Think you very 1nuieh. I thfikt that Is all. And thill 
Mr, Vimtn. Mr. (odnIII IsNh [,1101-0 11ny IoWlln Why this Witness4 should not be exoued I 
Mr.'l'vANNEm. No sir. 
Mr. V qc.w', Aevolrllligly, the witnu Isi exeulxoi with the vomillitttoo Isthanks, Mi, MAVIA. Alind mty I thank you a11 for givlni tue thle thI'lvilego O lofiPearinl bef~oreou. 711 1fiet it & eadi o111 ivilego. Air. VmI. )o yoi' have lny other1iWtess at the lprsnt, time?
Mr. '1'vtuNNi1t. \Vell, Mr, (lhaiiulm, I havo 1 or- .3 niittt'rs holO whiioh light.Ie is( at this t111o. 
Mr. VKum. llm P -.td. 
Mr. TAVRINNNI,, I lIAVO it letter lldld, ' l to Mir, J,,(RkSOh b.y it perso by ho na e, of Amie, orgll. liIt the letter she stat: y 11111110 Is Anno Morgannd itiui I wish to say I in not, the Ame Morgan tiIliitiomnd on television tiis niorni is hlaving hemi or I5 1tow it Comiatuiiiist." The letter is dated Mardh ,2I, 'ThI writer of the wt tl goes on to state tvrtain very decided views ginllst. cmnuimnit iHi , d a couillnotditioll to the 6olllii1ittee, paragraph: til t ien iWilldo III ) With this Therefore, a I hold a rittton of trlst it our church, I would ltko it mlke It clar, I ai siuro we till 3o know or lailit know that I am not tho Aui Molrgllu teitloned iln televittioll its it Comlmunist. 
Mr. Moum".t, Whatt is the addlv.q ol that, Mr. TIavenner I
Mr. 'l.VENNtt. It. is signed "Sineevely yours, Mrs. Charles R. Alorgan (AnnO Morgan), 4420 Holth WiltonPlace, Los Angel s."
Mr. CL.%Rtny. Do You recall the addire s of thle other Anne'Morgli
Mr. TAVINNRU. *o; I do not. 
Mr. CL uny. Perhaps it might be well to state the occupation and Isilion of the other one so that there will be no question in anybody's mind.
Mr. TAvwlsKN, The other person was identified as Ann Roth Morgan, to my rm-ollection. There has just coie, to the attention of the conintittee this morning a letter addrt&,, to tle chairman by Mr. Robert Weil in behailf of 
Mr. William N. Robsou. Tie letter is as follows: We have been advim that 1i recent days it has become the policy of the Committee on Un-American Activities, as evulenced by public stateltoits of its members, to allow a hearing to persons who have been mentioned by nate in committee reports concerning the organizations and activities Into which the committee has been inquiring. I agree that this policy on tile part of your com. mittee Is In accord with the highest Anerlcan traditions of fair play and Justice. We represent William N. Robson, who for many years has been a prominent radio writer, director, and producer. Mr. Robson's name appeared in the official report of the Committee on Un-American Activities, Seventy-eighth Congress, (COMeMt1NiAl Aui(VVIIEiKH IN '1111E~ 1.04 ANOHIA.3H AEiA 585, 11411141ii41 14iee'eeliii ijeilillK Nip, It, Jltigi V 0l, wytiiirt hills lDeiiiii Will Ilmlood nmeit Npolilit eser lit cu efiitpozeitti e'ifleel ArtIllile lPreece 'I'll %Vill flec' WVcr, Mr. likilmoo it ce vr lotlo'e ctilit d nost-'r Novo'ii iiieiileior tot 11ise eiiiinliel llee ly eecori l lt vte, In filly' hit'Ili' necuieie'fr In fII'se'ill 11111111l iee rtitD uergicleil1 I~l ,ll. 111 e111 e 'i 0 utli eee141 ugit IlWeII 111lieleiVI. W111-11 lee eire'luolleeeilook Ihues le'lfete Air. Rlsisc titl ale I'Il ecI It" )ie 4.41114111l I ltit'relieuileil' uneer viule lile himiee w iieie oem silr, ue sued ilclihow im Imilw ll l 01siuliolei il) 11111114 411111 c Ioe leen Ific loweliel sigei~ 'd Ilie 11t11140ic1(111 i ti fl ivil Deeieso, i'iiieiloiey fir Ifoloery A, ',Voiegie', iiued wet tire' Intceriel IDnIDlilt 1 e' if) le ilit14 W'ili Olc I04'ele'reil lhuiri'cii fit I Dlvi'iilluciDlie, lilt lee'leeut it hi r, fihtotou wit' ilrelly rdelil 1114eei l ipidrt iet Ifoellow14 hirI'. lii liit itiloiket a vieliiiiuery l it ION 1eehiirlcM ill iii'tce 111141'e iett luicit I 110 etl( 'teii'e' 1-0Y01e1' t-4111iiui110 leit 11I 111c11I atooiee ii ot ' iiciiciii ti'i Lll Auepei'es itIDIlilt eeif it t liii iilil Ii, Wol' eieeir'it oo ee4ri'11 e lict '1'e'v r iliii'iiDD1itee yelD tfolly W111li Ito flok Ill their liiiitee'esi' 11u11%viiit1i) cie1"ie niciii op-ii I'fffl li this' eeiinift voeeii''tiig flits i'lriiiisj (i'l imi i'Der w~'ille'i IlON i'trititat l eeld i cvir iit* ift )ii tee'1 reicert, It 14eiliI Il#efill irmIei'liti I pit s Wel ifeiveiil'c i lli c is eciiteiilt ili'cn ivelo Mlot iilwititrDeiiic ct Ai r. litleilon. %Vol ilt'Cletick I liigli 1114 i' 11e1t14 lit oll-111uiicig ii cii ey tot thu.w lelt ter lI t liti Iiirilo . Youie sry Drill), Ieier~/~ It,haes l'itt-I ii'ed to rendui tlint, Ili tioh record. Mi. VKILi*, YPs, I think te 'fli eord( Sidil isow it. f an 1A.les
Mr'. TAVINNEID. It should Io (lono Ia itnmutteir (if r'(eord cliust of Clhe p)roeit business wit leavo not hall lil opportuisity to R. cordi ai bearing to hiutilt Ibis immediate beailng,
Mr. Vi'.i,tm. lBut certainly i soon1 DiSpjoisiblo flee committee wilt grant~ tie maila Clee during, either Ii txeciitive, or openly sesion, at his
Mr. T1AVH.NNPIR, T have Just received another rommoieion. This traenismiitted by telephone, from Mr. John 1P. O'Neil, 2:328 4South IoJpe, Ii which hie denies having bxen it Conenunimt. or being one. I don't know whether his5 namefl WiS mientioneid in tiny conn tieion or not. I dlo not recall It, except there wamsia person by thle name of O'Nil melntioned onl the list just given. A simiilar iniesngie hum been received from at person liv the nalme of 10i~'l40 IWest Wdtl Street, [os eder Rva Johinson, at waitress and.i af Angeoles. wats Mfr. TAvJ.NNY.R. That is the purport of her telephone rnessnge.
Mr. 8(nIirim.at. Mr. Chairman, w1iile we are reading letters into the leCord, I have a letter which I would like to read into the record and mnake a few comments about. This letter is daited March 27, addressed to this committee and signed bly one Robert (Icimion, slnd it isrelative to the testimony of Mr. Simon Lazarus who is the owvner of the Indlependent Production Corp). who tefitieti
Mr. TrAvpNNjPRn. I believe that was real yesterday.
Mr. S01uI~ER. Wa18 it? 
Mr. TAVPNNEII. I am certain that it 'was read yesterday.
Mr. CLAnDY. This is dated March 27. 1 recall one letter. I am not sure it is the same one.
Mr. TAvIpNN1W. We read a letter from Mr. Gammon which said that he was aiot connected with Mr. Lazaruis' firm and that lie was a worker, a back lot worker of some kind.
Mr. SOJEER~. No, I think this Is entirely a different letter, Mr. Counsel. Would you like to look at itf
Mr. CLARIDY. It touches on another phase of Latarus' testimony, too. 80 COMMUNITY A(Y1IVI'TI I' IT14LOS ANtllht. AIRMA 
Mr. idifferent lottlrl hMIP, 8omtlat, 'lAVmNN 111.Is1tthnt INmllh II-1'll loite1r. 
Mr. 8ilmtl, I thought It,wil, I 1hh11 in l, hefo reading file lIt.. tOr III view of wlt ou s10td, Mr. C0umoiw so h11 1-001 J1mt bhe1ly thmat dlurilng Mi, l. CI'1-1 h01h4111011Y With l'EI,(141 o111o 111doiitdltmto ft P o'dlletll11 l'lp, M 1,1h.u'l,11 wit 11H(41 hy (.4lt4t1ol (ih0 1114111 hil ld ivhlluilm w h oh ad l)"Ifloilpla11 w ith hIt 11ll -R1' I111 xatloo of that corporation . e lletl to ay wh lt klu1w (h.1o idlvihnls o'fi1 fity way Identify thlem. it will ho recallel further, at 10s01 t, s lly rtull04o0 Iou tmtI 11ieWilli pres'lt it a corllIi ('O) ) of tho artIle of hltot,)Ol'Iltoil fledMdl Will 1o H'i0l'eti1'y of Mhilt of the State of California. Tmt coItillld tiopy ll(lltd 1l11h1t.ial it nulel r of other persons oil the saint( dat ilo're liuotly p1lIhli lhid Signed i11e applint olln for the letters of Il'oi)lorlth 1il, and ho tifiltid to mty whether he know those plipto or to Identify thiui In fitly way. Now, wo hivy this Hignil thllt I11(r (lOll) Mr. hl1llt)loll, who do(n applir an oll of the Illeol'po'ators of tht eol'polrlntil , Id this letter roads as follows: Thin In to I11forni you nud yu11lr eo111ittee that I not not ald never hlvl!bOli a lnuelmber of the CtOlumitUilt Party or o filty other 1ulbverNlivo grolulp. It hills colie to nty attention that when hr. I01timll lIIIe'sl ifUlir lroro your voninllleoo (Il hMaih W, 10.4'l, he nefmos to 9ivo Itforialmi rogulrlux iny numlolio nwrlit US 11 1Iorporator of MRhi. opanly. InI way (It expliuitnli'i I wimll to pltto that noy busin11 In a nervlv% for attornloy, wich Ielll'illten procesin eryig. l (O1i aixitit ptetltalboe 1, 11)111, 1 wan anket by Mr. Charleo J. KitF., An illtorlu'4y by wholly I lll 1loyed, to IA e ilUtsit yll trh illr of tll 1Irl)ormtlloll, rt. Kaitl, youm will recall. was the unitary who took the ilekiowleutepiullwt, both f
Mr.InsArns illi| all of the other Incorporator. It wan iny asIsmUption that Mr. Kati wasn t i hurry to Itt thln corporatlont atartesl and 11ledl oililnlolly for thln purlwo. Two ilys Inlter, after slgiting this, I wrn given a rilulgnt lon an director to algae antd did m. I hole thlin attonelitt will bo of help to youlr contnitti. It. is evident, that dllu11y I1ncorporators w'e used, whilh i not of oi.0'PIsol all mnIllllUaI pracic%e, biut itis sigllfileant, at. least to mie, dtl Air. lIItza rs rofl se.T to cOlnlmlent iti this l)artltcular (lSe oil the time of dummy ineorporators and did not. advise or see fit, to advise tile ,om- they, were asked to resign 2 days litter, so that ttere is no public record ias to who the actual moving spirits were behind this 11ittoeethat corporation. I don't think that need be ofored inevidence, sice I have read it in the record.
Mr. Iom-. You would say, Mr. Scherer, wouldn't you, that there is no public record of who the moving spirits in the corporation might have 1been beside Mr. Lazarts?
Mr. SCT1EII. None except for Mr. Imzarus as far as the testimony is to this point.
Mr. VEmr.Proceed.
Mr. TAV.NN ER. I would like to call Mr. Norman Byrne.
Mr. Ronrarr W. KrwNY. I don't know that I am appearing for Mr. Byrne, but he has called my office, and hie spoke to my secretary and she has relayed the message to me, that the witness lives in Lake Hughes and left there in a car and broke a spring and cannot be here until late this afternoon, and asked me to tell the committee'that he was to be here immediately after lunch, and that he would call me at home this evening or tomorrow. Air. TAVENNIM May I suggest that you get in touch with him and have him here. COMMUNITY A(?I'IVITIH IN TIM 1,)14 AN(Ii%1,1H AIRA 587 y. IVo laven't any pirofesloal roluLiotshi , ApptrMra'. K(t reldtyitg thl l e no I1 Iu han Ihloied iII tiu--ho di (.11ssege o oYLi lilt, lie Itkod to be reluyed. . hh1111 h41e%after hili, MI', #fAVPNNMIIh We ItIl- OxI)0,0
Mr. JIKNNv. lil said i tl; h jlll lolim t o ma toi in duttell io otliitg hi after Jllhll. thi, you wero OXejI 4.1111ly Ali-, Dovhi. Aflei lunch toilday, Mr. Kenny, ll HHig1i. Mi. XNNY. Thit is 111 MI. (CIAluY. MWhat d(li he say wis broken
Mr. I(tNNY. A spring,. A llring oil what?
Mr. (fIAny),
Mr. I(,NNY. ill automobile,
Mr1. '1AVRNN PIi. Ilow flit' Ilaols hO IivO from horo?
Mr. IE.NNY, Nell, lu.ke hifgle.--I wis bor in the cotmity will I .do'tt IIow whro it is, My linpri isiol is It ntist be near motiri JIke, ftld It, 1I1it ho h) in thee inlOiint1tll,
Mr. TAVII'NNv.RI. I ill0d1rHtl1lld It, iM11lolt 05 miles, and] of C()1rs1 if lil his ot leftf1ind he Is not on hil way hero lie cal't he here by 2 .)o'lk.
Mr. (JLr,^nv. Well, isthero anly ntIemSti/g o~ler titan tids?
Mr. TAVlrNKNN. Yes, sir. We would like you to have him here this afternoon.
Mr. CLARDY. What is the message?
Mr. KvNNY. It isn't a leTtr, it is a messge.. Thnt was apparently my secretary brought it in Itere. ]he says heis 7d yo phoned t m1 'going to C I 10 this eveiing or tomorrow, so I will tell himn. In other words, you can't gist in touch with him in
Mr. 'I'AVNNEII. wity I don't any~qulek know. I am just relaying this information to
Mr. KP NNY. you.
Mr. CLARI.. Would you mind telling the hour at which the message was receivedI
Mr. JKmNNY. My secretary came in I think at the time of your antipenultimate recess, the recess before the last one. I don't know the .exact time.
Mr. CrAnny. About 10 o'clock.
Mr. KENNY. About 10. Do you have any other witness?
Mr. Vw,,
Mr. KENNY. I will be glad to give the message to him when he calls.
Mrt CrAnY. How far was he from Los Angeles when this accident happened, do you know?
Mr. KENNY. ConAessman, I will give you this.
Mr. Cr^nnY. No,Idon't want to e it.
Mr. VPED. Do you have another witness, Mr. Counsel I
Mr. TAVENNIE. Yes, sir. APPEARANCE OF CHARLES A. PAGE, ACCOMPANIED BY H18 COUNSEL ROBERT W. KENNY
Mr. TAV N . Mr. Charles Page.
Mr. Kzzy. Before you proceed, Mr. Page objects to any testimony being taken over television, either audialy or visually, in fne with the decision of the District Court of the District of Columbia.
Mr. VEWE. We will take that up after he is sworn. ~~8~COMMUNIAT A(O 'ITICH IN IIII TO ANOIhPUt AIIUA Do you so!onlly swear thot h the ovid o you roull give hefotill,110 0ooiuim Ittee d1all li the truth1, the whole truth, and ithliltig 11t, (he Hoh u (lodt truthll,
Mr. PAo. ido
Mr. Viazo. So that we might tlmdorstand the ntitter iulivo 14) toloviio1l, (to volt, M', Wittess, object to boing tolevlul wltietly, tlitt is, both audio find videoI Mi'. PA010. 1 do, Sit'. ,KIIII that partia111r esHe I think It ifts hcn, (he r'ulihij
Mr. V Nl. of the coulllihoL to 'onloIII (hO lIUl'h1g 11t6l aitlllu when t11'i'4 will be no tolevlsioll equilmlent pIllil oit the wlItu,', go, tc(ordiIly, your t tiony will twcontiuod Iuil 10 o'olock next Mouday nIUl 1tg, M'. KINNY. Slndhy nmornllhng
Mr. VitKIN. Monday morning.
Mr. ''A^vNNI. Mi'. Cial'rtn, before you exot1g the witnew, jut InlOltullt, pleao. 
Mr. VtRnA. ust I%inhulte. (At this loint Mr. Tavenner conferred with Mr. Volde and other inenbers of the contit teo.) roforewA to Its phaiii has ehangod committee Vol n The Could
Mr.aPpearanee. aiftortiooiu thiswith at 4 o\3l(M'k you hIIIhero your
Mr. PuAO. Yes. Air. Vrau)Y. Therefore, you are dismissed until 4 o'clok thim afternllO, Do you have another witness, Mr. Counsel I
Mr. TAVENNUR. I believe it would bi hardly worth while to start In on anything now. 
Mr. Vrw.. That, Wing the case, the conuunittmi will stand in ad. journinent until I : 46. (Tierpupon, at 11: 45 a. IIn., the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at. 1: 45 p. in., same day.) AFI.RNIOON S5&4IoN (At the hour of . 0:3 p. in, of the sati day, the paeoetlings were resunel, th samte parties being parent, ex'eptiug liWesrumtativo Harold II. VWlde.)
Mr. J. Kso.N*. Tile coinuittee will be i order. Do you have a witness, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. ItVENNM. YeS sir. Before calling the witnest, maity I read into the reord the responses frol. certainly itdividualsi 
Mr. J.%'x.sox. Yes. . 1ere is a telephone message, handed nl, from
Mr. Tiwvrax Lillian Baron, 1622 South Mansfield, real estate business: "Pleals make it known she is not the party mentioned on the broadcast this a. m." Here is it message from Sam Horn, H-o-r-n, 839 Rimpan Boulevard: "Would like to have people know he is inI no way connected with tihe Communist Party and is not the Sain Horn mentioned on the broadcast this a. m." A message was received from a person by the name of Charles Smith. Jr,, which does not have to do with tis matter. A Charles Carson, 1401 Third Street, Manhattan Beach, called and said that he is a novelist and literary consultant and would appreciate C~OMMUIST A(TIV~ITilH IN $1-1111 1,014 AN(lki.H AIIXA Ago% Alei. AloillIV~IIt. WVilli, IN 1111V t lAil NI1, I h11I% i t ifliiit 111)0111. II fly ofIiei l 1,'lowti :11 jlIeIt. III%) Iit r'iw4)floll to I hIII li iIItI -llI lift illhiii I i llt 1111(, wVlf 1%11 IlIilc hII v 11111111 ,l1( i vI 1101t1 lt ii. ( If ItthI14)61: 11if I hil I4 v II1 itowy lo ta nI 11l,1r o o41111 l ' ,YIt HIIhIoIII f r1 11 .111,VI141 II 1'X4 I l l' fl lN lit) n i um lit~ fill, (o eti'itl"it, ofi flit Ielil of l lyitIt'll' 'd.M 101m lm 111 li 1, 4I AIizona- -11gliu' 111 I N Iti 104uldifilni iiiiiilwer, Ari'?flnit Nit find ko. V Isnlw III' 11i i'l s thi 1 ,1111 11T. 'I Ihli, rispisl niu Iil Ifim Nitrili ('iirinsi-Iilt A vonowls, Lowi Ang115iti, I 111l1r., IN 11n1tI nf111111 Iio 11-o . li 111111 iig w i l Isils11114toIy WvlIlisi M, 111sIe. I %Vulsl Urs'nt ly 1111111.14,1l1141 ysilir 11illiifll lig 111i ssirrfO'l liii fill l~it iii .i lt 1I11111 3 flit 1ItiNsIIlsil.4 11111liit I lim-fir ll Wii5 0111 01 iti l i nrI). 'l'li iN iN1141(11-411H141I (I t,1111 (1111111111n, It 1411i-dejIral Alllsrls'utl 1iisisritlI hil si to t vils'lrof 1,sies1 I II02 IN stroselly s'iss'rssisyfr I. lily tf'IUi rsilla Iii11tihiy IIiI flist Iboi A lsele inu'lismili, I erotioim rs'rserrs III5 nit '~ I'll-5't I l99sflgI 'I tn'14rm lire thu it and lilevi lieul lis-vis Inithesrcs tit Isnies I()'41. Its 11l148 flis Anll''lenili Vil~iriilt 11 it 'Iseaii'orn Iliil AI gil S i s uvie*lirsuiul s511igisix flhis' #su~'sNdstlli11I1s-46iu11sir liuse I43111 tot f lit, At. 'liii lerholsr vno rs'vsikss. Tis tivlnii Wis uph~llit InA'ls"' .'siivsentlsun- I glhiess I hill1. is "A li, f1 u51il, jj"'5* It rel'fIt1 A011 I sil't m''I 10211 WaIN it ills sit Mik114. ? hsiIle lls 1 Anglp i T1* 'eelirot Uoin 1Ss.sii i s'ri'sivlu d 111111 o (lie I1rsi111 liis'IIIiiu 1 I i ls' ol 1Nsi 11111 ilWeias iIsli 11 A. 1". fit Is. fil 1 1-14, t easd N111s 11 0ili14tusjM. Ns. iilsiI isrps #ofit Iis ii 1021 fsrst Invidft lit -hemit~su sit fsiilml~in~. 1It I tse urgionI finsd uslners hstilss it t4 11rAI haitil b reit-le pro1'5IfI iritsl I filyulln ishi Ilit, n f A sisrivao Vestsrn. I ion sir litliir stl i i mi iioiis l~Wih istoliuli thist lisnil IN lu iaris'r fy tilI'itin sit fle Aim'rlsets l'-ltortil hun sit 'Eseslisrn. Ilivoius'9 ftflly, Walele'r 14. Tlhosmel, joreotfiiet, Iwe.! WfY.1, Anlom rteua dosssraillsin siTt 'ielroo, 17871/j ?.hejulss Avesntis, Vettlsp, 00I1t. AMy reciollect ion ild livteefrdinlg If to t(h lefiioy of Prof. AIRlOy 1whit 111( it clefar Iliat Ioctl 4310 htd ito charter r-intovef Ise). t ~ie Colninuint. chlargos, and1 thajt tile locavil Ild( hH'fl1 entirely lIiuI'Iidl, (vtItf of Al! r. ( ,'ARDY. Didn't youI imiiko it pretty felealr d int, thts fedeirat iorn tiiit senlt thii~telegrilt1 illi notIIiifty wiy be~inlg charged with tiny. thig, es ietile outburfit of tile Witnecss oil tho stand toward tile close Air. TAVFJNNMR. I thotight that Was perfectly clear. 
Mr. CLARDY. I aM SUre it was. He[re INauiot her one. Air. oJACKHON. Counsel I would suiggeft, inasmu111ch as we have a number of these, that we bmold them uintil we Ilive limposed of several of thle witness and then take the balance of them up at that time. Who is your'Arst witness?
Mr. TAY-11NN1u. Harry Steinmet. APPEARANCE OP HARRY C.STEINMETZ, ACCOMPANIED BY HIO COUNSEL, ROBERT W.KENNY (Representative Francis E. Walter entered the hearing room at this point, 2.:10 P. m)
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. 9teinmetz, will yon stand and be sworn? Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give to this sub. 590) (1OM1MltNItT AC 'I't4'l1tKK IN T'I114 LOA AN(1414t04 AUW1A etuu11111let $11141 he th10 trilth, the Wheo' tt, tid withllag 11111 tita Me,\ KxN v At this pollit, hit,. (Chilrittti t,r.teinnuu'tk olbjeto to, liioiytt'Htilitlly t Iit g tt1gI hOp'l'''l~$ aadloly or v Itidioy M11~,IACKNION, ANtI'y Mvell. II accordt AIth the' 4111111i111d oft tho W11ItNes toII S. Imy il(miIttt'a~l InIIIn 11in111 with thll (iteitioll Voted itttilt t oxtoluodit'il 1 hf oikdiv%# April it,IIt. u'hiell tinle lip will tt11pein ht'oiii i itt'(tleiit f th&ottlago eolltilitlte, Ilotiflt'd, All, smlltmtm Volt will ht'i h', ('wAROV. A1101 I llligpk,4t Nit'. K01nitY, It 1 11111101 01t1. ofittt' Air. ('hinrIIIn, 11b11 It youl roprelsont. 111v othet'. wil nessits youl itt th11 witItm~~ossponk (t'itthoiislves on (unit. 11It.iaetmnitte ru-le. fottntey 1 do4 nlot Irejreseot iIIv Mtitetr %lit esm
Mr, I(NNim nt I hav eee riled( ot. of order, I titlst 1411thlat this is the 1 flow gree with to onl that. anid I thiA' Chairman ie'ksoi il aI Ai't, ,IA('KtN. ''110 Wit11089 is eXVIISed, Air, ('t.r 1 didii't itall you out. of ordlet, I am itking it sug. gk,'st ionl. Nir, JAVICAON. T wotild sav that, I hanve had no itomtplttint, with tho eo(iitt of tis eolil. Mirx HNtN. . To tutu'. 
Mr. JA('K$ox4, To(date, Withi roitervationsa for thet fittire, Mr. Kenny. AliIt (",.v That is What 1hald in ind Attx JIA'CKSON. (Nil) V0111' IIuXt. witness1, ple00.0
Mr', TIAVIKNNlIM Me. Bernard I1iohiei'. Air, AIAM101o,8. A!y nameo is Boil Margolis. Trepresent . Ttsher, "ll( ho will ho hort' init few 111iites. It Was my fitt11t In not Ifyl) 1 0111t late that ho Nvotld be onl this afternoon. 11o isonl his wity and is muld 1* bevrt in 10, lb, or' .00 minuttes. haVe 111101he1 witne'Ss C01111801? .111" JACKSN. D~O yA-01 
Mr. TIAVRNNIRil, #11tIt.a110111011t. Ppase,0 Air. Chairman. while we iU't waiting onl that. witness, It $tvlt5 to nip that I have something here thint is very pertinent and very 
Mr, TDoyi, valukable. t tilhlt state that hecamuse I wantedI iniformaltion froin the Congressientdlihr r~vi n Watshlngton as to the words "utn-American" and "1suiwersive, I coniuminted to the Library of Congress, and onl February 94. 1958f, Trteleved a reply front the library of Congress on that sub~eet. I just, hare one short paragraph which T wish to give for the informati-on of the committee and thosel who are here. They roferred ine to the decision in the case of the UNited States v. Dryan, 72 Fed. Suip. M. United States Circuit Court of Appeals, ana1 the Library of Congrms said I Tn that case It as argued the resolution authoriztng the committeeand, by the way, that is Public Law 601.at that time it was uneonstitutional because It watt too Indefinite, tn that the words Own-Atnertcau" and "1subversiver were not defined, did not have a precise and well-eatabiahed meaning. 'In reply the coart said, *Man* ain aet *ofCongress may be found In whieh gen. eral terminology Is Intentionally or unintentionally employed. The committee is ('IAtIIth1tt1W dillt'h'l ft tggi'.iollilt, ACTIVIIM IN #11111 fI' A ANti1t.1olM. AItIHA AN) iii*Atwi'rhiiI IInutlloNitlirolvtt uiflvtfle'N. '11111 t'tf iti6fN4010 f'Nse h~te siw itrViif oid tlewti it - ititioviiit' %velLI i'ii i sy i iiie flitwifi I 0 luli hill, r11 f~ilt' g11ttrgi)N i tivrloll ifo iiff y111 ol ooii~ t iv' lt. ii oililviy. Hiiiit otit'ri'etnl 111tu t'rititi 011f 11410114 t1 t l 1'i.t *it ' ivit fi il ~thu iutl el fi iiivi ' 'i iep let miiis I hut'ifn'un11 list i tiiy jaels i fil fii l t. i iiii ~eiti'Ifor teuo o fo to 'i i %1111o it nt1 l tui i ItIomIIIt fill, 11'1111 , i ndTh fill, *.il W I~sfN l lnu'%'n ii 111A1r'if 4 t1i t liii" Is10 itititi (iii %Iiik itl li ve r 41111Itiwtg.o ve 4011lil jittilwehy. lvsn-o ro il lult wI Metl 140 i wo I4Aeti, '4II N'Iw I~vl toiii IifI ltie'I lit.hit is1 III itt1i4 j utrtyinms o lol i u INiut.e 114 li l i I IJ4t.'ettinhwt nl .~ ttitinieIb . nwtits iult, I (hiik 11wtell 1id1.111111wi ltcitil Io iifwiii)Ingav. NIP 'I'.,AI:NtiN. A liii eoiu' ttd Ini i l t tu1 I ete il t vlIItI H t olbl wit' liti bi' t ieseiu, knw 'intni it al irithaNfrtw wl otitfii i043 111igited doby Alliio lAII t'ssN t111ittuvili4 IN'-uet1)1, I eegru ilb tee11.11 lit t'1111 iite0t1 , tl e 'IIItlt e t0 SV ( 08 1i1titt Al'.i h V VNt~k II I I Wl fill (liet fdl I to' uti ti t'1tu11-1111t. s i'.t 191111 AVN W ilit ittiviseti t111 111% SIN l. I(,lilthe i 110W l itr . 4 f is.fJA( 0114 1N.11t iisie ran. m%,t eilii ylmwlig l Aoi-. stIletiiihy sO Ih e t.01%IIIltimniny tesI ol11041 about.ll to dowth a tth 80 1)013)yO h itt'Slintm, wlie w~'tir iiiloie byti t liagm mbtliv. '1,isA(1101 o vlst.e tt, flli t e 1H.41ii lifi lvIiilg fe 
Mr.itIAV:N NFR. WhtI isvm yoI lntmps, s1u rinohe. Mtr. 1UHHO. All yo kndy1a8 nlh0hoogahe..r the irouh, (fe whlitiIadnliijbatetilW11)yl
Mr. Lt Crtioly 4 1imNNE. M.IVNt.What isyour name, please,ir
Mr. Lusi[ZR, Ihe namne is Beornard Ltishor. Mr. Tavenner, for the record I would like to make it clear that I am here only because I have been imbpenned, and that I inn most proud to announce that I am unfriendly to this committee. 592 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THN LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. CLRDYw. How do you spell your last name 
Mr. LusuaR. Lusher, L-u-s-h-e-r. 
Mr. TAvENNER. Are you accompanied by counselI
Mr. LusitER. I am, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record I
Mr. MAIROLM My name is Ben Margolis.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. LusherI
Mr. LusnER. Cleveland, Ohio, April 1913.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation ?
Mr. Lvsn. Union organizer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Pardon me?
Mr. L1si[ER. Union organizer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. Lustim. Mr. Tavenner I will answer these questions, but I would like to say I am most reluctant to do so, because I don't like to hell? this committee, no matter how indirectly, to carry out its attack against academic freedom.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, it is quite apparent that you don't want to help the committee, but I am asking you to do it as far as you feel you can.
Mr. LusHER. I went to grade school in Cleveland, Ohio, high school in Los Angeles, and UCLA for about 3 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee, please, a record of your employment since 1940 F
Mr. LUSHER. In 1940 I was employed as a clerical worker at the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios. Since then I have been-in 1941 I became a union organizer and I have been a union organizer except for shortly less than a year which I spent in the Army in 1945.
Mr. WAurR. I suppose when you said that you were also aware of the fact that a member of this committee wrote the Government contract law ?
Mr. LUSHER. I was not aware that he was the author.
Mr. WALTER. So that when you address your remarks to the committee you will probably say with the exception of those members of the committee who have made substantial contributions to the American way, toward the betterment and improvement of working-class people.
Mr. Lusn R. Well Mr. Walter, I have seen this committee on many occasions turn up I don't believe coincidentally, at a time when groups of workers were Aighting for higher wages and were in the middle of a crucial strike, and in so doing assist the employers in holding their employees down in terms of their wages and working conditions.
Mr. WALTzR. That, sir, is absolutely untrue, because in every instance when a Communist or one who has been believed 'to be in the .Co.munistParty who) incidentally, was employed with a labor organization has been subpenaed before this committee and requested a postponement because of a conflict, the request has been granted. That is the record of this committee.
Mr. DomL. That is correct. I join in the statement [that of Congressman Wsilter], and your [that of the witness] statement, sir, is absolutely false. I know that. I live in. Los Angeles County myself.
Mr. JAcKsom Proceed, Mr. Counsel. 
Mr. L auza. My information, gentlemen, is contrary. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 593 
Mr. DoYLe. Your information is, I know, not founded in fact. 
Mr. JACKSON. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Screen Office Employees' Guild in 1044? 
Mr. LUSHER. Mr. Tavenner, I must decline to answer that question, and I should like to explain my reasons for so declining. I shall be brief. My first reason is that the Constitution and Bil [of Rights of the United States was written by a Congress which was interested in protecting the civil rights and freedom of the American people, and I do not choose by cooperating with this particular group of Congressmen to tear down what the other Congressmen built up. My second reason is that I believe this committee to be illegal and to be pursuing an illegal objective, because the congressional committees are supposedly set up to gather facts for introduction of leislation, and since the purpose of this committee itself interferes with a freedom of speech and association and of religion, and since the Constitution prohibits such restriction, this committee can have no legal objective. "Thirdly, I believe this committee has assisted employers, as I have said, in holding down wages and working conditions, and since I am a union man a trade unionist, I believe that to help this committee would be to elp this committee accomplish its job of union busting. Fourth, I base my declination to answer on the first amendment to the Constitution, which guarantees freedom of speech, association, religion, and assembly, and I believe that your inquiry into my beliefs and into my association is prohibited under that section of the Constitution. Finally, and particularly, I base my declination to answer on the fifth amendment to the Constitution, which gives me a right to refuse to testify against myself. I would like, in the course of calling or standing upon the rights guaranteed to me by the fifth amendment to refuse to testify against myself, to call the attention of this committee to someone who is probably the best known figure in the world, who has set down something which perhaps is similar to the fifth amendment, and although I am Jewish, I refer to Jesus Christ, and I would like to quote, a very short quote, which I think will indicate that the fifth amendment is not something new. This is a quote from Mark 25: 24, and I quote from the Bible: And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answering said unto him, Thou sayest It. And the chief priests accused film of many things; but he answered nothing. And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing? Behold how many things they witness against thee. But Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate marvelled. And that is the end of the quote, Mr. Tavenner. 
Mr. CLA"r. Did you ever hear a Communist cite any section of the Bible? [Laughter.]
Mr. LUSHEI. I must decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated, Mr. Congressman.
Mr. JAcxso. The witness must be given a hearing by the committee. Please give no demonstration of approval or disapproval
Mr. Sonxam. Mr. Jackson, lust to answer the witness' attack upon members of this committee with reference to their attitude toward 81747--88-pt. 2--1 8094 ('OMMUNITH1 A(IVIT1IP44 IN TIMn i,01 ANORLdMS A101A orglillixet flifle, Mr. ('iirdy a1n1d I ituvm only beell fin fil e'otttittltteo j)Oitflt' (Pit, to Hhow- the 1 t i tioud boe for 13Illo1lttht4, bittI 111iitk don't0nmwly-b-ierfill" li.%of lt) 1stutettit, 1111011 by the wItn 10111(ll 14-01 It,tnt ppelit) e il eIt1 i ae to Stly It, but I thi11k we should know 111 htlw th'r It o bhitis 111 ft10. (or'Its tfitlitetit. 81101h ItSs 14 tO11111(10 by t11i1 WillPH III$$ l tlt' ttt I' il H two llitlm (Pf 1nut htlitl 111141111 Ulivo l III itithitif or orguitiz'd to 11w 011116i1114 for oltIP.il4 tltit( I littt'ji ptilt 1.t0 tl froti whitch I eomei, lailardd file lthe, A tniuot'ity group, linth InhIiuit'iy gro)IlpII, It 'ro-It oitblf o)111r(f aily it plttqtiei tofw vetsi lp fao. by t(hi" wiht ss, bleittist he All, I grelitty res.4%it, the stittti'ttwtt 111114Wt knoti not, whereof hot speaksm. hit-, IDon. r (llt Ih't 1) 14, 1alisk-to eoitttitil Withi thtlt itqiti tVo ittr goi say t I 11aima ) Iay 1hoVert, this4 poin1,41. tMr. 1)oyt.v. hMr. 111thk )perhupM thIis ill th10 14l1410 foP HIP to MAY It Word,1 b0Cause14 1 1111it htt'. JAIK5oN. No- liA) Angtles County Contgresman. Ill view of the gentlemanly's ahte1.gat bit Of tittioti-btstiig lit t10 1111106 of tis voitlitittev, which I sayts4lisollifelv fialso, at1d01 repent Ito, 1 think I should sayv this, so thie getleman will undert-Ahnd mny attcitude, I 1think1 it i. well. ftowii thait I r.e'eivedI Intwery on() of miy cam11paigns" for (1ltwtionl-t 11111 inl mly follrt Ittrml ttow-tttii 1'1ltVery proltdof the fact, I hatve received thi;n endlorsemnt of AF~L ndi~ ('30.' otilittoe INatware of the falet MAfy I sayv to volt, ho1Veviot titti efli of t'Ortaillpeoplkiil 111 tiot' wt ho) fire Mibvt't'51vt, litit If litilS Ilte led by 'iuh1vers noe people, why, Ilhenl, of eoi's,80 we itre coopteratting with the uions to tlti'OtV0l 1111d eXp l)0141thO Htibworsll'o atetavi ie.. If that, is the kind of atietiit~y you refer to, when you refer to aietivitioistof thia voninttep, we tio eoherat3 ait fill level of American life Other with folks wtho want, to Ket rid of this subversive ieaniersii. 01h11 that, thIiR vonlinliftWe 1.4 not Acting.
Mr, Lvsut~t. W. Doyle, 1 refer to strikebreaking aetivities of the eotmille", such its reently took plaeMr. .1Avtst. JIust a% nionlent, If we engage lin byplay find atnswers, anld eutrtwrswe will he he00 llt night.. Mir. WALTKrz No. I think hie ought to conttinuie.
Mr. 3ACKsoN. No. 'IThe witttes attd members of the committees have takent 10 iiitttttcs ap~iece. Everything is even. itir. Counsel, w in 3011 coittilite,
Mr. Ca.Attn. Mir. (lar nI cat r'efrin from itinking one stitoinent, All butt 0110 ienthier of this conitnittee is a lawyer. Of aill tho unions Ii the United States, I think tdte lawyers' union is the tightest.
Mr. TAVENNPm. Did you tita any part, in the negotiations between the United OfIe and 1Professionai Workers of Amneila and the, leadership) iii die CIO, in the (lispitto thait took place when the U1nited Othfee, and Profesional Workers of Amierica were expelled from membership in the- ClOf (At tis point Air. 141511Ctr conferred with Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. LusitriC. Mr. Taivenner, I must refuse to answer thiat question on all the grounds stOte previously, including the fifth amendment to the Consitution of the United States.
Mr.JACMSoN. May I any, sir, yott are under no compulsion to answer. You Wad, 11 mDust ref itso to answer." COMMUNIST A'T'IVI'iTIM4 IN TI1' ,09O ANUiMtP.F AIWPA 595 ht. yoo 1-',fuse Io linSwer tot tile Your1 d(IIttt lou1 (0111Niutil)Y 1h ifi reutmoim pi'eviotimly giveti. A~ir. I411sui tlt. All is ft'.*eltt, i t i my -wimei('tw' sold my bol left that motko tile sity I intit reftist fto ntismver, fire, 111ttdet'ti orli. til IIIt tlie ie'i to4014 10410WViY NMt' 41A4'tHON.1,111 ItIsIloit to ltiswet'. ytiit (ettti dpet'itit to lanswer frt the t'iqtsoti provi- ously Statod. IAi'SN NIt$ T' tiitttiist. l'I111' NtPAI Went voti oi'goizer't of lPtit tu N-2 of flip C'ollis the uttitotig f111(-111('iH' H 11111011, Wliki~l W1t4 kIIOWIn 1184 $reetille 114114,11 loyppm' (111ijid I HI t'll Jtplittt-s1114l. I o 11Wr 11,(IIHil Atit1l 11 Atoits. NI a. ('rAutuv. Mir. C0titiSPl iti' you yet tasked hlim wlint union Ieo I"tilt orgattiwzer for'? Air, rIAVFNrP.qt. No, I litiv niot. MA'. (Ct.Autr I sitiggeat you do. Mi'. IAHNwa.I'XcpIj 1 tis1eld hills if hto lilts fa"liltt(d with U1tuit40d(l1P ()lk' tid 'rOf-insiotut Woirke'rs, 111( hie dItelned t~o answer. (At. this point. Mr. Lustier conferred with Mir. Mitrgois.) fil 111WIMPtI'tt Nit'. (!kAUD , 11.4sti11 11I'OI('('t iOnf flit( nr qtiestioti, lX'I'itt Oil on I It%hiui vol imiitt' ly told ifs Ieo wtim fll orgitilizO'. 
Mr,- Do'vi'r,, niono htttotid zerr.ii'/' thle tt ee Oi with M r. MAfrgohis.) 'he (At this4 point. Ai'. Iiisli eon'i'red Mir. ILimpit. I ittst. deelitie to tinswer tliat tiuestion, Mr. Tanvenner Oil tile gr-oittids pI'eI'iOIiisly st11id. Mi'. -CuAitmu. Nowv I tusk tlui witties qutestion. be directed to answer the 
Mr. JAUI(ON. The wit nes vohtifeere( I te sitateent he wasl ituinIon Tolar ireced( to tinfwer tie tlitestion.
Mr. Lusm,t I voltittol'o(Id no ttin'iiit I answered the question of Mr. TIavenner. Mir. JACKSON. I believe yon said( sine 1940-my recollection may not. ho exact oil this, bult since 1940)yolu had beenl at union organizer. (At thisi point Mr. Luslier conferred with Mr. MAtrgohis.) Mir. Lvstimit. That wits an answer to it qutedtion, that wait not a voluntary statement.. Nit'. ,JACKSON. Irrespective of whether it was an answer or not, you did answer that qutesition. Therefore, yoti tire directed to answer the cjIestioti1 jtist Plit to Yo11 by counsel0. (At this point Mr. Lustlier conferred withl Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. Lusmir.. Mr. Jackson, my lawyer advistes me that you apparently are not aware of the loiw in this regard, and 1 believe that I am correct. in standing upon my previous answer. Mir. JAOKAON. You decline to aintwer? Mir. Lusuin. I decline to answer. Mir. JACKSON. Very well. Mir. Luampat. Onl allthe grotinds I have previously stated, including thle fifth amendment. Air. JACJ~soN. That is satisfactory.
Mr. TAvp.NNE.R. Have youi signc1 at Taft-Hartley affidavit as an orgauizer for tiny unlionl I 596 COMMMIST ACiIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOLES AREA (At this point Mr. Lusithr conferred with Mr. Margolls.)
Mr. Lvaimat. Mr. T1avenner, I have ntever held it position fit the union which required me to sign these affidavits. 
Mr. TAvFNxR. On what do you base that statement I (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred with Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. LusitzR. Mr. Tavenner I have not been. an officer of a union and my understanding of the Tah-Hartley law is only officers of unions are required to comply with that section of the law. 
Mr. WALTHR. That is right. 
Mr. TAVENNEIt. So your position is that as an organizer; you were not the type of officer or not an officer who is required to sign a TaftHatley itf(ladit. (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred with Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. LUs n. I was not required to sign a Toft-Hartley affidavit because of my position.
Mr. TAVzNNFR. Mr. Chairman, this is very close to the problem that the committee considered and made a recommendation to Congress on a year or more ago, where the Army and Navy, In construing the security, various security laws concluded that an officer of a union did not have to be cleared Nher tint union was engaged in defense contracts, where the Atomic Energy Commission, in construing the laws applicable to it, construed the law so as to require all officers of a union to be cleared.
Mr. WALTmR. But there is a difference in the language in the Atomic Energy Act. There is a difference.
Mr AVaxw. That is right.
Mr. WAvr. That is the difference.
Mr. TA wNER. That is why I am pointing the matter out. The language is different in all the acts.
Mr. Cr mY. And because you think, Mr. Tavenner, there may be some necessity for an amendment to the statuteMr. TAvwiiN. It may be just as important that an organier for a union be required to sign the Taft-Hartley affidavit as it would be for the president of a local. In fact, the organizer may have even not certain about ,mater powers than the president of the local. I am line. r.WALTER. Mr. Tavenner, the law is well understood along that
Mr. C ARDY. Your point being there may be some need for a recommendation for legislation along-that line f
Mr. TAvzN. Certainly it is a matter to be considered. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time while you were on organizer I (At this point Mr.Lusher conferred with Mr.Margolis.) Air. LusHm. Mr. Tavenner I will answer no questions of that character. I stand upon all oi the reasons previously given, includ. ing the fifth amendment to the Constitution.
Mr. TAvIz;m. Are you now a member of the Communist Partyt (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred with Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. Lusxi. Same answer.
Mr. TAvF.mm. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. JAmox. Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLARDY. I want to pursue 1 angle a little further. Are you at the moment an organizer for some union I COMMt AfrV rST S m T=N os ANONLU AsBA 597 
Mr. Lusum. I am unemployed at the moment. 
Mr. CLARDY. Since when did you cease to be an organizer fors union, if you have actually ceased#
Mr. LusEn. Today.
Mr. CLARDY. This morning? 
Mr. Lusnzia. That is right. Was that a voluntary severance?
Mr. Lusuwt. That is right, I resigned some time ago, effective as of today. (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred with Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. CLARDY. 
Mr. CLARDY. Do you expect to resume as an organizer after this hearing is over? No, I do not. What was the name of the union? (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred with Mr. Margolis.) 
Mr. LUBHE. 
Mr. CLARDY. 
Mr. LusimR. I am sorry, I didn't hear your question. I would like to say, by the way, these -hearings have had absolutely nothing to do with my resignation, which was submitted considerably in advance of these hearings, or subpenas to these hearings.
Mr. CLARDY. You are not charging us with anything in connection with that, then?
Mr. LusnER. No.
Mr. CLARDY. What was the name of the union you last served as an organizer? 
Mr. Lusi ER. I must decline to answer that question upon all the grounds I previously stated. 
Mr. CLARw. I again ask the witness be directed to answer, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. JACKSON. Not being clear in my recollection whether that direction has been given on that question, I will direct the witness.
Mr. LusHER. I must decline to answer that question on all the grounds previously stated, including the fifth amendment to$the Constitution.
Mr. CLAmY. Do I correctly understand your prior statement to be, no matter how far I may pursue that line of inquiry concerning your past connections, you will refuse to answer on the same grounds ? that will shorten this. (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred with Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. LusrnR. I am not quite sure I understand your question.
Mr. CLARDY. Maybe I didn't understand you. I understood you a moment ago to tell Mr. Tavenner you would decline to answer any further questions concerning your Communist activities or your connections as a union organizer, upon the same grounds already advanced. (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred withMr. Margolis.).
Mr. CLARDY. Now I want to discover whether you are going to continue to do that, so I may not be bothering you with further questions. (At this point Mr. Lusher conferred with Mr. Margolis.)
Mr. LuslIER. Mr. Clardy, no matter how many ways you ask me what unions I have been associated with or organizer for or member of, I will continue to refuse to answer for the reasons I have previously enumerated.
Mr. CLARDY. I thought that was what your answer was, but I wanted it clear in the record. That is all.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Scherer? 81747-58-pt. 1-12 508 hie, COMMUtNIST' M't'IV1111 IN Ttle 1,01 AN0tt11AM ARN'A Wmuiuot, No it ithittt'i. UP, A'KAN Alw~'it. N1411t-11(1110, 
Mr'. Ji ItON. NP,.I)oVe INI'., Iovim', 1Iitst. 41t141 ju14t.Iim. A.lit 1lm 4 I Ittiow olt 11t-4 11WaIlI' of h1 the eoitimttet 111 1101f 1w1(ilt.m111141 lintyutr tutfu fatttihlt'i At.ittenwit ot hni. lishe edlutudet wit Al' e. ttorgo 1 ntt iag Pieliti tutue tllIi it~ t1o41111111 V01 (t't'tlltW111te1 Nit'. tA'Ht~tt Y101 t i htg' I~w61w t idt I'thn IIIwtht im e olt to lusovInIh te. U itvit n'.iu VolAU 1111 fatillidarm wit lItit f 1eitef thu lawI Visit lonelotwit t111athatdo. 'ltr poI' 41tu w wolti, tutul I luslieve flint fihe ( ollt it Iiloit prIohibits Ihim (Cotn 11044 fu-oum ftti,(11j laws Mnrogardl to fl'4'-ttidIl *t'f4sji'i't'I, tISI't1V1, nttI(i 1114~ 'O ' lmt of thflt tneiiet Nt. INoIV'u. Of eoiltrse, ('onigm.'s h1a1s Ito nut timul'itv i)11to itlay law\ ill iolat iol (if theous mit ittiti. 1111t1. of 4'o411s,8%iOw St1ipri'4111 (Coto't. (if tho fllted 81 ales iI hi' tittuti iildg(%i'i fwe \0 01 hoitt ty Illw jmused b1,VoItgromSs Is 11114ttiti1tl n10 1ti t IJl dState14 Sitp'1nte1 ('1ttt'% has nlot snul I'libtie Law 6I0 i4litteotIst if Ittlotl 11. So wie are opermI1i hg '11he 11111pumit howvet', (if liy quest ion wits Ild1,q-I wotdideted if 'oli uli c 'LawJO 111 81 14041t1011 2, ilt Wili'hi Coetires ddared"1 11here was atworld ('oItInitIiIIst Illuweieu'tt. inlIt rat ig ill thte (Th"WIvrntnt 1itrongh 081)101111 find sutbottige alul f''rol'Imill, to ('Stll)lisliti Cominutit totutlit triatt govettttit lit the world. Are yu faillar Withi that? (At inuit Mi. Litshoet eonfet'red with Aft. irgol~is.)
Mr. IlU-tiER. Will roti toll um lte nante of flint. nott Perhtaps the utu111)Ners doll%Illeat 111chl to me1.
Mr. )mw. Hlen, is thle Sttbversiue Activt'ies Control Act. I huttid 1-on the text of it, as it it; so designated, for idmit-ifleatilon. You elan hand it to vour counsel. Ito will show yoii the number of it, aid setion '2)tho frmt paragraph thereof-. (At this point. Mr. Luuslter monferred with Mr. Mutrgqlis..) MAr. L".ium. Ves;-, anm fumiia', not lit tremendous detail, bt, 1aura familiar with that law. I believe it, Is (called the McCarran Act, if Iant not, mistaken. I think it, i.s pmrbahh3' the only Mairver passedM that is worse-than the Alien and Sedition Aet. Among other thing', as I7itnderstand, it sets uip concontrntion camps in America for the first time.
Mr. Doym Well, it doesn't do that. May I have it again, please, msr I Thie thing I wanted to know is whether or not you ore faimlidli, with the fact that your Congress, sir, in paragraph 1, declared JIM AlsoI faiii' Witlt 11h4'fo iipt~ ivF t iv1'fIollifuiu~lslif. Illov';ss'hpf, to (" uis11ll it (041,. 1111110i4f.s,Iui1es uie'fim-mbiIp III fleu worlId. Nowtv flit lit fu)0if Is1e1gissigo, cil11i I J11141, wveiledl to knioitI yoii wpi' ititiflitir ith th/ fill'I. filit $111 Cou('lgls'es14514 ''( 14#1h4Il n1111 g(. I don't s6Ilnet.ytoss toiel~s 1111 f i i Itfil 1 of fill 0se,515A offfl eit'l, (1A1- 11h114 IJOI hI. Nll'. I 4114li14' lW11f'e1s' Is M. 141f ii goli4.) All I'It i 11 I kilow~ if. lW-'#'l1tSiq yoUl j114 fold IlFill ~u; Y1.14. Nh'. 111011-1,. 8t11hseIou' I (fil 1111 lint ol 111111111 kilowsi 1114111,r 1 Jss14t, Wild11 for 1141 111511 $,il w~ ful fssilifilii wVilli flit-'mfllit5 ytour O$%'1 ( 'oigs'';~sluiul ui"'I 111'ss 1 fii lls Ia vos'1d ( finuselnl 1u51ngi) 'sey (1xiIllf4A, Now,. thi i5'imfs I siiii I lmlsI I (toll. I issf voi 4t5 o Iti'f k to'i, 1.11 wuly,-( %U il ifi fusiil. Ni r. L118aii1-1. efoss fri''Ivi isl Mr'. Ntin5'goit.) NlI-s. I )sy5.m, I will mill, use1f ii 3'5get fslomigh "'sed, s'g4s vots will your Ni 5'. lwomict i 1%45 A 1ss.vosI, l seN ' I)ll NIPs',I )i-ss1, 1'o. '1 J1141. HisId 1111e1,tIN. of flt 111 will (fil fldiot kntow thil ~ vomei Ilbi~ssllsf ', (ld 011li1,01-A4 lua1u 1111111(1 01 lus *dP1lusI'lf11011 iii-vomi , i ri-ii. fist it ys5isi vol Iknowni limt , -ynoufldtl iislvs .404 114.#youl ill ~, 11s111 waoll;e s1los vii'l s'Xia''. wo'tfe(I 9I efois', wvlisff., hall 1s sui siy wily.''1 c'I'l 111 flak(l l$15'44u ianIrsi 1111illm I Iliiiik fl1i11 if-1ill, NI r. I" l~ii,.NIS #jili 1fi5154. NIh N',sie' Ai'. AIl'. N1111,111,11s. I WH ul ft W541Vofi~11111f ums, 1os, iptir wllI sigisHii ( to ogi?.lizi i I 11liui'i'i' oir I loe In1twr liesi' o Itiv61 ifsis. ip' il,.1 J(imlS oi'jzes1si'l,' tilli1114. Nil'. It'iii.i1115(1fuiles Nit'. Nloin 15.ol. "Iuil't if I li liii Ali. ''fisfu Iclsbo, 11mW4 If) WVlifI 'yI1i I I 11 tiiIIhesy 111m. Im rsiglf ,i vwlity)k. Ie sI.55:1. Iil'v(' If( fl's' e kflo I'( e lgls.eI 0'j''i NI,'. 111111',(11-3. '111- il-t e 1 rf e vogni'H Nli. i'I'vmNls'. I oitill il 11ii'a l.Al- tt' orp01114?il s 1114-1 All'. JACK'hSON. MIas' reslasui whly fh il~~if- 8611'11 oIui ot 114. (-X(.11441. Ai'.r'i'V5. No, Sir1. Next Iviti('14. Afi1'. JAI.uON. l~eisme j'ohr right huatd, Sir. Do mio5(olemnay 111111 Cho tesl ifflohy yot tire sotit. to give. will be thie truth, lien trout id11iotsig bilt tlip trosth, so help you G'od ? Nil'. MfAINIW. 1(10.
Mr. ,JMAI$ON. IPrex'eed, swear whole itac. TESTIMONY or DN MADDOW, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, 3. B. TIETZ
Mr'. 'I'"AV5NNER. Whot I.9 your name, please. sir? Mlr. Ammoi. Beni Middow.
Mr,. 'sx~m ;k re 1#01 aIccomp~anied ky counsel I Air. Aanliw. Yes; film. 6OO COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TtS LOS ANOLES AICA 
Mr. TAVEND, Will counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. Twrz. Tietx. % I didn't met the first name.
Mr. ga
Mr. Tmr. J. B. are t~o Initials. Los Angeles.
Mr. JAoxoN. Would you spell your name, sirI
Mr. MAwow. M-a-d-o-w. 
Mr. TAvwmxrx. When and where were you born Mr. Maddow I
Mr. MADDOW. I was born in Passaic N. J., in 1901.
Mr. TAvUNIM Where do you reside
Mr. MADDow. I reside in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAvsw'NE What is your occupation
Mr. MADoow. I am a writer.
Mr. TAvummrma. Would you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been?
Mr. MADrow. Well, after grammar and high school in my home town, I attended Columbia University for 4 years.
Mr. TAvNNER. When did you complete your training at Columbia University I
Mr. MADDOW. In 1930.
Mr. TAVENNE. What?
Mr. M"Dow. 1980. How have you been employed since that time, since
Mr. TAVENErx. 1980,J mean in a general way? Just describe it in a general way.
Mr. MADDOW. I was unemployed for about 2 years from 1930 to about 1932, and then the following 3 years I spent as an orderly in a hospital in New York. Te 3 years following I spent as an employee of the Emergency Relief Bureau in New York iy.
Mr. TAvENE. When did you come to California?
Mr. MADDOW. I think the first time I saw California was from a troop train, but I was employed hereMr.TAvEiNm. Proceed and tell us how you were employed in New York before you came to California.
Mr. MADDow. I think I left my employment in the Emergency Re- lief Bureau in about 1938, world be my estimate, and between that time and my entry into the Army I was a free-lance writer and did a considerable amount of work in industrial and documentary films, small films.
Mr. TAVEmNE. And when did you come to California for the purpose of resuming your work as a writer?
Mr. MADDOW. Upon my discharge from the Army, which was in October of 1945.
Mr. TAvENxxn. How have you practiced your profession since that date, in what way ? As a free-lance writer or screen writer or what?
Mr. MArow. i have been a screen writer during the major portion of that time.
Mr. TAv NNR. What have been some of your principal screen credits?
Mr. MADDow. To go back to the earliest one, I worked for Columbia Pictures. I wrote a film called Framed, I think was the name of it, if I remember correctly The second film in which I had a credit, I think it was a split credit, was A Man From Colorado, a Western. COMMUMST AOTI P9s IN THE wS ANOaLES AREA 601 Two subsequent films were Intruder In the Dust, and a split credit on Asphal t Jungle. ehlowin this I did two screenplays for Columbia again. On neither of tse screenplays, however, do I have credit at present, so it is probably pointless to mention it.
Mr. TAvENNEz.
Mr. Maddow, you know, I suppose, that the committee has been engaged for some time in an investigation of the Communist infiltration Into the amusement field, with special emphasis upon the moving pictures, for the purpose of determining what the real objectives of the Communist Party have been in that field, and what they have accomplished, including the extent of infiltration and their methods of operation, and we trust that you will give this committee the benefit of any knowledge that you have on that subject.
Mr. MADDOW. I don't understand. Is that a question, Mr. TavennerI
Mr. TAvYNNER. I am asking you now for your cooperation In telling the committee all you know about the operations of the Communist Party in this area if you have any knowledge of it. Would you do soI
Mr. MADDOW. If 7ou will address to me a specific question, I will endeavor to answer it.
Mr. TAvENNER. I was afraid of that. In the course of our investiation, sworn testimony was taken on March 12, 1953, of Pauline wanson Townsend, and she admitted her former Communist Party membership, explained the circumstances under which she left the party, an during her testimony regarding the operations of the party as she observed it, the following questions and answers occurred:
Mr. WnEiLE.m Will you Identify the Individuals that you met as Communists, in the first group? That was the first group of the Communist Party to which she herself had been assigned.
Mrs. ToWNSEND. Ben and Norma Barzman, Jay and Sondra Gorney, Pauline Lauber Finn, Ring Lardner, Alice Hunter, Bill Pomerance, Meta Rels, Richard Collins, Lewis ' Allen, Ben Bengal, John Weber.
Mr. WaLzim. How long were you In the first group, Mrs. Townsend?
Mrs. TOwIsInn. A year and a halt.
Mr. WHEELEn. Did you hold any office In this group?
Mrs. To'wrsmz. At one time I was chairman. Also, I recall Ben Maddow. Now, was she correct in identifying you as one of that group of the Communist Party of which she was a memberI (At this point Mr. Maddow conferred with Mr. Tietz.)
Mr. MADDOW. Mr. Tavenner, I will decline to answer that question on the rights and privileges afforded me both by the first amendment and by the fifth.
Mr. TAvEiJNE. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Pary?
Mr. MADDOW. I will decline to answer that on the grounds previously cited.
Mr. TAvENNE.. I have no further questions.
Mr. JAcKSON. Mr. Clardy?
Mr. CiLuwY. No. questions.
Mr. JACKSON;. Mr. Walters I
Mr. WALT=R. No questions. I Name of Louis Allen on pages 427 and 428, same title, pt. 1, should be Lewis Allen. 002 COMMUNISTS ACTIVITIEB IN T11i0 US ANUILI ARIIA M{r, JA0004oN, Mr. Solherer' t Ate. 9t0nmity, 96lloatilms,
Mr. JA oMI4O,Mr, Mouldort No nlilt-lo,h. )oyleI
Mr. Doymmq, No questlolls.
Mr. JAOlMSON. Mfr, Frazier I
Mr. INA,-ImR, No quetmios.
Mr. ROiA., nr,XAUNNON, Mr. 
Mr. Jmsm Aiiy AN rmson why the witness should :ot. bhexcimldl slr. Mt. JAUKOlON. 'T1e wittleSS 114 Oeusd.
Mr. TAV1PNNIII, No, 
Mr. JAtMRON. Who ii YOi' lleXt wiit-M, Mi'. (CoUtll tt dloetli ot desire t Tkv%-NNV. Mr. 3011 l)s LO8n 0IMu is her, hbe teoeo'ism(l 01' te.stify whlile the Hollild efil113)iilt, is oil. lie is wilting 
Mr. to stahl that baek out of vitmv of the tolovisioti eanteaas. been ilmtilitid 14 a wittess, Mir. ifMftsON. After Air. 14)oselieii homi 1 will ho gladt to )tenrll his1 request. Air. A10001-19. Will YOU1 till'I off the telOVisionl C111111-11 WliilO YOU quality him?
Mr'. 4,%eK5k, I will Ilot.
Mr.hNIAIomls, Air, 4Ol Imshil'1it aIkId Willitag tO 5tt 1168 J)OHltiOll fronti his position tllre. lIN is jIot' willing to Vouteo before tile televisili Vaimras. (At. til, point i. *liteksoti eoiforred with the other nellt)1rs of (t. Comititee.) tewtesri'oth ~ht o h f ie rlif Ro
Mr. (lie0~ %Isies peslilt. inile will y-ou exjprt%.i your requtestl Mtr. Li u'sc-micN.I request tt the television camiiersMir. ('z~mmy. Will %,(ill spea'tk louder, plealso?
Mr. IAltmos. wVill Yon wait a milute until thtey fillish with th11 pie(ture., pletux f Mir. CL~Iiwr. Yes.
Mr11. JACKSON. Will (te Witness now Illike his request? request, that the television anud mound be cut off Mir. I)siN.I dturinlg my13 test imny, Air. J~vemooN. Youa' suibpenil ill be continued until Monday, April 6, iii executive session. Air. TAvENNIR. 
Mr. Chairman you will recall that the witness Chtarles Albert Page made an obJecaion to the use of television this morning and was diet to return at 4 o'clock. 1 do not know whethler youl want to cont inuec to hear htim or' whether yout desire to have his matter go over, likewise.
Mr. JACXso%'. T'i at sobimna should also boextetCld unttil Mon day, April 6, and I believe that Are have one additional witness who several days ago made, tile request. not to be televised. Was there an additional witness?
Mr. TAvE'%NEra Yes but that witness wats heard.
Mr. JACKSON. Mir. 6 liver was heardV
Mr. 'rA1ExB. No; Mr. Oliver was not heard.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, Mir. Oliver's suibiena, should also be extended. If there is a passion for anonymity, it should extend equally to all of the meditt of public information, and tite committee will make appro- (COMMt)NIM'' ACVIT'I'I'I IN TIM, IM ANORLI.KH ARtKA (03 fprittte, prom teletitse tlJolt ioneltisiott of theo executive heatrinigs, so fill of thomi whio have etnteredl objectioti heretofore to television will be set ovet' mitil hiondov, April is,itt eXetitive sossion. Witer left life clearing room fit this 1 llejttemitttitivtt I'atarise. pont0 ., 68 1)N~.11)A'l. (hiaainu , there were several other witnesses sflted tot' t1hs afternloonl, bilt I knew of Clhe circumstances under which their ittoriney wits to be oilt, of the( c'hy, etttd to haukve compelled them lo aIa'itt'I wotdd( hliave Ieit to ha1ve comtpelledl themn to appear without 0l~1 la'ne it of the cooutsi'l of their chou'e, find( I took the, liberty of extetiding titeati over unltil Monidayt thinking we wouldn't reach them, attI'w-iti' t1hs atftea'IHMla
Mr. ('aI.cunv InI idditiott to the executive session, I think everyone A~totiid know tlB'r( Wvill hx e ent8siott oil thie other witnesses onl Mfonday, aIso, mlitiltanevoaaly. All'. ,)ACKNON. IhIet' Will be It regulate' messioti of the committee hero oil Mfondfly next. Mir. Mliof-nIf. D~ay ittelr tomlor-row. 1lord owever, thot exemitive sess1ioll will 5otet. li-. ,JoK$I)N. 'Ilith beoon A pril (1,which isia wee-k front thiscoi'otg Mlondity. The situatioti at thfe moment. is that there are no further witnesses to he(lteard fit this tillue? hil'. 'lAVENNII. 'I'lutt is' correct,. All'. J1ACKSUON. 'fTl conaututtee0 thenl will ait this time reces until' Mony. 9t:3 itl on 11p. Ill., the hearing wa11 r'ecessed 1nitil 9: 30 a. in. (Whiex'eupont fit. Monldaly MA111ch 30,$ )r41.) INDEX INDIVIDUALS Page Adams, Charlotte Darling --------------------------- 470,471-478 (testimony) 576 Adams, Joe -------------------------------------------------------577 Adams, Mary Jane ------------------------------------------------582 ----------------------------------------"Allen" (alias for Stone) 519 -------------------------------Allen, Dr. (president, UCLA) 439,601 ---------------------------------------Allen, Lewis 579 -------------------------------------------Allen, Paul 569,577, 578 -----------------------------------Alpert, Hymie 569,570 --------------------------------------------Alzar 518 Anderson, Joe, (Communist Party name for LeRoy Travers Herndon) 577 ------------------------------------------Anhattzer, Arthur --------------------------------------- 577 Anhattzer, Dorothy 569 ------------------------------------------Anthony, Iva 569 -------------------------------------------Anthony, Vern 510,511 --------------------------------------Ashe, Harold 575, 588 Baron, Lillian -----------------------------------------471 -----------------------------------Barron, Ann Morgan 601 Barzman, Ben ----------------------------------------------601 Barzman, Norma --------------------------------------------Beck, George ----------------------------------------------440,442 516,539 Becker, Zara ----------------------------------------------Bengal, Ben ---------------601 525 Bernback, Arthur -------------------------------------------525 Bernbach Fred ----------------------------------------------579 Bernstein, Sanford ----------------------------------------- 519, 520 ----------------------------------------------Bevis, Dr 472-474 Biberman, Ed ----------------------------------------------576 Bindle , Mary ---------------------------------------------570,577 Bomsee, Allan ---------------------------------------------570, 577 Bomse, Edith ----------------------------------------------Bookshin, Nat ---------------------------------------------570 575 Boyagian, Anita (Chatinover) ------------------------------570 579 Brooks, Lawn ----------------------------------------------Browder, Earl ------------------------------------------ 448,449,580 579 Browne, Gus -------------------------------------------Brodsky, Joe------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------Browne, Marsha Abe ------------------------------------------Burrows, Byrne, Norman ------------------------------------------- 451579 509,512,516,539,586 -------------------------------------Callender, Jane 576 Campbell, Harry --------------------------------------516, Carey, Honore ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Carr, Joe --------------------------------------------Carson, Carson, Charles Robert T-----------------------------------------Chaplin, Charles-----------------------------------------Chassen, Jack -------------------------------------------Chassen, Miriam (Mrs. Jack Chassen)----------------------Chatinover (see also Anita Boyagian) ------------------------------Clark, Maurice ---------------------------------------------------------- 579 539 576 588 591 502 569 569 575 451 606 INDEX Page Collins, Richard ------------------------------------------------------ 601 463 Cooper, Gary ---------------------------------------------------------Dare, Danny ----------------------------------------------------------469 ----------------------519, 520 Darling, Byron -----------------------577, 580 Dawson, Ernest Dawson, Sadie (Mrs. Ernest Dawson)--------------------------------- 577 DeMille, Mr ---------------463 570 Dicho, John ----------------------------------------------------------570 ----------------Dimsdale, Harold 570 Doherty, John --------------------------------------------------------Downs, Tommy ---------------------------------------------------------- 570 -----------------476 Drdlik, Frank -----------------570 Dreyfus, Rose -----------------------448, 580 Duclos Hills, Charles (name changed to Charles Stone) ---------------------- 568 Hills, Shirley (Mrs. Charles Ellis) --------------------------------- 568 Emer, Fanny --------------------------------------------------------- 569 EMer, Frank --------------------------------------------------------- 569 ----------------------569,580 Englehardt, Jack Esterman, William B -------------------------------------- 461,470, 541-556 601 ------------------------------------Finn, Pauline Lauber 576 Fisher, Ed --------------------------------------------576 -----------------------------------------Fisher, Mrs. Ed 472,473 Fleury, Bernyce Pollfka -------------------------------------------505-507, 580 Foster, William Z ------------------------------------------570, 591 Frank, Michael --------------------------------------507,522 Frank, Richard ----------------------------------------502 ----------------------------------------Freeman, Sidney 580 Freud, Mr ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 570 Geyer, Jacob (Jack) ---------------------------------------------- 577 Freud, Rosalind 570 -----------------------------------------Freund, Burton 585, 586 496, 526, -------------------------------Gammon, Robert Gammon, Robert Frank ---------------------------------------------526 496 ----------------------------------------Ganahl, Herbert 570 ------------------------------------------Garber, Dora 567 ------------------------------------------Gerber, Lillian 567 ------------------------------------------Gerber, Serill 579 Gervin, Nathan -----------------------------------------577 JacobGeyer)---------------------------------Geyer, Sara (Mrs. 477 -------------------------------------------Gilbert, Ed 465 --------------------------------------------Gilbert, Jo 461-469 (testimony) Gilbert, Jody -------------------------------570 ------------------------------------------Gilder, Harry 568, 580 Gladstone, Charles (see also Joe Young) --------------------------Glenn, Elizabeth (see also Elizabeth Leech Glenn; Elilzabeth Leech) ---- 442 Glenn, Elizabeth Leech (see also Elizabeth Glenn; Elilzabeth Leech)----444,447 498 -----------------------------------------------Gold, L 569,577 --------------------------------------Goldstein, Mary 451,601 ----------------------------------------Gorney, Jay 601 ----------------------------Gorney, Sondra (Mrs. Jay Gorney) 579 ----------------------------------------Handman, Nina 512,516,539 -----------------------------------Hay, Marjorie 454-456 ---------------------------------------Heist, A. A 499-526 (testimony), Herndon, LeRoy Travers, Jr -------------------------529-531, 534, 537, 539, 540, 542, 554, 589 569 Heron, Lillian -----------------------------------------569,578 Hershey, Fdith --------------------------------------570,577 ------------------------------------------Hirsch, B 569 -----------------------------------------Holts, Doreen 570, 558,589 --------------------------------------Horn, Sam ---------------------- 511,512,554 Howe, Jane (see also Anne Kinney) 568 -----------------------------------------Hudson, Henry 601 ------------------------------------------Hunter, Alice 576 ---------------------------------------Isaacman, Morris Jacobson, Ell ------------------------------------------475 607 INDEX James, Dan ---------------------------------------------------James, Lllith(Mrs. Dan James) Jarrico, Paul------------------------------------------------- Johnson, Evn Page 449, 451 -----------451 488, 492,493 -----------585 Johnston, Edith -----------------568 Jones, Lewis Webster ------------------------------------------ 518,519 Judis, Harry -------------------------------------------------- 570 Judis, Minnie ------------------------------------------------570 Kalish, Sam --------------------------------------------------515, 540 Karson, Bobbie -----------------------------------------------579 Karson, -------------------Charles 579, 589 Karson, Ethel -------------579 Karson, Morris ("Red") -------------579 Kntz, Charles J ----------------------------------------------497, 586 Kelleher, June (Kay) ------------------------------------------ 577 Kelly, Jane Dawson -----------------------------------------577 Kelly, Mary --------------------------------------------------- 441 Kenny, Robert W -----------------------------------------------470, 587-591 Kinney, Anne (see also Jane Howe) ----------------------------- 511,539,554 Kline, Joe -------------------------------------------------567 Kline, Rose --------------------------------------------562,567 Kolker, Rose ----------------------------------------------496 Kusnltz, Sara -------------------------------------- 568, 571,578,580 Landall,Edith ---------------------------------------------577 Landis, Caroie ----------------------------------------------443 Lang, David ---------------------------------------------------525 Lardner, Ring ---------------------------------------------601 Lawson. John Howard ---------------------------------------451 Lazar, Jack ------------------------------------------------569 Lazarus, Simon ---------------------- 478-498 (testimony), 526, 585, 586 Leech, Elizabeth (see also Elizabeth Glenn:Elizabeth Leech Glenn)--- 442 Lewis, Al -------------------------------------------------- 539 Lewis, Matilda -----------------------------------------516, 530 Lewis, Richaird Byrd--------503, 509, 512, 516, 526-541 (testimony), 542, 554 Light, Louise --------------------------------------------554 Looschen. John ----------------------------------------------------601 Lorre. Ed --------------------------------------------------------443 Luekenberg, Rosie --------------------------------------------------446 Lusher, Bernard ---------------------------------590, 591-599 (testimony) Lyndon, Barre ---------------------------------------------451 Lytton, Bart -----------------------------------------440-461 (testimony) McClosky,Joe -----------------------------------------------------576 MCDonald. Florence ------------------------------------------------575 McKenzie. Fay ----------------------------------------------------443 Maeln, Flith -----------------------------------558-589 (testimony), 591 Maddow, Ben ----------------------------------------599-601 (testimony) Malloy, Rose ------------------------------------------------------575 Malloy, Sophia ----------------------------------------------------575 Mann ----------------------------------------------------580 Margolis, Ben -------------------------------------------478-498, 590-99 Marshall, Daniel G--------------------------------------461-469, 541-556 Mazer, Herman -----------------------------------------------------576 Merritt, Max J----------------------------------------------469 Minkus, Abe (Abraham) -------------------- 516, 539 541-556 (testimony) Minkus, Libby ---------------------------------------------516 Mitty, Mrs -------------------------------------------------568 Moflitt, Robert A --------------------------------------------440 More, Sam -------------------------------------------------------447 Morgan, Ann -------------------------------------------449, 450 Morgan, Anne (see also Mrs. Charles E. Morgan) --------------------- 583 Morgan, Ann Roth ------------------------------------------450 Morgan, Mrs. Charles H. (see also Anne Morgan) ---------------------584 Moskln, Frank ---------------------------------------------579 Myer, Irving -----------------------------------------------576 Narelsenfeld, Harvey -------------------------------------------- 446 Nicol, Edda (party name for Edith Macia) -------------------- 559,560, 562 608 INDEX Page Nidless, Bernie ---------------------------------------------------------- 569 Norman, Billie ----------------------------------------------------------- 568 Norman,Numovna, Barry ------------------------------------------------------------ 56 Barta -------------------------------------------------------516, 539 Oleksink, Steve ----------------------------------------------------------- 570 Oleksink, Tille ----------------------------------------------------------- 570 Oliver, WilliamE -------------------------------------------------469, 470, 601 O'Neal, John --------------------------------------------------------------57 O'Neal, Mrs. John ---------------------------------------------------------- 576 O'Neil, John P ------------------------------------------------------------585 Oster, Morris ------------------------------------------------------569, 570, 575 Oster, Nina -----------------------------------------------------------575 Ostley, Harold J -------------------------------------------------------575 Page, Charles Albert -------------------------------------470, 587-589 (apperance),60 Pate, Bob ---------------------------------------------------------------- 567 Pate, Helen ---------------------------------------------------------567 Perlman, Git -------------------------------------------------------------569 Perlman, Holly ------------------------------------------------------ 569 Perlman, Maurlee ------------------------------------------------------- 569 Perlman, Norman -------------------------------------------------------- 569 Polast, Mr ------------------------------------------------------------- 569 Pomerance, Bill -------------------------------------------------------- 601 Posell, Rose ----------------------------------------------------------- 509, 530 Praeger, Stanley------------------------------------------------------451,453 Pratt, Horance --------------------------------------------------------- 568 ------------------------------------------------------------Ida Pratt, 568 Patman, Fred ---------------------------------------------------------567,577 Riechman, Charles ----------------------------------------------------569 Richards, Ann Roth Morgan (Ann Roth Morgan) --------------------------459 Richards, Silvia -----------------------------------------------------439 Roberts, Holland -----------------------------------------------------512 Robinson, Bob--------------------------------------------------------579 Robinson, Marjorle ----------------------------------------------------- 579 Robson, Willam N ---------------------------------------------------584,595 Bohr, Joe ----------------------------------------------------------- 568,580 Rohr, Myrtle -------------------------------------------------------- 568 Roman, Seargent ------------------------------------------------------ 575 Roosevelt, Franklin D.,Jr ---------------------------------------448 Rubin, Mary ------------------------------------------------- 568,577, 578 Rubin, Sam------------------------------------------------------568,577, 578 Rudimon, Sara -----------------------------------------------------570 Salit, Fran ------------------------------------------------------569, 577 Salit, Sophia --------------------------------------------------- 569, 577 Samuels, helen ----------------------------------------------------- 563 Schniedermann, W ---------------------------------------------------- 560 Schwartz, Harry -------------------------------------------------- 570 Schwartz, Ned ------------------------------------------------------570 Scott, Adrian ------------------------------------------------------- 451 Sharf, Dave --------------------------------------------------------- 569,577 Shart, Rose --------------------------------------------------------- 569,577 Shepro, Anna ------------------------------------------------------ 510,516,539 Shepro, Harry -----------------------------------------------509, 510, 516, 539 Sherry, Rose -------------------------------------------------------569 Shul-----------------------------------------------------------------496 Silver, Max------------------------------------------------------553,554 Sims, Kathleen --------------------------------------------------- 488,489,492,496 Smith, Charles Jr. -----------------------------------------------588 Spivak, Freda -----------------------------------------------569, 577 Sproul, Dr. ---------------------------------------------------519 Steinmets, Harry C. ----------------------541, 589-591 (appearance) Stice, Cliff --------------------------------------------576 Stone (alias Allen) -----------------------------------582, 588 Stone, Charles (alas for Charles Ellis) ----------------------- 568, 580 Sun Yat-sen -------------------------------------------476 Thomas, Walter S .---------------------------------------589 INDEX 609 PAGE Tiets, J. D ----------------------------------------------------------599-601 Townsend, ------Leo 452 Townsend, PaulineSwanson --------------------------------------------452, 601 Trachgin, Friedn--------------------------------------------------------- 569 Trivers, Barry -------------------------------------------------------469,470 Trivers, -----------------Paul 469, 470 Wallace, Henry A -----------------------------------------------------458,586 Wallace, Jane ----------------------------------------------------------506 Warren, Lacey ---------------------------------------------------------569 Wayne, John ------------------------------------------------------------463 Weher, John ------------------------------------------------------------601 Well, Robert-----------------------------------------------------------584, 585 Welnbaum, Sidney -----------521 Weisman, ----------------Steven 440-461 Wellmno Ruth H.----------------------------------------------------------575 Wexley, John ------------------------------------------------------------450 White, Ann --------------------------------------------------------------568 Wiena, Lena -------------------------------------------------------------575 Wilson, Jane -------------------------------------------------------------5 Witkowski, Anne ---------------------------------------------------------570 Witkowski, Bert---------------------------------------------------------570 wolf, Hilton ------------------------------------------------------------569 Young, Joe --------------------------------------------------------------568 Young, Sandra ------------------------------------------------------56 ORGANIZATIONS Abraham Lincoln Battalion ------------------------------------ 513 AbraHam Lincoln Brigade ------------------------------------------568 AMerican Association of University Professors ----------------------- 507 American Federation of Labor -----------------------------------589, 594 AMerican Federation of Teachers ----------------------------507,580 American Federatoin of Teachers, Local430 ------------------------- 504 American Federation of Teachers, local 1021 ----------------------- 589 American Jewish League Against Communism ------------------------469 American League Against War and Fascism-------------------------513 American League for Peace and Democracy -------------------------513 Artists Front To Win the War---------------------------------- 585 Atomic Energy Commission --------------------------------------596 Bank of America, Tarzna -------------------------------------492 Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association------------- 488 Brown Derby ------------------------------------------------451 Cal-det Knitting Mill ----------------------------------------472 California State Commission on School Districts ---------------------526 Caltech ------------------------------------------------- 517, 521 Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms -----------------454 City College of Los Angeles ------------------------------------509 Columbia Pictures------------------------------------------------- 600, 601 Columbia University ---------------------------------------------600 Conference of Studio Unions ----------------------------------------449 Congress of Industrial Organizations ------------------------------488, 594 Contemporary Theater --------------------------------474, 475 Crane Junior College, Chicago -------------------------------542 Dawson Bookstore --------------------------------------581 Department of State --------------------------------------- 538, 539 Ed Fox Productions ------------------------------------------472 Emergency Relief Bureau, New York City --------------------------- 600 Federal Bureau of Investigation -------------- 451, 459,559, 574, 575,581, 585 Ford Motor Company ------------------------------------------500 Friends of the Soviet Union -----------------------------------513 Glendale College ------------------------------- 500, 503, 509, 521, 527 Hamper Union High School -----------------------------------526 Harvard University ---------------------------------------- 519, 566 Hollywood High School ---------------------------------------- 471 Hollywood Police Department -------------------------------466 610 INDEX Hollywood Professionalsectoinof the Commiunist Party of the United States ----------------------------------------------------------- Page 502,514 Hollywood 443 Rosev -H Hollywood Writer's Mobilisation -------------------------------------lndependent Productoins Corporation--470, 482, 480, 489, 492, 495-497, 588, International Union of Mine, Milland Smelter Workers ---------- 486-491, Jefferson Club of the Communist Party-------------------------------572, Leon Schlesiager Productions -------------------------------------Library of Congress------------------------------------------------- 577 472, 476 590 LosAngeles Board of education --------------------------------LosAngeles Junior College -----------------------------------------Los Angeles Teachers' Union --------------------------------------LosAngeles Teachers Union, Local 1021--------------------------------589 443 580 494 544 471 543 Metro Goldwyn-Mayer ----------------------------------------------592 Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers Union. (See Internationl Union of Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers.) Moscow Trials --------------------------------------------------------513 National Educatoin Associaton ---------------------------------------507 Ohio state University ------------------------------------------------ 519 Crest Union high School ---------------------------------------------- 500 Princeton Film Center-----------------------------------------------444 Progressive Book Store ----------------------------------------------595 Radio Writers Guild ------------------------------------------------447 RKO ------------------------------------------------------------------451 Rockefeller Foundation------------------------------------------------444 Roosevelt High 'School -----------------------------------------------University Rutgers, ---------------------------------------Sacramento Junior College -------------------------------------------San Jose State College 509 518, 519, 523, 524 500 ------------------------------------------------ 526 Screen Office Employees' Guild--------------------------------------- 593,595 443, 446, 449, 462 Screen Writers' Guild ------------------------------------Spars Roebuck ------------------------------------------------------570 Smith College ----------------------------------------------------523 Stanford University -------------------------------499,500,512,519,526,527 State Federation of Teachers ---------------------------------------529 Supreme Court ---------------------------------------------545, 546 Supreme Court of the State of California-------------------------- 498 Supreme Court of the United States -----------------------------548,598 Taft-Hartley --------------------------------------------------595,596 Teachers' Union -------------------------------- 504,508-512,527,531,546,548,550,589 Teacher's Union, Local 430 ------------------------------508,510,549,554 Temple University --------------------------------------------------519 Theater Collective -------------------------------------------------451 Thirtieth street Club ofthe Communist Party ------------------------580 Twentieth Centry-Fox ----------------------------------------------453 Union Bank -------------------------------------------------------495 United Office and Professionl Workers of American------------------594, 595 United States Air Force --------------------------------------------519 United States Army ------------------------------------------592,596,600 United States Circuit Court of Appeals -------------------------------590 United States Navy --------------------------------------------527,533,596 University of Arizona -----------------------------------------------558 University of California --------------------------------------------519 University of California at Los Angeles ------------------------519,542,592 University of New Mexico ------------------------------------------599 University of Southern California -----------------------------500, 568, 579 USO ------------------------------------------------------ 443 Voice of America ----------------------------------------------------459 West Adams Club of the Communist Party -----------------561, 571, 572, 580 West Adams Womion's Club ------------------------------572,573,575, 578 Young Communist leaguee --------------------------------------507, 522 INDEX 611 PUBLICATIONS PAGE Clnehmati Enquirer ----------------------------------------------------- 519 The Communist---------------------------------------------------------507,522 Daily Worker------------------------------------------------------------565 Hollywood ----------------------------------------------Citizen-News 487 Los-----------------------------------------Angeles Harold Express 467 New Masses -------------------------------------------------------518 Now Theater Magazine -------------------------------------------------475 People's World ---------------------------------------------------513,568 Political Affairs -----------------------------------------------------565 The School and the People's -----------------------------------Front Toward Soviet America -----------------------------------------------The Worker --------------------------------------------------------- 0 507, 522 506,507 565 