Mr. ROBINSON. Edward G. Robinson.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand, Mr. Robinson, that this morning you requested of the committee that you be permitted to appear before it?
Mr. ROBINSON. That is quite right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And that privilege was granted you?
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee your purpose in desiring to appear before the committee at this time?
Mr. ROBINSON. I have just finished my season with Darkness at Noon, Monday night in West Virginia, and I had come to Washington on a personal matter. I hoped that I would have the opportunity of appearing before your committee, so that I could give you an idea of just what my feelings and my thoughts are in this matter since the revelations that have been made during 1951 and 1952 by your committee. I have prepared a written statement, and I should like to read it to you. 2415 2416 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY My voice is a little hoarse-I have had a very arduous part for a long time. If you will permit me to read this statementMr. WALTER. You may proceed, sir.
Mr. RoBINSoN. Thank you, sir.
Mr. Chairman and members of the committee, as on previous occasions, I have asked for this opportunity to appear before you so as to make unmistakably clear my feeling about communism and Communists. As on previous occasions when I have appeared, I desire to repeat under oath a denial that I am or ever have been a Communist or knowingly a fellow traveler. I have always been a liberal Democrat. The revelations that persons whom I thought were sincere liberals were, in fact, Communists, has shocked me more than I can tell you. That they persuaded me by lies and concealment of their real purposes to allow them to use my name for what I believed to be a worthy cause is now obvious. I was sincere. They were not. I bitterly resent their false assertions of liberalism and honesty through which they imposed upon me and exploited my sincere desire to help my fellowmen. Not one of the Communists who sought my help or requested permission to use my name ever told me that lie or she was a member of the Communist Party. My suspicions, which should have been aroused, were allayed by the fact that I had been falsely accused of Communist sympathies, and I was, therefore, willing to believe that other accused persons were also being unfairly smeared. My conscience is clear. My loyalty to this Nation I know to be absolute. No one has ever been willing to confront me under oath free from immunity and unequivocably charge me with membership in the Communist Party or any other subversive organization. No one can honestly do so. I now realize that some organizations which I permitted to use my name were, in fact, Communist fronts. But their ostensible purposes were good, and it was for such purposes that I allowed use of my name and even made numerous financial contributions. The hidden purposes of the Communists, in such groups, was not known to me. Had I known the truth, I would not have associated with such persons, although I would have and intend to continue to nel l ) to the extent of my ability in worth-while causes, honestly calculated to help underprivileged or oppressed people, including those oppressed by Communist tyranny. The committee will, I am sure, appreciate the fact that I have been active in groups opposed to the Communists. For instance, my memory was recently refreshed concerning the support I gave the William Allen White Committee to aid the Allies at a time when Hitler and Stalin sympathizers were using the slogan "The Yanks are not coming." I was at that time urging aid for Great Britain, which was fighting the Communist-Nazi alliance. My stand was definitely contrary to the stand of the Communists. I have helped other anti-Communist causes, but this has somehow been lost sight of by those who seem intent upon trying to make me out a Communist, in spite of my repeated denials under oath of myv Communist sympathies. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2417 May I add that of the very many civic, cultural, philanthropic, and political organizations of which I have been a member and a contributor, but a small percentage I later discovered were tinged with the taint of communism. It is a serious matter to have one's loyalty questioned. Life is less dear to me than my loyalty to democracy and the United States. I ask favors of no one. All I ask is that the record be kept straight and that I be permitted to live free of false charges. I readily concede that I have been used, and that I have been mistaken regarding certain associations which I regret, but I have not been disloyal or dishonest. I would like to find some way to put at rest the ever-recurring innuendoes concerning my loyalty. Surely there must be some way for a person falsely accused of disloyalty to clear his name once and for all. It is for this purpose that I come again voluntarily before this committee to testify under oath. What more can I do? Anyone who understands the history of the political activity in Hollywood will appreciate the fact that innocent, sincere persons were used by the Communists to whom honesty and sincerity are as foreign as the Soviet Union is to America. I was duped and used. I was lied to. But, I repeat, I acted from good motives, and I have never knowingly aided Communists or any Communist cause. I wish to thank the committee for this opportunity to appear and clarify my position. I have been slow to realize that persons I thought sincere were Communists. I am glad, for the sake of myself and the Nation, that they have been exposed by your committee While you have been exposing Communists, I have been fighting them and their ideology in my own way. I just finished appearing in close to 250 performances of Darkness at Noon all over the country. It is, perhaps, the strongest indictment of communism ever presented. I am sure it had a profound and lasting effect on all who saw it. Allow me to again thank you for permitting me to appear before this committee to frankly express my views.
Mr. W.LTER. Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNFR. Mr. Chairman, I think that inasmuch as Mr. Robinson is here at this time I should ask him whether he recalls the testimony of Mr. Dmytryk regarding a meeting which took place in his home.
Mr. RoBINsoN. In my home?
Mr. TAVENNER. At which time the witness was said not to have been present.
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think I should read that testimony and see what explanation you have of it.
Mr. ROBINSON. Certainly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dmytryk was one of the early witnesses who appeared before the committee in the course of our investigation of communism in the field of entertainment, with particular reference to the moving-picture industry.
Mr. RoBINsoN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. This question was asked: During the early period-I might say about the time you were subpenaed to appear before this committee, was there any indication to you that the Com- 2418 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY munist Party was endeavoring in any way to influence the course of action that you as a group should take when you appeared here before this committee? the testimony then followed:
Mr DMYTRYK You mean the first time?' 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I certainly had no idea of it at the time. In looking back, of course, I can reach conclusions based on my later experiences about that, which I couldn't have had at the time. I think, in looking back on it and lemenlbering how the 19i were organized, I would say the answer to that would probably be "Yes."
Mr. TAVENNER.Well, describe that to the committee.
Mr. DMYTIRYK Well, it went something like this. When we first got the subpenas, Adrian Scott and I accepted subpenas from the marshal at RKO studios. We had been in touch with nobody else, nor did we get in touch with anybody else at that time We decided we wanted to get a lawyer. So I think that Adian Scott at that time (n a story, Behind the Silken Curtain, had some contact with Bartley ('rum, whom we knew as a liberal Repuolican from San Francisco, a man who had been very active in Willkie's campaign. So we decided to contact Bartley Cliim and ask him to serve as our counsel. We \ent to San Francisco and talked to him He agreed We told him our experience, that we had been ieiiibeis of the party. We had both gotten out. We asked him to serve a' our counsel Now, se came back to Hollywood, and we weie asked to attend a very loose meeting of a group of the people who had gotten subpoenas, other people who had gotten subpenas and who weie nit friendly to the committee This meetin was held in Edward G Robinson's house He was not there. As a matter of fact, lie wasn't even in town at the time The only reason it was held there-I want to make this very dear-is that Senator Pepper was visiting in Hillywood at the time, and whether he was a house guest with the Robinsons-I knoi hie \- as quite friendly They thought it would be wise if we could geet together nith Senator Pepper and find out from him what the situation vias in Washington, what the feeling a ., which ie did. He spoke, extemporaneously, of course, ei y informally. completely harmless He simply tried to give u a picture of people in Washington, what was going on in Washington, in a very broad sort of way There was nothing there you could pick on in an. way at all. \t the end of that meeting, however, we were approached by people like Herheit Biberinan, Adrian Scott, and asked to attend a further meeting, at which we would discuss procedure for our mutual benefit. Now, reference has been nmide to that meeting. Did you in advance give your approval or were you consulted about the holding of that meeting in ) ouri home
Mr. ioniNsoN. No; I had never been consulted. I found that out very much later. The story that Mr. Dmytryk tells is true. Senator Pepper was a very close friend of ours, and his wife was a very close friend of my wife. I think that they were in this particular quandary, and they knew that Senator Peppel wa, well versed in what was going on in Washington, and I think they wanted some advice as to what tactics to pursue and how to go about it. That is the way it has been explained to me. May I say this, however? I say this in absolute honesty to you. Had I heen there, I feel fairly certain that I would have allowed that thing to happen because it was previous to the investigations. I think that in one of my first testimonies I said that I felt that I was with these men at that particular time because, long before that, one of 1 TThisrefer to the licring conducted by tlip Committee on Un-American Activities in October 1947 regarditno Communist ati, titles in Hollywood 2Tis refers to the 19 persons who were orosinnlly served with subpoenas for tile 1947 Hollswood hearings Of thii group, 10 were actually called upon to testify COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2419 the past chairmen of this committee, Parnell Thomas, had given out a story that I was going to be one of the first to be subpenaed, and I never was subpenaed. Consequently, that sort of allayed my suspicions that I might have regarded everybody else, and I thought at the time that the first amendment was a very important thing, and perhaps I would not have been backward and shy in allowing Senator Pepper and this group to come to my house. There was nothing, I am sure, because my wife is the one who gave the approval.
Mrs. Robinson-may I say this-was the head of the USO of the State of California, and was on the national board. She has testimonials showing that she has done perhaps a great deal more than most women who had been associated with the USO in the country. She broke down as a result of it, and instead of taking a rest, she organized the Desert Battalion, which became rather famous. That was made up of all sorts of working girls, which gave them a certain amount of glamour. They went out to these God-forsaken places in the desert where the Hollywood coordinating committee would not send any entertainers. They used to be put in barracks there for the week ends, and they would dance with the boys and entertain them. She goes way back to Valley Forge, and I know, and everybody knows, what a great American she is. So there couldn't have been anything subversive in her mind in allowing this thing to happen. So that I go beyond your question, and say that I feel fairly certain that at that time I would have given the approval myself, even though I knew nothing about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was there ever an occasion prior to that time when a Communist Party meeting was held in your home, which you recognized as a Communist Party group
Mr. RtOBISON. No; bfit I would say that some of the members, that some of the people who were present at my house, who have been associated with these causes, and who have now been revealed as being Communists, and who would not answer the question which, to me, is more or less tantamount to their being Communists, have been in my home at various times. There were tremendous activities that went on in my house during the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did they ever meet there in Communist Party meetings, to your knowledge ?
Mr. RoBIXsoN. Never.
Mr. TAVENNER. On Communist Party matters or business?
Mr. ROBINSON. Never, sir, because, if I had had any idea that any of these organizations, as I told you in my statement, that any of these men who were important cogs in these organizations were Communists, I would not have been a member of these organizations. It was difficult for me to consent, up to these recent hearings, to say that I had been used, because, while I would still have been for these causes, I would not have done them in company with these men. I think that is the wicked and the horrible and the treacherous thing that these rascals have done in masquerading as supporters of a cause, but who at the time were just trying to encroach upon-and I suppose now I am getting wise-in trying to capture the organizations. 95829-52-pt. 7-9 2420 COMMUNItNM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY But, as far as my knowing them as Communists, or suspecting them as Communists, it may be naive, but I certainly didn't know that.
Mr. TAXENNER. Now, since you testified before the committee in October and in December of 1950, a great deal of investigative work has been done in the Hollywood area, with the result that the committee has released the testimony identifying quite a few persons in Hollywood as having been members of the Communist Party, possibly as many as 300.
Mr. ROBINsON. Yes; that is shocking to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have read the testimony, I suppose?
Mr. RoBINsoN. I have read some of it. I was on the road. I read some of it that I got in my papers, and my wife occasionally would send me some excerpts from the Hollywood Reporter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, as a result of what you have read and what you have learned from the investigations which the committee has conducted, have you any information that would be of value to the committee ?
Mr. RoBINsoN. I wish to God I had.
Mr. TAVENNER. With regard to its work in Hollywood ?
Mr. ROBINSON. Of the Communist Party?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. ROBINSON. I don't know a thing about it. This is the God's truth. I wish I could be of help to you in this way, and I would willingly volunteer any information that I had. But I was never mixed up with anything of that sort, that I knew of, or that had Communist reasons behind it. I am sure that a good many of us have been victims of that sort of thing. They have their own subtle way of working, so that you couldn't put your finger on it as being communistic. As far as I knew, whatever activities they were concerned with were causes that I was interested in, and which I thought represented the finest American ideals.
Mr. TAVENNER. Isn't that virtually the same position that you took when you were before the committee previously ?
Mr. RoBINsON. No, not before, because now, in retrospect, I can see where I had been used, and where a good many of the important people of these organizations, garnered and gathered a lot of decent, sincere people who were champions of a cause and cared for it, while they absolutely came in for another reason. In other words, they were just masquerading as supporters of the cause, while the others had sincere purposes behind them. When I found out that certain of the executive secretaries of the 1 Arts, Sciences, and Professions -I cannot recall the name-were Communists, as well as some other organizations that I had been in, I realized the dirty, filthy work that they had been doing. There was a lot of conniving going on, but at the time that it happened, I was not aware of it because, as I tell you, had I known anything like that, I would have dropped them. All of my life I have been against tyranny, and I don't give a hang for it. '1Ho llywood Inidependent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Science.s, and Professions and the Indepindient Citizens Committee of the Arts., Sciences, and Professiona. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2421 To me, communism is abhorrent. Certainly I supported Russia during the war, but, as an ally, and no more than as an ally. What I did for Russia was relatively negligible, compared to what I did for our other allies. You see, you can take things out of context and build up a case against someone, but I think that if you will really look at my record and see again, as I say. the pattern of life that I have lived all of my life and the kind of American that I have been, it is rather difficult to estimate it in any other \nay than what a darned good American I have been, of which I am proud. I think I told you that, Congressman Jackson, when I saw you in California.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Robinson, you stated that you were duped and used-by whom ?
Mr. ROBINSON. By the sinister forces who were members, and probably in important positions in these organizations.
Mr. WALTER. Well, tell us what individuals you have reference to.
Mr. RoBINsoN. Well, you had Albert Maltz, and you have Dalton Trumbo, and you have-what is the other fellow, the top fellow who they say is the commissar out there ?
Mr. WALTER. John Howard Lawson?
Mr. ROBINsoN. Yes, John Howard Lawson. I knew Frank Tuttle. I didn't know Dmytryk at all. There are the Buchmans, that I know, Sidney Buchman and all that sort of thing. It never entered my mind that any of these people were Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well now, will you tell us more in detail in what manner these people, or any of them, approached you and attempted to use you in the way that you have described ?
Mr. RonnIsox. I came in for a cause that appealed to me. Now, if you take the important organizations that I belonged to-the Arts, Sciences, and Professions, principally-they represented to me that they were the champions on the Rooseveltian policies, both internal and external. Consequently I was very much interested in it. I was a great admirer of Mr. Roosevelt. I have found out now in retrospect, and since these revelations have been made, how many of the important people in that organization were Communists at the time I was a member of it. My interest really waned with the death of Mr. Roosevelt. Well, when Mr. Gerald L. K. Smith came to California, he made some speeches. You know the kind of speeches he had been making. I was asked whether I would appear, whether I would go there and do some picketing. I thought it was a silly sort of thing to do, but I said, "Well, the others have been doing it," and after the second or third meeting that had taken place, I fell for the idea. Now I have found that they used me. I thought that it was a funny thing for me to do. I have found that a good many of the people who more or less backed Gerald L. K. Smith were Communists. I think these outside things that were being done, the superficial things that were done were done principally by this Communist group. I am thinking of omething that was in Counterattack or in Red Channels, that had me down for Yugoslav Relief,' and I find that that SAmerlean Coumtte fo Yigilay Relief. 2422 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY is a subversive organization. Now, I was not a member of Yugoslav Relief, despite what may be written in that book; but I had been solicited to come and make a speech for Yugoslav Relief.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, can you tell us the circumstances under which you were solicited, and who it was that solicited you?
Mr. ROBINSON. Well, as I remember, it was Abe Burrows who solicited me. I don't know that he is a Communist. Mind you, I am just talking about the organization being set down as being communistic. I remember Abe Burrows and his wife. I don't know wthether they were in Yugoslav Relief or not. They asked me whether I would appear on the steps of city hall. The mayor was to appear, and I was to introduce him and make an appeal for Yugoslav Relief. I found out now that that has been put down as a subversive organization, as a Communist front. That is as far as my association with it was concerned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Weie there repeated efforts made to have you contribute to the organization?
Mr RoBINsN. I don't know that I contributed anything to it. I was to just contribute my services as a speaker, and to introduce the mayor. Naturally, it appealed to me-that is, Yugoslav Relief-they were with us. Now, what is the other item I was going to mention-yes, the Society for the Protection of the Foreign Born.' I was solicited there by Donald Ogden Stewart, whom 1 had known for many yeais in the theater and long before I came into pictures, and he was a very personable and likable fellow. I find now that lie is a Communist. I was asked to appear at one of their dinners and make a little talk. At the dinner at which I appeared, William Allen White made the principal address; Dorothy Thompson spoke; Grace Moore sang the Star Spangled Banner. There were other people of that kind present. I made a funny little talk about not having been born in America. I thought that it was incumbent on me to do what I could and to appear at a function of that kind. Now, it later turned out that these were Communist organizations. I have been seeing some of their recent literature that they have sent out, such as from the Society of Arts, Sciences, and Professions, for a number of years, now, and they certainly, I would say, are subversive and communistic and are following the Russian line in that everything that America has been doing is wrong.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you made a fairly substantial contribution, did you not, to the American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born ?
Mr. RomNioN. It was very negligible-I will find that in here -I don't think it amounted to hardly anything. You will find that amongst the list of the organizations to which I gave between $350,000 and $400,000 in 10 year, that the so-called subversive organizations got hardly anything. I think it was $10 or something, and $10 again that they have gotten. They still send me literature, although I have asked them not to send it to me, but it still kind of filters in. They follow absolutely, for my purposes, that is, according to my ideas, thlie Communist line. ' American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born STestimony of Edward G Robinson October 27, and December 21, 1950, printed hearings of the committee, 81st Cong, pp. 3299-3344 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2423 
Mr. WALTER. Practically the entire activities of that organization -today are involved in trying to prevent the deportation of known ,Communists.
Mr. ROBINSON. That is right. That is exactly it. And the Society of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions follows the line that the Marshall Plan, the Atlantic Treaty, and all those sorts of things are all wrong and cockeyed. The Society for Soviet-American Friendship.' My heavens-I had better be careful what I say-but you will find that while I appeared at two or three meetings at the Hotel Astor, a good many of these were done at the instigation and behest of the State Department, our own State Department. They asked me to appear at various meetings, and make a little talk. They have asked me to make some recordings which were sent back on Red Army Day. The people who appeared at these places were the most reputable and certainly unimpeachable Americans. You couldn't question their loyalty. Now, to pick that up out of context and to forget all of the other things that I had done for the other allies, for France, for Britain, for (Greece, and for Poland-I mentioned something about the William Allen White Committee. The first thing my wife and I did when we got back in 1939, which was just about a week after war had been declared and there was the Moscow-Berlin Pact, was to hold a great big garden party for the victims of Poland. You will find that in my testimony. That was also done for the Red Cross of Britain, and for all of the victims of that particular pact.
Mr. MOULDER. Following the chairman's statement, you made an expression about everything having been all wrong and not right. I take it you were quoting the belief of the organization-that was not your own belief? Don't you think that for the record you should clarify that?
Mr. RoBINSON. I don't quite understand the question.
Mr. MOULDER Following the chairman's statement, you made some statement about that organization believing that the Marshall Plan and everything else were all wrong.
Mr. RoBINSON. Yes.
Mr. MOULDER. That was the belief of the organization and not your own?
Mr. ROBINsoN. Yes, the Society for the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. I was not a member of it any longer. There was not a formal membership in many of these organizations, and there was no formal resignation. As I think you well know, there wasn't anything of that kind that went on. They continued to send me literature. They continued to use my name. I finally wrote them to stop doing that, and I found that they were still doing it and still sending me literature.
Mr. TAVENNER. In these cases where they were using your name, were they doing so without your consent ?
Mr. ROBINSON. Without my consent. There is one organization, the ,Civil Rights Congress, which has been mentioned in Red Channels. 0 National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. 2424 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Now, I know nothing about the Civil Rights Congress. As a matter of fact, I made it my business to investigate that organization. I found that there was a Civil Rights Congress office in Los Angeles. Well, I went there against the advice of my friends, who knew a little better and said, "Don't be seen in a place like that." I said, "Why, I have nothing to be afraid of. I am certainly not a member. I am going down there to get some information." They had me down as an initiator of that particular organization. I went down there and found that they certainly had nothing of the kind. I tried to ask them to show me letterheads, or something, where my name was written down as a sponsor or as an initiator, or anything at all, and they had nothing of the kind. Where they got that information, I don't know.
Mr. KEARNEY. Well, they did use your name, though, Mr. Robinson. What steps did you take, if any, to prevent the use of your name by this organization?
Mr ROBINsoN. I went down there and asked them to show me how they were using my name. My name was never on any letterhead that they presented to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you go there to make that investigation?
Mr. RoBINSON. Previous to my first appearance before you.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think you have testified on that.
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes. It is incorporated in the brief that I presented during my first appearance.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you have spoken about the large contributions that you have made and the relative smallness of your contributions to these organizations which you have now recognized to have been Communist-front organizations.
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you endeavored to calculate the proportions of your contributions to Communist-front organizations as compared to contributions to the other organizations?
Mr. RoBINsoN. Yes, sir. I believe you have that in my first brief. Would you like me to read that?
Mr. TAVEI NER. Just as you like.
Mr. ROBINsox. Well, I think it answers your question, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right, sir.
Mr. ROBINSON. Do you mind ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Go right ahead.
Mr. ROBINSON (reading) : Perhaps Mr. Robinson's character, mental mnake-up, and spheres of interest is revealed more clearly in analysis of his financial contributions to worthy causes In a period of 10 years from 1939 to 1949, he contributed more than a quarter of a million dollars. The figures for this analysis were drawn from Mr Robinson's books and income-tax reports The largest sum, close to $130,000, was given to organizations whose purpose it was to build morale during the war among our soldiers at the home front. This does not include the personal services of which he gaie unstmtingly. Mention should be made that he financed the major portion of both his trips abroad out of his own funds The largest recipient of Mr. Robinson's gift was the USO. Other large contributions went to the Desert Battalion, Salute to the Wounded Chaplains Fund, Hollywood Guild Canteen, and the Masqueis Servicemen's Morale Corps. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2425 More than $30,000 was given by Mr. Robinson to charities which, in one way or another, aided victims of World War II. Among these were contributions to foieigi war relief organizations, such as the China Relief Agency, Free French, British Relief, Aid to Greece, Finland, Poland, Czechoslovakia, and so forth. His contributions to the people who were victims of the Berlin-Moscow Pact began at the very outset of the war, in 1930, while the Berlin-Moscow Pact was still in effect and before the United States entry into the Charities maintained by religious groups received more than $6t7,000 in the 10-year period, and in that cae, too, piactit(,tllv every denomination \as given consideration Catholic churches and hospitals, the Salvation Almy, Episcopal and Congiegational churches came to Mr Robinson foi aid and it. Of course, Jewish chaities received a good share of this sum, since Mr Robinson is of that faith. Organizations dedicated to the promotion of better understanding among people of different race or treed received $10,40(O. Among them were the United Negro College Fund, the George Washington Carver Association. National Conference of Christians and Jews The Urban League, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, University Religious Confeience, and others of that type. Another $10,000 went to educational and cultural groups, particularly to art associations, museums, symphony associations, artists' fellowships, universities, libraries, and so forth. Groups aiding underprivileged, disabled, blind, aged people, etc, received over $15,000, among them the Braille Institute, Helping Hand, National Society for Prevention of Blindness, Home of the A:ed, Industiial Center for the Aged, etc. There were contributions also to the National Foundation on Infantile Paralysis, Damon Runyon Fund, Sister Kenny Foundation, and the Community Chest's crippled children's fund, Children's Aid Society, Benefit for Spastic Children, Nursery School for Handicapped Children, Prison Relief Organizations, and the motion-picture relief fund were amniong the beneficiaries Patriotic, youth and veterans' organizations received around $2,000, among them the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, YMCA, YWCA, Eddie Cantor Camp Committee, Boy Scouts, boys clubs of various sorts, and many others These figures do not add up to make the donor a Communist or fellow traveler. Most of the recipients aie what the Communists call either bourgeois or fascist. rPein a consistent Democrat and a follower of Franklin D Roosevelt, Mr. Robinson contributed to the party's election campaigns In 1.940, he contributed $250 to F. D. R's campaign through the Hollywood for Roosevelt Committee. In 1944 lie contributed to the Democratic candidates seeking election to the United States Congiess and the California State Assembly; $500 was given to the Hollywood Democratic Cm'inittee, and $1,500 was given to the NCPAC to purchase radio time in Franklin Roosevelt's behalf. HICCASP' received $250 at the time of its founding, in May 1945 In addition, three contribution, amounting to $195, were made to HICCASP in 1946 to support regular Democratic candidates The Los Angeles chapter of PCA ' received $200 to cover part of the expenses 9 of its founding meeting on February 11, 1 47, and two additional contributions followed in that year amounting to $373 50, the latest of those on May 19, 1947. The National Council for American-Soviet Fliendship received during the war period a contribution of $100 and aninial dues for 2 years of $5 each, totaling $110. In addition, the following amounts were given to the American Society for Russian Relief, Inc In 1941, in 1942, $144 50; in 1943, $11 50; in 1945, $75.
Mr Robinson's books do not contain an explanation for the odd figures, but he assumes they were for purchases of tickets. In comparison to the quarter <f a million dollars, the contributions to organizations listed in Red Channels are microscopically small. The point need not be labored. The facts and figures speak for themselves conflict. received $11: 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you have no changes that you desire to make in your statement with regard to contributions since you were before the committee ?
Mr. ROBINSON. I have none whatever, sir. They are all in my books, and as reported on my income-tax returns. 1a Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Progressive Citizens of America. 2426 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. There was a period during World War II when the policy of the Army toward members of the Communist Party, who were inductees in the Army was changed. The decision was reached to commission, or to permit men who were members of the Communist Party to be commissioned as officers in the Army. We find that you sent a telegram commending the Army for that action. What is your explanation for that?
Mr. ROBINsON. The telegram had been sent to me signed by very reputable people, and I think they solicited my name.
Mr. TAVFNXER. Now, will you be specific? To whom do you refer when you say "they"?
Mr. ROBINSON. I haven't the telegram with me. I submitted that telegram to the FBI when I asked them to investigate me. I wish I were prepared now as I was prepared the last time when I came to see you, but they do have a copy of that telegram. I am sure they have it.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Well now, what is your recollection about the circumstances under which you were asked to take part or to sign that telegram?
Mr. RoBiNsoN. They thought it was an un-American idea not to allow Communists to receive commissions.
Mr. TAVENNER. Whom do you mean by "they"?
Mr. ROBINSON. The people-whoever they were-whose names were on that particular telegram. I do not recall them, Mr. Tavenner, at the moment; but I submitted that telegram to the FBI. I submitted everything that I thought might be damaging against me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were they individuals or were they acting as members of an organization ?
Mr. RomBINSON. Well, I don't recall. I believe they were individuals. Perhaps it was a committee, and perhaps they enumerated the various names of those who were backing it. I thought, being a liberal-minded man at that time, that that was the right sort of thing to do, to lend my name as well. In terms of today, I certainly would not do it, considering what I know now years later, but I thought then that since they were good enough to be in the Army they ought to be good enough to have equal privileges of becoming officers. That is the way it appeared to me at the time.
Mr. TA\ENNER. I am principally interested in how the movement was organized, and what was behind the movement, which I cannot do without knowledge of the names of the individuals or the organizations who were sponsoring it.
Mr. RmBINSON. I cannot recall whether it was an organization or whether it was a committee made up of certain people, but I do know that there were some very reputable names that sort of impressed me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you endeavor to secure that information and furnish it to the committee?
Mr. RoBINsoN. Yes; I will try to do it, sir. I shall do that.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that Dalton Trumbo was one of those "who visited your home?
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes, sir.
Mr. T.AVENNER. On a number of occasions?
Mr. RoBINsoiN. Yes. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2427 
Mr. TAVENNER. After his conviction for contempt of Congress, did you have any financial transactions with him?
Mr. ROBINSON. He had written me a letter, sir, in which he described to me the financial straits that he was in. He had been denied employment for some time, and he stated that he had consumed a lot of money in his appearances, in fighting his legal battle as to his contempt charges. He enumerated to me in his letter the various difficulties that he was in, stating that he was going to lose his farm, that something was going to happen to his home and to his family, and he asked me for the loan of some money.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you understand whether or not the money you were lending hun was to be used in his defense?
Mr. ROBINSON. It had nothing to do with his defense. I have submitted letters to the FBI on the question-I voluntarily submitted them-showing the purpose of all that and also a letter that he wrote to me previous to his going to the penitentiary, telling me that he was thanking me for the loan that I had made him, how much it had helped set his economic situation straight, and that he felt it incumbent upon him when he got out of the penitentiary as one of his first obligations, to repay his debt to me. I have found out recently, Mr. Tavenner, that he has made a settlement with his company regarding his contract, and I thought it best to send him a letter and say "What about the money you owe me?" I sent it to him, but I never received an answer.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know whether he is working in Hollywood at the present time?
Mr. ROBINSON. No, sir; I don't know where lie is. I sent him a. letter to what I think was called Hopewell Ranch, some place in California. That is where I sent the letter. It was never returned to me, although it had the return address on it, so I imagine that he received it. I don't know how he could work in Hollywood. I really don't know where he is-I have no idea at all. They say that some of them are in Mexico. Isn't that what they say? I was told that he was in Mexico, by somebody.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member at the present time of any Communist-front organization that you recognize as a Communistfront organization?
Mr. ROBINSON. Not any.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or which has been cited, to your knowledge, by the Attorney General of the United States, or this committee?
Mr. ROBINSON. I am not a member of any organizations except clubs, now, my country club and my actors' club-two actors' clubs. Try and get me. I can tell you that actors' clubs are very good, conservative organizations. As you know, the Screen Actors' Guild, Actors' Equity at that time, is a good, conservative organization.
Mr. WALTER. You are a litle gun shy now ?
Mr. ROBINSON. Oh, yes. There ain't room for both of us in this town-one of us has got to go, and it was me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with a person by the name of Jack Johnstone?
Mr. ROBINSON. The name doesn't mean anything to me. It doesn't strike a bell. 2428 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a copy of the Daily Worker, which has in it the photograph of Jack Johnstone, and I will ask you to look at it and state whether you can identify it.
Mr. ROBINSON. That face looks familiar to me. It vaguely looks like somebody I know, but I couldn't tell you what his name is. I don't know that this man is Jack Johnstone. The face looks familiar to me. That is all that I can tell you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with a person by the name of Robert Reed, usually called Bob Reed ?
Mr. ROBINSON. What is his business? Mr. Tavenner, you must excuse me, but all of my life-and I am telling you the truth-I have been awfully bad on names. That face looked familiar to me. I must say that. What was his business?
Mr. TsNENNER. Mr. Kazan testified that Robert Reed was an organizer within the cultural group of the Communist Party.
Mr. ROBINSON. I had nothing to do with Kazan. I just used to see him from the other side as an auditor, when I was an actor. Then when I got into pictures, I would see him in California, when he became a motion-picture director. I don't believe I know Mr. Reed. The name doesn't strike a bell with me. I don't know that man Johnstone. He looks like a man whom I know is not him at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not you ever had an engagement or an appointment with him?
Mr. ROBINSON. With Robert Reed?
Mr. TAVENNER. No; with Jack Johnstone.
Mr. RoBINsoN. I don't think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or with Robert Reed ?
Mr. RmBINsoN. No. I don't know any Robert Reed. If I do, the name does not sort of conjure up a face before me. But I would like to know what you have in mind regarding Mr. Reed, and perhaps I can answer you that way.
Mr. TAVENNER. There is a question in our minds as to whether you ever had a conference with Jack Johnstone, or whether one had been arranged for you.
Mr. ROBINSON. I don't know of any, and I don't know any Jack Johnstone. That is the truth, and I don't know anything about a Robert Reed. What would the meeting have been about?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, it would have related to Communist Party matters, if it were held.
Mr. ROBINSON. I never had any such meeting in my life. I have never met with anyone about any such thing, never in my life.
Mr TAVENNER. You have never met with anyone from the national committee of the Communist Party?
Mr. ROBINSON. If I had, I wouldn't know about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. On Communist Party matters, to your knowledge?
Mr. ROBINsON. Never, to my absolute knowledge-I am saying this under oath. I say to mi absolute knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time ever been acquainted with a person named Alpa Brown? That may not have been the man's correct name. His correct name may have been Ferruccio Marini.
Mr. RoIINSON. No, sir; not that I can recall. I don't recall any such name. I have met an awful lot of people in my days, but I don't recall any name of that kind. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2429 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Any questions, Mr. Moulder ?
Mr. MOULDER. No questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Kearney?
Mr. KEARNEY. No questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. I have just a couple of questions. What is your feeling, Mr. Robinson, with respect to those witnesses who have appeared before this committee in recent months, and declined to affirm or deny public identification of themselves as members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. RIBINsoN. I haven't the least sympathy with them. I think the tempo of the times have completely changed.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you believe that those people should be reemployed in the motion-picture industry in any capacity ?
Mr. ROBINSON. I am not an employer, and I don't think that I should have to answer that question.
Mr. JACKSON. I am asking you your opinion, as one who has been closely associated with the entertainment world for a long time.
Mr. RoBIxsoN. Well, I have no use for people of that kind. I think that wherever you find anyone who works under wraps, who does things in a clandestine fashion, and, as I said before, masquerades as something he is not, and then you find out that he has been engaged in sinister purposes, which I believe the Communist Party and Communists represent, drastic measures should be taken.
Mr JACKSON. Of course, I don't think there is any question but that Communists work under wraps.
Mr. ROBIxNSON. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. The reluctance of these people to associate themselves with the Communist Party is indicative of that.
Mr. Chairman, I have no further questions, but I should like to say this. since this is perhaps an excellent place to clear up a lot of public misunderstanding as to the functions of the committee. The committee is an investigative body, and my understanding of it is that it does not have the power, nor is it delegated the authority to find either guilt or innocence. It marshals certain facts and certain information which is made available to it and, in turn, questions witnesses. The testimony of the witness, then, must stand on its own feet. I am sure that no member of this committee has ever identified you as a member of the Communist Party, Mr. Robinson.
Mr. ROBINIONx. Yes, but, Mr. Jackson, may I recall that-I don't know whether this is in order or notMr. WALTER. Go ahead.
Mr. RonIso'. I think that in my meeting with you I told you the same thing that I told this committee. After all, I am saying exactly what I said here before, and that is that I feel that this is the only tribunal where an American citizen can come and ask for relief from smears, false accusations, and innuendoes.
Mr. Jackson, I think that when I saw you, I said that if you foundI didn't ask for one bit of mercy-that in any way I had trespassed on 2430 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY the truth, or that in any way I had perjured myself, you would go' ahead and take absolute steps against me. I have been a victim of this sort of thing for 3 or 4 years, and you must realize how much that must mean to an individual whose loyalty is questioned. Where can I go and ask for relief ?
Mr. JACKSON. That is very true, and no member of this committee, nor any Member of the Congress has the idea that he is to persecute the innocent. Hysterical witnesses to the contrary, that is the truth. However, how could this committee relieve any witness of responsibility for prior activities and prior associations, which the committee did not lead the witness into, but which he went into of his own free will? Your previous testimony here is simply a compilation of certain information which had reached the committee. The committee cannot say that that information is incorrect because in several instances, at least, you have acknowledged that you were led into these, things, and that you were to an extent a dupe. The committee cannot say, for instance, that you were not associated with the Soviet-American Friendship Committee or HICCASP, or the Hollywood Democratic Committee.
Mr. ROBINSON. Wouldn't you say, Mr. Jackson, that some of our most illustrious-and again I say most unimpeachable-people have been members of those organizations, too?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. Several unimpeachable persons testified as witnesses for Alger Hiss.
Mr. ROBINSON. It is a question of weeding out those who are really sinister people and those who are really good Americans.
Mr. JACKSON. The committee has said that there is no evidence that you are or have ever been a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. RcomNsoN. I am here to be investigated, but may I ask you a question ? Do you believe in your heart that I have been disloyal to my country ?
Mr. JACKSON. Let me put it this way: I don't believe that you have' knowingly been disloyal to your country. Mr. Robinson. I think that some of your activities have lent aid and comfort to the Communist Party, perhaps inadvertently on your part.
Mr. ROBINSON. Inadvertently and unknowingingly.
Mr. JACKSON. I would be the last person in the world to call anyone a Communist unless I had irrefutable evidence to that effect.
Mr. ROBINSON. Will you say that about me
Mr. JACKSON. What is that?
Mr. ROBINSON. Will you repeat what you told me before? I hope you will say it now.
Mr. JACKSON. I personally do not believe that you were a member of the Communist Party. Let me extend that a little further. Let me say that the activities in which you have engaged have, to some extent and in some degree in the past lent aid and comfort to the international Communist conspiracy. Perhaps that was through no volition of your own, but again, the fact of association with and activities on behalf of some of these organizations is a fact which will stand or fall of its own weight. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2431 The point is that the committee or no member of the committee can simply say "Well, these organizations didn't really exist. Mr. Robinson wasn't actually associated with them in any way." That is the point I make, Mr. Robinson.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Robinson, the only question I have to ask is this: You made some reference to Red Channels.
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. This is just to clear up a thought in my own mind. Were you designated as a member of the Communist Party in Red Channels?
Mr. RoBiNsoN. No, but having my name appearing there is almost equivalent, I think. It was almost tantamount to it, considering the way, considering the way the thing was gotten up, that particular paper, magazine or book, whatever you call it, with a drawing of a red hand stabbing at the heart of something or other. The first thing that I did was to come down and present my case as to "Red Channels." I had this brief drawn, which I incorporated in my first hearing before the committee. They never had me down as a member of the Communist Party. If they had done that, they would have had something on their hands. You see that is what I have been ,ivictim of Mr. Kearney. If you are a member of the Communist Party there is something positive there. What happens to a man who has never been a member of the Communist Party and who has been smeared and upon whom insinuations, innuendoes and false accusations have been heaped, so as to make people question his loyalty? Where is an American going to go and find some relief from that? It is none of my business to say that, and I hope you will not think that I am presumptious.
Mr. KEARNEY. Let me understand you. Do I understand from your statement just now that you have been called a Communist by certain people ?
Mr. RoBInsoN. I have been called subversive. What does it actually mean? It means a traitor. After all, that is the most heinous crime that a man can be guilty of. I think is the rarest sort of crime, because I think most everybody can point to the fact that he is a good citizen.
Mr. KEARNEY. Have you ever taken counsel with any of your attorneys on that particular score, wherein you have been called subversive by certain individuals, or perhaps organizations?
Mr. RoBINsoN. I did, Congressman Kearney. When my name was first mentioned by Matthew Woll in a magazine article in which he mentioned some other rather good names, I took that article, which was republished in The Reporter, and showed it to my attorney in California. He said, "Well, look, this is so cowardly worded, that if you went to court you would not get a judgment." That happened again and again, and so I abandoned it, and did nothing about it.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other words, your attorney probably felt the same as some of us on this committee who have been designated as Red baiters by certain people.
Mr. ROBINSON. It is exactly the same thing. One is as wicked as the other. I put them in the same category. 2432 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY I made a picture called Confessions of a Nazi Spy and I was very proud to have been associated with the play that I have just finished doing and which I hope will be made into a picture, if I can persuade them out there to do so.
Mr. KEARNEY. Is your residence still in Hollywood?
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes; Beverly Hills.
Mr. KEARNEY. You said that you knew John Howard Lawson?
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes; I have seen him at meetings.
Mr. KEARNEY. Is he connected with the motion-picture industry at the present time?
Mr. ROBINSON. Is he in the motion-picture industry ?
Mr. KEARNEY. Yes.
Mr. ROBINSON. I don't believe so. I have been out of the motionpicture industry myself for about a year or so, and so I don't know, but I am sure he isn't however.
Mr. KEARNEY. I didn't hear that.
Mr. ROBINSON. I am sure that lie is not, Congressman Kearney. I don't think he will ever be in again, for that matter.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Robinson, from the record it appears that most of the organizations to which you made contributions were meritorious, worth-while, and outstanding charitable organizations?
Mr. RoBINsoN. Yes.
Mr. MOULDER. And as to some of them that you say you made contributions to, it later developed, without your knowledge at the time, that they may have been or later became under control of Communists.
Mr. RoBINsoN. At least they were so designated bN the Attorney General as subversive organizations.
Mr. MUULDER. But you had no knowledge of that whatever?
Mr. RoBINsoN. I said that I did not at the time, sir.
Mr. MIOULDER. Mr. Jackson has made the statement that this committee is not in a position to exonerate or to vindicate any person who has been wrongfully accused of being a Communist or who has been smeared as a result of such false accusations. I will agree with him to a certain extent. However, I believe that when, as a result of any proceedings or functions of tlns committee, someone has been unjustly smeared or injured, it is our duty to aid that person and give that person an opportunity to appeal before the committee to explain and defend himself as you have done.
Mr. EmIN.-sN. Thank you, sir. Ml. MOULDER. I want further to say that I appreciate the strong and vigorous statement that you have made. It was a splendid statement--clear and convincing.
Mr. ROBINImON. Thank you, Congressman Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. I don't believe that any member of the committee is any more anxious to reveal or expose dangers of communism and subveisive activities in our America than you are. You are a great artist and I believe that you have been unjustly imposed upon and smeared. You have been generous to many worthwhile charitable organizations and on many occasions you have voluntarily contributed and per- foied valuable and patriotic service for our great country.
Mr. ROBINSON. Thank you.
Mr. MOULDER. According to the evidence presented to this committee you are a good, loyal, and intensely patriotic American citizen.
Mr. ROBINSON. Thank you, sir. You are very kind to say that. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2433 What I am most jealous of, after good theatrical notices, is my Americanism, and I am very happy to hear that coming from you. Believe me, Congressman Jackson, when you said that you didn't believe that I am a Commumnist, it made me feel good.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, I am happy that it did. I have several more questions. Have you, Mr. Robinson, recently made application for a passport?
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the outcome of that application?
Mr. ROBINSON. I am to meet with Miss Shipley.'
Mr. JACKSON. With Miss Shipley?
Mr. ROBINSON. Yes.
Mr. JACKSOX. There has been no decision rendered upon the request?
Mr. ROBINSON. No. I am to meet her todaN. I was coming in to see her.
Mr. WALTER. Have you anything further?
Mr. JACKSON. I have nothing further.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Robinson, your testimony before this committee has been valuable in this respect: It ought to give notice to a lot of well-meaning people that they can be imposed upon through the machinations of this group who are past masters at organizing the innocent. You certainly opened up the door to all sorts of suspicion by becoming a member of so many organizations. That is understandable because of your prominence. The fact that you would be identified with a movement would of itself attract other people. By the same token I hope that other people in this country have learned a lesson from your unfortunate experience, and will not permit themselves to be imposed upon.
Mr. ROBINsON. I hope so.
Mr. WALTER. This morning we had a witness testify concerning the activities of this organization for the protection of the foreign-born, of which you were a member. Well, actually, that organization does more harm to the foreignborn than does anything else in America today.
Mr. ROBINSON. It is in the hands of the wrong people.
Mr. WALTER. But still, thousands of unsuspecting, innocent people join it, just as you did, and contribute their money to it, and that money is used for the purpose of preventing the deportation of Communists or felons. It is indeed refreshing to have somebody like you come here and make the kind of statement you did, because I am sure that people will be warned and will not want to find themselves in the position that you found yourself, with the only place to which you could appeal, was this committee. The statement that Mr. Jackson made about the function of this committee not being to determine the guilt or innocence of anyone is quite correct. However, we have felt in the last few years that this committee is under certain obligations to give to people an opportunity, where they have been mentioned in connection with any investigation, the opportunity to come here and make a statement. 1 don't know of any other forum where that could be done. 1Individual in the Passport Division of the State Department 2434 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, I also believe that in justice to any individual who comes before this committee, it should be noted in the record whether or not the committee has any information that the individual is a Communist.
Mr. WALTER. Well, actually, this committee has never had any evi- dence presented to indicate that you were anything more than a very choice sucker. I think you are No. 1 on every sucker list in the country.
Mr. ROBINSON. We were in very trying and emotional times. The war was going on.
Mr. WALTER. Well, I am shocked to see my name on the list of con- tributors to some of these organizations myself.
Mr. ROBINSON. Well, there you are.
Mr. KEARNEY. It is the same way, Mr. Robinson, with reference to the individuals who are signing the so-called peace petitions that daily come before the Congress. They are all well-meaning individuals. I do not know of anybody in this country that does not want peace.
Mr. RoBINsoN. They pick on a subject on which they are all agreed, some cause on which they are all agreed.
Mr. WALTER. Is there anything further, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. The committee stands adjourned.
Mr. ROBINsoN. Thank you very much. (Whereupon, at 3:20 p. m., the committee recessed, to reconvene upon the call of the chairman.) x 