Mr. COHN. I as Sidney Cohn, 1776 Broadway, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name?
Mr. KRAFT. My full name is Hyman Solomon Kraft.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Kraft?
Mr. KRAFT. I was born on April 30, 1899, in New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. KRAFT. I now reside at 410 East Fifty-seventh Street.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, I was wondering if the witness could raise his voice a little. He is hard to hear.
Mr. WALTER. Keep your voice up.
Mr. KRAFT. I will try, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you say is your present place of residence?
Mr. KRAFT. 410 East Fifty-seventh Street, New York City. 23(5 2396 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in New York City?
Mr. KRAFT. I spent 10 years, about 10 to 12 years in California. Most of my life I have spent in New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you review briefly for the committee your educational training ?
Mr. KRAFT. I was educated in the public and high schools of New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what has been your occupation since 1935, say?
Mr. KRAFT. My major occupation throughout my adult and professional life has been that of a Broadway playwright.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the performance of your work, have you been employed by any particular organization or group? In other words, state for the committee briefly what your employment record has been.
Mr. KRAFTrr. In the theater I have held various jobs. Among other things I have produced several shows. One was Gentlemen of the Press in 1928 by Ward Morehouse, and another play called Poppa by the Spewacks, they are a well-known Broadway writing team. Subsequently I wrote in collaboration with Marc Hellinger a musical called Hot Cha. I also wrote the original story of the musical called the New Yorkers. 9
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little, please
Mr. KRAFT. I will try to. I am trying to direct it to the stenographer.
Mr. CoHN. Direct it to Mr. Tavenner, please.
Mr. KRAFT. I will, sir. I wrote the original story for the musical called the New Yorkers.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that, approximately ?
Mr. KRAFT. Some time in the thirties, sir. I then wrote the play Cafe Crown, which was produced in 1941 or 1942 in New York City. I spent the years from about 1937 or 1938 to 1950 living in California and working sporadically in the motion-picture business. My last screen creditMr. TAVENNER. What were the principal screen credits you received between 1938 and 1950 while living in Hollywood?
Mr. KRAFT. My credits are very sparse, Mr. Tavenner. I wrote several original stories for the screen, and my last credit, if I remember correctly, was in 1942 when I did the screen adaptation of a musical in Fox-Twentieth Century called Stormy Weather.
Mr. TAVENNER. What other productions have you had besides those that you received the screen credits for?
Mr. KRAFT. I worked on several originals at MGM, but these were never produced. One in particular was a story for Esther Williams, but through the mechanics of the studio the picture itself was never produced.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
Mr. KRAFT. That was in 1942. I think that was in 1942. (Mr. Kraft confers with his counsel.)
Mr. KRAFT. My last. actual part in Hollywood was for Paramount Studios in 1946 or 1947, an original story which was unproduced.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where have you been employed from 1946 on ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2397 
Mr. KRAFT. Mr. Tavenner, I have occupied rather ambivalent positions since my chief interest has always been the theater, and, as I say, I have worked only sporadically in Hollywood from time to time, and sold an original when the circumstances were such that I could get them.
Mr. TAVExNNEI.. Will you briefly describe what your work in the theater has been since you returned to the East from the west coast?
Mr. KRAFTr. For the last 212 years or the last 3 years, I have been almost completely occupied in preparing the production of the musical Top Banana, which is also running in New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kraft, you are aware of the fact, I suppose, that your name has been brought into the hearings before this committee at various times during its investigation of communism in the entertainment field, especially in the moving-picture industry; are you not ?
Mr. KRAFT. Yes, I am.
Mr. TAVENNxE-R. There have been several witnesses who have mentioned your name, and there have been several who have mentioned it in a very positive manner, and I want to ask you several questions with regard to that testimony. On September 18, 1951, a subcommittee of the House Un-American Activities Committee heard the testimony of Martin Berkeley, who admitted former membership in the Communist Paity and furnished the committee information concerning his activities and associations while in the Communist Party.
Mr. Berkeley in describing various transactions of the Communist Party furnished testimony concerning those dealing with minority groups. In describing individuals whom he knew to he members of the Communist Party in these hearings, he described a Hy, H-y, Kraft, K-r-a-f-t, and stated: "I presume that lie is Hyman, H-y-m-a-n. I have also know him as Hy, H-y. His name is spelled K-r-a-f-t." Were you acquainted with Mr. Martin Berkeley?
Mr. KRAFT. Yes.
Mr. KEARNEY. Was that answer ves?
Mr. KRAFT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what work were you engaged at any time in conjunction with Martin Berkeley, if any? (Mr. Kraft confers with his counsel.)
Mr. KRAIT. I was never engaged in any professional work with
Mr. Martin Berkeley.
Mr. TAVENNER. You limited or restricted your answer to professional work.
Mr. CohN. He did not, Mr. Tavenner. You may not have heard the last. He said, "or any other kind of work."
Mr. TAVENNER. Oh.,I did not hear that.
Mr. Berkeley, in the course of his testimony, was talking about fraction meetings, and I should read this question and answer in order to give you the proper background of his statement. I asked him this question: By "fraction meetings" I mean fraction meetings of the Communist Party. That was my statement.
Mr. BERKELEY. Of the Communist Party. Someone asked me where the name "fraction" came from, whether it was "faction," and I told this gentleman that 2398 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY if there was a faction you were thrown out of the party; that was a fraction [f-r-a-c-t-i-o-n] which was called a fraction because it was part of the whole QUESTION Well, s ill ou tell us about the work of those fraction meetings'
Mr BERKELEY. The fraction dealing with minority groups- which I interpolate to mean fraction of the Communist Party in the light of the questionsand again this ran over a period of time. Jerome Cihodorov, one of the authors of My Sister Eileen, Nwas a party member, and Lester Koenin. K o-e-n-i-g, \ho is now an associate producer; Rowland Kibbee, K-i-h-h-e-e, and Marguerite Roberts, husband John Sanford, a witer; Morton Grant and Melvin Levy, L-e-v-y, Allen Boretz, B-o-r-e-t-z, coauthor of Room Service, Hy Kraft- Now, was Mr. Berkeley correct in stating that you were associated as part of this fraction meeting involving minority groups of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KRAFT. Mr. Tavenner, I would like to state first that I am not a member of the Communist Party, and I decline to answer this question on the grounds that it violates my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you ever a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to correct the record for the sake of accuracy. The testimony of Mr. Berkeley was on the 19th instead of the 18th of September. You state that you are not now a member of the Communist Party, is that correct?
Mr. KRAFT. I stated that I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean at this time
Mr. KRAFT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kraft, on January 23, 1952, Mr. Max Silver, formerly a high functionary of the Communist Party in Los Angeles, a county organizer of Los Angeles County, to be exact, testified in executive session before thi committee, and until the present time you have had no opportunity to know to what extent if any lie might have involved you in his testimony. The committee has permitted the release of that executive testimony to the extent that I am now going to state to you. Mr. Silver was asked the question as to whether or not you were known to him to have been a member of the Communist Party. His answer is: I have known IIy Kraft in Hollywood in, I believe, the yeat 1937. party member He was a Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1937
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, Mr. Tavenner, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is the statement made by Mr. Silver true or false?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know Mr. Max Silver?
Mr. KRAFT. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. In what connection did you know Mr. Silver?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. KEARNEY. Have you ever attended any meetings of any kind with Mr. Silver?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, General, on the previously stated grounds. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2399 
Mr. TA\ENNER. You state that you are not a member of the Communist Party now. And you refuse to answer whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party in 1937. Mlay I ask you whether you were a member of the Communist Party in 195( when you left Los Angeles and returned to New York City
Mr. KRAFT. I was not a member of the Communist Pai ty in 1950.
Mr. TAVENNER. Specifically when did you leave Los Angeles to return to New York?
Mr. KRAFT. I think it was in September of 1950.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time during the year 1950 ?
Mr. KRAFT. I was not a member of the Communist Patty during 1950.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, there is a little difference in your answer from my question. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any tune during the year 1950?
Mr. KRAFT. NO. 
Mr. KEArINEY. Were you a member of the communist t Party in 1949?
Mr. KRAFT. I was not a member of the Conmmunist Party in 1949; no.
Mr. KEARNEY. In 1948?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAN ENXER. How were you employed in 1948' iMr. KRAFT. I don't remember that I had any specific employment in 1948. I think that is when I started work on Top Banana. I think that is when I started working on shows.
Mr. KEARNEY. If you were not a member of the Communist Party in 1948, would you so state to this committee ?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, General.
Mr. CoHx. Would you get that again' Do you mind if we consult for a moment?
Mr. KEARNEY. Not at all. (Mr. Kraft confers with his counsel.
Mr. C(nx. Would you read the question back?
Mr. WALTER. Read the question, please. (The record was read by the reporter as follows:) If you were not a member of the Communist Party in 1948, would you so state to this committee? 
Mr. KEARNEY. If you were not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. KRAFT. I would have so stated, that is correct.
Mr. KEARXEY. And the same question pertaining to 1947?
Mr. KRAFT. I must decline-I decline to answer. Just a minute. (Mr. Kraft confers with his counsel.)
Mr. CoxN. You do not mind my consulting with him ?
Mr. KEARXEY. No, no; that is what you are there for. (Mr. Kraft confers with his counsel.)
Mr. KEARNEY. I will rephrase that question. If you were a member of the Communist Party in 1947, would you so state?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer this question, sir. MIr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kraft, the committee is in possession of information regarding your alleged participation in various Commumnist-front activities prior to 1948. The committee is anxious to know the circumstances under which your affiliation, if it existed, with such organizations occurred, and any other information that you 95829-52-pt. 7--7 2400 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY can give us regarding the ('ommunist Party activities within those organizations. For instance, the committee is in possession of a paniphlet describing the Wnritm s' Congress of 1943, which was held, as you know, in early October of that year, which indicates that this congress was held under the joint auspices of the University of California and the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. This pamphlet indicates that you were on the panel for arrangements. First of all, were you a member of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization / 
Mr KiiAr. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, were you a participant in the Writers' Conpress of 1943 sponsored by the Unimversity of California and the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. T.\\ ENNER. Tlie committee is also in possession of a photostatic copy of a booklet pliulished by tile Actors' Laboratoi y. Inc., which is described as a schedule for activities for 1949 and 19.50. This pamphlet indicates that you were a member of the Actors' Laboratory, Inc. Were you amember of that organization
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. KEARNEY. Is his llaile on that llhotostatl copy
Mr. COHN. After you are through with it, General, do you mind if we see it, too?
Mr. T.1AENNER. I think thle name appears as a member of thlie board.
Mr. KEARNEY. I would like to ask the witness if lie ever repudiated the use of his name a- a member of the board of Actors' Laboratory, Inc. ( Mr. Kraft confers with his counsel.)
Mr. T.AVENNER. In 1)949)-.0. 
Mr. KRAFT. May I see that (I)ocument handed to Mr. Kraft, and Mr. Kraft and his counsel consult document.) KRAFT. I never saw this pamphlet before, Mr. Tavenner. iMr.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your name does appear as a member of the board, does it not ? Mir. KirFT. Yes. Alr. TAVENNER. Iid you authorize the use of your naine for that purpose ?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer on that question.
Mr. WA.iLTr.. This was in 1949. You say that in 1949 you were not a (Communist. 
Mr. Ki FT. I have said that: yes, sir.
Mr. W iLIuR. And you decline to answer the question of whether or not you were a member of this organization, because I am assuming that you know that was a Communist organization ? Alr. KaFr. The Actors' Laboratory has been cited.
Mr. W.ALTER. Yes. MAr.KAurir. As a subversive organization. M 1. WV \LTER. That is why you refuse to :misaer the question, because of that
Mr. KRaiT. Yes, sir.
Mr. J.AuKsO,. Mr. Chairmiiian, I think the record should also show that the citation on the Actors' Laboratory was in 1947, or fully 2 years COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY before the dates gi\en oil this photostat, wlich reflects that 2401 Kraft AMr. was a member of the executive board. 
Mr. WiALTEr Proceed, Mr. 'lTa enner. Al1. TA\ ENXNEiR.The committee is also in possession of a letterhead bearing the date of ( )ctober 19i3: on which your name appears on the margin of the letterhead as a sponsor of the Holly\\wood Anti-Nazi League. Were yoo a sponsor of that oi ganization 
Mr. KiAFT. I dechne to an\ er on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. KrNiiNixY. Mri. Chairman, imayv I ask Mr. Tavenner thie date of thlie formation of the Anti-Nazi League ? I recollectloll i that itit as n 193l;. E, My
Mr. TA\'xx
Mr. WALTE'r. Ye". Alr. T \\ixNN. (Or 1937, about that date i AMr WA.irER. Wihen wah it Captured, ilo yol1 lelleierthat A r. T.xVEN.NER. The testiniony in our hearings was to the effect that V. .1. Jerome pila ed a part in it when lie went to Hollywood. buti s to the date, mny recollection is the date was between 193:6 and 1933, probably 1)93s. Ml. .JACKSON. o you want the citation, Mr. ('ha11 man WVALTER. Yes. AMr.
Mr. JACKSON. Hollywood Anti-Nazi League incorpor.ated on June 8, 1936, as the Hollywood League Agai is Naxisln. It hecimle the Holly- wood Anti-Nazi League in September 1986. The Stalin-Hitler pact brought this front to abrupt termination in August of 193:9 The Hollywood Motion Pictme I)eiocratic ('Cominttee \\is its sli'-issor. That is a citation of the California State Committee on Un-American T1 Activities.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other wold . AMr. Chalirlani, the \1tie,,s is sug- gested as being a member of this Anti-Nazi League prior to the Hitlerar. Stalin pact, and long before this country entered the xw Now, for my own personal information, I would like to know why does the gentleman refuse to answer whether liewa- a member of that organization ?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline because the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League has been cited as a subversive organization. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The Artists' Front to Win the War was organized October 16, 1942. You are listed as one of the sponsors under the heading of "Literature." Do you recall your membership in that organization?
Mr. KRAFT. Could I see that
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (Document handed to Mr. Kraft, and Mr. Kraft and his counsel consult the document.)
Mr. KAIrFT. I don't recall my memnbershiiip i this group.
Mr. TA'ENNER. Have you any explanation to give for the use of your name as a sponsor of the organization ?
Mr. KRAFTrr. I have no explanation, sir. AIr. Tr\ENNI'R. Did vou participate in anIy manner l I lle Nolk of the Artists' Front to Win the War?
Mr. KliAr\Fr. I in\e no kno ledge of an activity in connection w\ith the Artists' Front to Win the War. I cannot remember it specifically.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is also in possession of information that the New Masses of May 3, 1938, at page 19, contained thie illes 2402 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY of individuals upholding the Moscow trials, and purported to understand the real facts about this situation in the Soviet Union at that time. Among the signers appears the name of H. S. Kraft.
Mr. COHN. May we take a look at that, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. It appears that it has not been brought into the hearing, and I will proceed to another question and come back to that. Mir. COHN. Is it important to you? Can we get off the record ?
Mr. TAxENNER. It may be important to the witness in answering the question. That is my only point.
Mr. COHN. We would like to look at it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Surely, I think youi have that right. I will proceed to another matter. The committee has possession of a photostat.ic opy of the a: tile of incorporation of the Hollywood Comnmiity RPadio Grout. wwhich Ihas 1een described by the California Committee on I' n-Atierican Activities ass (ommuist-mspired and directed, and an organization whose imunediate objective was the establishment of a radio station in Los Angeles County. These articles of incorporation indicate that you were a member of the first board of dire tors of this aroup. You weie a member of the fist board of director s, were you not?
Mr. KRiT. I decline to answer on the previously stated grounds, sir.
Mr. TA\VENNER. I hand you a phl0tostatic copy of the certificate of incorporation and ask you whether or not sour name appears as a member of the first board of directors. (Document handed to Mr. Kraft, and Mr. Kraft and his counsel consult the document.)
Mr. KRAFT. The document, Mr Tavenner, speaks for itself, but I decline to answer any questions in connection with this.
Mr. T \VENNER. iButyour name does appear there, does it not?
Mr. KnAFrr Mv name does.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you have any knowledge of your name being used on that certificate of incorporation?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, General.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us the extent to which the Coniuunists controlled the formation of that organization 
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, sir.
Mr. TAN ENNER. Now I will return to the question that I asked you a few moments ao. I hand you now a photostatic copy of page 19 of the May 3. 1938. issue of New Masses where there appears an article entitled "The Mocow Tiials" and I will ask you to state whether or not you see your name im the right-hand column of that article. (Documelit handed to Mr. Kraft. and Mr. Kraft consults the document with his counsel.)
Mr. KRArr. My name does appear, Mr Tavenner, but I have no recollection of this matter. I think this is datedMr. TA VNNER 1938. 
Mr. KR\FT. 1938. I have no recollection. AMrTA.ENNI'-i. Well, now, the persons whose names appear in that article ale alleged to have approved, or to have upheld the Moscow t ials. Did you advocate or approve at any time the Moscow trials ?
Mr KRAinr. I decline to answer. M Tavenner. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2403 
Mr. TAVENNER. Does this serve to refresh your recollection regarding this particular article: We, the undersigned, are fully aware of the confusion that exists with regard to the Moscow trials, and the real facts about the situation in the Soviet Union. Now, did you have any knowledge about the real facts in the Soviet Union ?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, Mr. Tavenner. (Mr. Kraft confers with lus counsel.)
Mr. KRAFT. I never visited the Soviet.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have never been to Russia ?
Mr. KRAFT. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you answer my question?
Mr. KRAFT. I believe I did. I declined to answer the question as to whether I had the real facts. I think that was the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the letterhead of February 24, 1940, you were a sponsor of the Hollywood League for Democratic Action.
Mr. COHN. Is that one of the organizations on the list?
Mr. TAVENNER. It is. I will read the citation. The Hollywood League for Democratic Action appears in the guide to subversive organizations and publications issued by this committee. It appears in the following form: Cited as a Communist-front organization in which Communist individuals were "pulling the strings and setting the policy " It "was a continuation of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee after the invasion of Russia by Germany precipitated an abrupt chance in Soviet foreign police " It lasted until 1942 when it reorganized as the Hollywood Demociatic Committee. You recall my question, do you?
Mr. KRAFT. I wish you would repeat it, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you read the question? I will reframe the question to save time. I have before me a letterhead of the Hollywood League for Democratic Action dated February 24, 1940, and on the margin appears the list of sponsors, among whom is your name, or the name H. S. Kraft. That is your name, is it not, H. S. Kraft?
Mr. KRAFT. Yes, sir; the initials of my name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a sponsor of that organization? That is, as indicated by this letterhead?
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer, sir.
Mr. KEARN'EY. Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask a question.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Tavenner, these organizations are the ones that are listed as subversive by the Attorney General in the State of California?
Mr. TAVENNER. The citation in this particular instance was by the California Committee on Un-American Activities.
Mr. KEARNEY. If this organization were not listed as a subversive organization by the State of California, would your answer be different?
Mr. Con. Do you mind if we consult?
Mr. WALTER. Go ahead. (Mr. Kraft consults with his counsel.)
Mr. KRAFT. It is a difficult question. The fact of the matter is that the organization has been listed, and therefore, I decline to answer. 95829-52-pt. 7- 2404 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. KEARNEY. Let us assume that it were not listed as subversive; would your answer be different?
Mr. KRAft. I can't answer that question. I can't tell you the answer that I would give to that question.
Mr. KEARNEY. You mean you won't answer?
Mr. KRAFr. Sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. You mean you won't answer?
Mr. CoxN. Would you repeat the statement? I am sorry, we did not hear.
Mr. KEARNEY. You mean the witness won't answer the question.
Mr. COHN Won't.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other words, you. still stand on your original answer ?
Mr. KRAFT. It is a hypothetical question, and I must standMr. KEARNEY. I do not see anything hypothetical about it at all.
Mr. KRAFrr. I must stand on my original answer.
Mr. KEARNEY. That is what I assumed you would do.
Mr. TAVENNER. We find upon examination of the amicus curiae brief to the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of John Howard Lawson against the United States and Dalton Trumbo against the United States that you are listed on it. Now, this wasMr. COHN. It must have been some time in 1949, was it not?
Mr. TAVENNER. That was the October term, 1949, of the Supreme Court of the United States and was filed on the tenth day of September, 1949. We would like to know the circumstances under which you became a party to that proceeding.
Mr. KiAFr. Mr. Tavenner, in all honesty. I cannot remember the circumstances under which I became a party to this proceeding. But I certainly admit being a party to this proceeding, because I think the issue involved was one that the Court should have settled.
Mr. TAVENNER You have a perfect right, of course, and I am not attempting by innuendo to criticize you from becomin, a party to the proceeding in the form in which you did. But we air interested in the means used to obtain your participation, because you have stated to us that in 1949 you were not a member of the Coiumunist Party, and we are anxious to know to what extent any Communist Party influences weie brought to bear upon you to use your name in this connection.
Mr. KnaFT. I can only repeat that I don't remember the circumstances under which my name was obtained.
Mr. WAL'n-. Who asked you to become a party to these proceedings? M1r. KRAFT. I don't eiiieinber, sir.
Mr. WALrEn. 1949 this was. How much money did you contributee to the legal expenses involved in that appeal?
Mr. KarFT. As far as I can recall, sir, I contributed no money becauie in 1949 it was a very bad year for me. AlM. WALTER. Don't NOUriememiber wlio asked you whether or not your name could lie used in this brief?
Mr. K 'tr. I honestly don't, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with V. J. Jerome, COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2405 
Mr. KRAFT. I decline to answer on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. WALTER. Why? Why do you decline to answer the question as to whether or not you know somebody ?
Mr. KRAFT. AiMr.Jerome'., name and Mr. Jerome hinmelf has appeared before this committee. Air. WALTER. The mere fact that you knew him certainly does not mean anything. You cannot be convicted of anything because you happen to know somebody. I know a lot of Communists myself, and I admit that I know them. (Air. Kraft confers with his counsel.) Air. KRArFT. I stand on my right- in regard to this question.
Mr. WALTER. All right. Mr. Tavenner, is there any reason why we should go on I This witness certainly is not going to assist this committee.
Mr. Kraft, Martin Berkeley, who was a member of the Communist Party, felt that lie was in error when lie aided and assisted in this conspiracy and came forward and assisted this committee tremendously in its work. We had hoped that you would do the same thing, because we know that you were a member of the Communist Party, and we hoped when we subpoenaed you down here that you would assist tlhi committee in shownig the machinations of this (Communist crowd that you were connected with. In view of the fact tliat you are not going to assist, I do not see any reason why we should wate our tune in asking questions when wo know the witness is not going to answer them.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is quite obvious, Air. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will be adjourned.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman. I can agree with the chairman for his reasons, but personally I think the answers given by the witness have been very enlightening. But I do believe that the witness should be instructed by the chairman to hold himself in readine-s for further questioning. MIr. WALTER. I do not think that is necessary. We know where he is,and if lie ever has a change of heart, and, Air. Kraft, if you ever feel that you would like to make a slight contribution to the security of your Nation during these troubled times, we will give you every opportunity that you seek to come down here. And if we feel there is anything we want to know we will know where you are, and we will subpena you again. I do not see any reason why the witness should not be excused.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you still believe in the philosophy of the Communist Party AMr. KRAFT. I do not.
Mr. WALTER. The committee is adjourned. (Whereupon, at 11: 30 a. m., the subcommittee was recessed subject to the call of the chairman.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 7 THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1952 ' UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITrEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. EXECUTIVE HEARING A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met at 4: 25 p. in., in room 330, Old House Office Building, Hon. Francis E. Walter, presiding. Committee member present: Representative Francis E. Walter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; and Raphael I. Nixon, director of research. TESTIMONY OF ELIA KAZAN 