Miss MORLEY. Karen Morley is my professional name.
Mr. WALTER. I think the record should show that Miss Morley is represented by counsel, Mr. Marcantonio. Will you give your address, Mr. Marcantonio ?
Mr. MARCANTONIO. 11 Park Place, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Karen Morley is your professional name?
Miss MORLEY. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your legal name ?
Miss MORLEY. Mildred Vidor, V-i-d-o-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your maiden name ?
Miss MORLEY. Linton, L-i-n-t-o-n. 4503 45')4 COMMlUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you born ?
Miss MORLEY. Ottumwa, Iowa.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will vyo state for tle commllittee briefly what your educational training has been?
Miss MoRLEY. Yes. I attended grammar c liool and the first year of high school.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where?
Miss MORLEY. In Ottumwa. 
Mr. TAVEXNER. Will you spell the name, please?
Miss MORLEY. O-t-t-u-m-w-a. I finished high school in Hollywood, and I spent a year at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you go to Hollywood?
Miss MORLEY. In 1924.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession ?
Miss MORLEY. I am an actress.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly what your experience has been as an actress; that is, how you have been employed, and where?
Miss MORLEY. The majority of my employment has been in the -tudios in Hollywood, first as a contract player at Metro, and then as a free-lance player in Hollywood, and I have done some radio and some theater, and I traveled with the USO during the war, overseas.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, will you give us the date when you first began your career in Hollywood?
Miss MORLEY. About 1930, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you said you later became a free-lance actress? I was under contract to Metro for 4 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What years were they?
Miss MORLEY. I think 1931 to 1935. I could be a year off there, I haven't checked it for such a long time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that the time, in 1935, when you began freelance acting?
Miss MORLEY. Yes. 
Miss MORLEY. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. During the time you were acting for Metro, what were the principal screen credits that you received?
Miss MORLEY. Well, Inspiration was the first picture I made at Metro. Black Fury, I was loaned from Metro to make; and this was t rue also of Scarface. I made a picture called Washington Masquerade. I made a picture called Arsene Lupin. There were really quite a lot of them and, if I ilal thought you wanted to know, I could have brought some in. AER. lMr. TAVENNER. ust in a general way. Did you pl a y a featured role in a picture called M?
Miss MORLEY. Yes; a small part.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who the director of that picture was? (The witness conferred with her counsel.) IMr. MARCANTONIO. Wlat was the question again? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked if she recalled who was the director of that picture.
Miss MORLEY. Yes. rected M. It is a matter of record that Mr. Losey di- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name, please'? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4505 
Miss MORLEY. I think it is L-o-s-e-y.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall his first name?
Miss MORLEY. Joe, I guess. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Joseph Losey has been identified by Mr .Leo Townsend as having been a director who was a member of the Communist Party cell in Hollywood with which he himself had been associated or affiliated. Do you know anything of the Communist Party membership of Joseph Losey ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. Well, I claim my privilege under the fifth amendment not to answer that question, since the fifth amendment permits me not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that your career began in Hollywood in 1935. Where did you reside at that time ?
Miss MORLEY. Westwood, although the street number and name escapes me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Westwood was the name of the street ?
Miss MORLEY. Westwood is a part of Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you live at the same place while you were working for Metro in 1931 to 1935, approximately? 
Miss MORLEY. NO. I lived several places.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you live between 1931 and 1935 ?
Miss MORLEY. I can't remember. I moved from the Westwood house to Palos Verdes. That is a little community on the coast near San Pedro, and I lived in a house called Portuguese Point.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you live there ?
Miss MORLEY. About a year.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you move from there ?
Miss MORLEY. To a house in Brentwood.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long, approximately, did you live there ?
Miss MORLEY. A year.
Mr. TAVENNER. That brings you up to about
Miss MORLEY. I guess that brings me up what year ? to about 1935. I just haven't thought of these addresses for such a long time I could be inaccurate by a few months, at least.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you embarked upon your work as a free- lance actress, did you remain in Hollywood, or did you go to other parts of the country ? 
Miss MORLEY. I lived in Hollywood most of the time, although I did spend some time in New York and I did travel to Europe.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what year did you travel to Europe?
Miss MORLEY. In 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return to Hollywood after your trip to Europe? 
Miss MORLEY. It was either at the end of 1937 or earlv in 1938. 
Mr. TAVENNE. time ? How long did you remain in Hollywood at that 
Miss MORLEY. Until about 1940, at which time I went to New York, where I lived for about 4 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then did you return to Hollywood in 1944? 
Miss MORLEY. Well, I traveled back and forth between the two coasts qlite a lot. 4506 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY
Mr. TAVENNER. When you stated you remained in New York for about 4 years after arriving there in 1940, that indicated that in 1944 you moved to some other place.
Miss MORLEY. I did return to California for a while, and then I went overseas for the summer of 1945, and then I went back to California in the winter of 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you went to California in 1944, on leaving New York, where did you reside ?
Miss MORLEY. In an apartment at Beverly Hills.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the address?
Miss MORLEY. It was on Peck Drive, I believe. I am sorry to be so vague about this, and if I had known you wanted it I could have done some research on it. I travel a great deal.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am only asking for your best recollection.
Mr. MARCANTONIO. If the committee desires, we will be happy to submit a list to you where she resided at the various periods.
Mr. TAVENNER. We may ask for that before we finish. Do you recall the street address?
Miss MORLEY. No; I really don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you say you lived on Peck Drive, would the address have been Peck Drive, or would it have been some street off of Peck Drive?
Miss MORLEY. NO; that was the name of the street, and I just don't remember the apartment number.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you live there ?
Miss MORLEY. Some months.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your next address in Los Angeles or in Hollywood ?
Miss MORLEY. I believe- (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I think it was shortly after that that I bought a house in Laurel Canyon; I believe it was that one.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the address?
Miss MORLEY. 2723 Laurel Canyon.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us that again ?
Miss MORLEY. 2723 Laurel Canyon Boulevard.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you live at any time at 727 North La Jolla Street? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. Yes; that is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you living at that address?
Miss MORLEY. That must have been early in 1945, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you live there ?
Miss MORLEY. A few months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you live there before you lived at Peck Drive, or after you lived at Peck Drive ?
Miss MORLEY. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it a private home or an apartment house?
Miss MORLEY. It is an apartment house, two-family apartment house.
Mr. TAVENNER. You said at first it was a private home.
Miss MORLEY. It is a two-family apartment house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Two-family apartment house?
Miss MORLEY. Yes. 1 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4507 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you live with another family there?
Miss MORLEY. Yes. I 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the family ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer this under my privilege of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. A person by the name of Bonnie, B-o-n-n-i-e, Claire, C-l-a-i-r-e, lived at that address ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. It is the same answer, Mr. Tavenner. I claim my privilege under the fifth amendment not to answer this question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, aside from the name of the family or the persons who lived at that same address, were you accustomed, in addressing letters, to give your address as being in care of a person living at that house?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer this question on the same grounds,
Mr. Tavenner-my privilege of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you live or reside at 2723 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, which I believe you stated was the location of the home which you purchased ?
Miss MORLEY. Yes. I have lived there intermittently since I bought it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by "intermittently"?
Miss MORLEY. Because I travel a great deal, and I lived in the East some of the time. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, were you living there in 1951? (The witness conferred with her counsel.) 
Miss MORLEY. Only the very, very beginning of 1951, up to the beginning of 1951 I was there.
Mr. TAVENNER. What date was it in the very beginning of 1951 when you left that address ? 
Miss MORLEY. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall the month ?
Miss MoRLEY. I think it would be around the end of January, I believe. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When you left there, where did you go ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. What was the question ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. My question was: When you left the address of 2723 Laurel Canyon Boulevard in early 1951, where did you move to?
Miss MORLEY. I had a vacation in the desert at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where ? 
Miss MORLEY. Of California.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, the desert is a rather large place. the desert? Where in 
Miss MORLEY. It was between Indio and Palm Springs.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the place where you took your vacation ? 
Miss MORLEY. A little community called La Quinta.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain there ?
Miss MORLEY. I was there until the weather got quite hot.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
Miss MORLEY. About June. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Since June, where have you lived ? 4508 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Miss MORLEY. I have been living in New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. The entire time?
Miss MORLEY. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been out of the country since the beginning of 1951?
Miss MORLEY. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you to reflect a moment and see if you were not living at the address of 2723 Laurel Canyon Boulevard as late as the 26th day of February 1951? Let me read to you-you shook your head, but the reporter can't get that in the record. If you mean no, say so.
Miss MORLEY. I don't know the date, but I am pretty sure I wasn't there at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly this will refresh your recollection. I am reading from the testimony of an investigator of the committee, Mr. Wheeler, who endeavored to serve certain subpenas in the Hollywood area in early 1951. His testimony is as follows: The next individual is Miss Karen Morley, an actress who resides at 2723 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, Hollywood, Calif. The home of Miss Morley was first visited during the week of February 26, 1951. In response to the ringing of the doorbell, an individual, also an actor, named Lloyd Gough (G-o-u-g-h), came to the door, and we talked to him regarding Miss Morley. He stated that she would be back later and to call later the same day. We did, and we called back on various occasions during our period there and found absolutely no one at home. Does that refresh your recollection? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall Mr. Lloyd Gough mentioning to you that an investigator from this committee had called at your home? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. No; I don't recall that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Miss Morley, during the course of the investigation which the committee has conducted into Communist Party activities in the entertainment field, particularly in the field of the movingpicture industry, various witnesses have had something to say with regard to you. I want to read you their testimony, and if their tes- timony is true you should be in a position to be of valuable assistance to this committee in advising us about the matters that are the subject of inquiry. The first witness is Mr. Sterling Hayden, who appeared as a wit- ness before the committee on April 10. 1951. Mr. Hayden had testified that he was a member of a Communist Party cell, not in the Actors' Guild but among workers in Hollywood. He testified that he had been directed to contact the Screen Actors' Guild and do what he could to bring members of that guild into a position where they could help the Conference of Studio Unions. He testified that he attended meetings of that group. And then I asked him who, of the group that he met with, were members of the Communist Party, to his knowledge, and the questions and answers arose this way: QUESTIONER. Are there any of that group whom you can identify as members of the Communist Party, to your knowledge? I am not asking you for names of people generally who were with you in this project, unless they were known to you to be members of the Communist Party. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4509 
Mr. HAYDEN. I understand. I wouldn't hesitate to say Karen Morley, iinasmuch as in 1947, a long time after I had completely severed any and all connections with any form of Communist activities or endeavor, she came to me and asked me to come back. So, I certainly think it is safe to assume that she wa ; a * * member. * QUESTIONER. Did that group narrow down to a comparatively few who actually functioned ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I would say there was a nucleus that would attend meetings more regularly. When there were gatherings to see what could be done, there were certain people who would appear more regularly. There were people on the periphery, on the edge, who would be there sometimes; and other people wero there more regularly. QUESTIONER.
Mr. HAYDEN. QUESTIONER.
Mr. HAYDEN. How frequently did you meet to work on that enterprise? I would say once or twice a week. Did Karen Morley meet with you? Yes. Where were these meetings held?
Mr. HAYDEN. Some were held at Karen Morley's house. Some were held at a house owned by a man named Morris Carnovsky, who, I might say, was never present. And others were held at homes which I only knew at that time by address. QUESTIONER. Further questions were asked regarding the request that you were alleged by Mr. Hayden to have made to him. This question was asked: You have indicated that, after your relationship with the Communist Party was severed, Karen Morley came to you and asked you to come back into the party.
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. QUESTIONER. Will you give the committee the entire transaction as it occurred ?
Mr. HAYDEN. She came to our house. I had remarried in June of that year. She came to our house, I believe, right after or before the Committee for the First Amendment was formed. She came and said she wanted me to consider coming back in, and I said: "There is nothing to be considered. This is it. There is nothing to discuss" and so forth and so on. As she left the house I took her out to the front hall, and she said: "I hope you realize that, having made that decision, it will be extremely hard for you to ever get back in." And I said: "Nothing will please me more." That ended it. Did you have that conversation with Mr. Hayden, and is there any statement in his testimony that is untrue?
Mr. MARCANTONIO. There are two questions there in one. Let us have one at a time.
Mr. WALTER. It should be divided, I think. Let me see the book, please. (The book referred to was handed to Mr. Walter.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have the conversation with Mr. Hayden according to his testimony ?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment that I need not testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. On the 18th day of September 1951, Mr. Leo Townsend was a witness before the committee. Mr. Townsend testified as to persons in Hollywood who were members of the Communist Party cell with him. His testimony was as follows-in naming certain individuals he said: There were Paul and Sylvia Jarrico, J-a-r-r-i-c-o; there was Joseph Losey. L-o-s-e-y. QUESTION. Will you identify him further, please. ANSWER. He is a film director.' QUESTION. A film director? ANSWER. Yes; and his wife Louise Losey. $he may well be out of the party at this time. He may be, too; I don't know. I hope they have a chance to state . ,. . , 4510 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY their position if they are. There was a writer named Ben Bengal, B-e-n-g-a-l, and an actress named Karen Morley. These are the names that I remember as members of those various branches. He had named other persons in advance. Question. Do you know where Karen Morley is now ? Answer. No, sir; I do not. Is the testimony of Mr. Townsend, insofar as it relates to you, true; or is it false?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my rights under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. In our last hearing in Hollywood, Mr. Paul Marion testified, and this was on October 2, 1952. Mr. Marion had testified that he had been a member of a group of the Communist Party organized within radio. In the course of his testimony, he testified as follows-lhe also had been testifying with regard to the work of the Conference of Studio Unions. His testimony follows: Now, in order to get meetings, there had to be petitions with names of about 350, I think, so that the meetings could be called, and we only had one meeting a year in the Screen Actors' Guild. Now, we went out, this group went out and got these meetings together, and before one of the big meetings in which very important people were invited to speak for the side that was for the Conference of Studio Unions, we had a meeting-and I will say that a great many people were for the Conference of Studio Unions emotionally without knowing much of the background. I did not know anything of the background, either, but I went along. There was a meeting held before this big meeting, where tactics and strategy were to be discussed in relation to that meeting, and this meeting was held at Alvin Hammer's house. This was a meeting that was a closed Communist meeting. At this meeting, the strategy and tactics were discussed, and we were helped by a man by the name of Ben Margolis, who was there at the time, besides Karen Morley and Lloyd Gough. Was Mr. Paul Marion's testimony true or false with reference to your participation in the closed Communist Party meeting to which he referred ?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Another witness, by the name of Marc Lawrence, testified before the committee on April 12, 1951. This question was asked: Can you give us the names of those who were members with you in this cell within the Actors' Lab?
Mr. LAWRENCE. Well, there was J. Bromberg, J. Edward Bromberg, the man I mentioned before. There was Karen Morley. I don't know whether she was connected directly with the lab. I went to a meeting at her house. There was Morris Carnovsky. Were you at any time a member of the Communist Party cell of which Marc Lawrence was a member ?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated you returned from Hollywood to New York in 1940, and that you were there for about 4 years. What was the nature of your employment during that 4-year period ?
Miss MORLEY. I was in four unsuccessful plays during that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you engage in any other activities in addi- tion to the work with the four plays that you have mentioned? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4511 (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. MARCANTONIO. When you say "activities," in order for the wit- ness to be specific in her answer or decide on what to answer, I think the question ought to be a little bit more specific; and what do you mean by "other activities"?
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you engaged in any other line of work ?
Mr. MARCANTONIO. Besides acting, you mean ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Miss MORLEY. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you do any work in organizing-labor organizing? (The witness conferred with her counsel.) 
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with a newspaper known as the Pacific Coast Shipyard Worker, which is the official organ of Local 9 of the International Union of Marine and Shipyard Workers of America? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. I regret I don't have the issue of December 30, 1943, of that paper, but I have reliable information that it contains an article reported by the Federated Press under a New York dateline, which reflects that Karen Morley had found union organizing more exciting than acting, and thought that unions should make better use of the movies as an educational and organizational weapon. And then you were quoted as saying that everyone in the country goes to the movies, and that they are too important to be left in Hollywood; that the unions should step in and start making pictures.
Mr. MAROANTONIO. What is the question, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, does that refresh your recollection to a point where you can tell us what activities you were engaged in at that time in using the movies or using short films as an organizational weapon in behalf of labor (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I do not mean to infer there is anything wrong about using films for the assistance of labor.
Miss MORLEY. I understand that. (The witness conferred with her counsel.) 
Miss MORLEY. In 1944, I used what influence I could to get the United Automobile Workers to make a film on the Roosevelt campaign, and they did make a cartoon.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, your work was not confined merely to that one effort; was it?
Miss MORLEY. That is the only movie, in whose production I had any part, that was made for a labor union.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, but were you active in that field in endeavor- ing to develop just what this newspaper article alleged you were interested in, that is, to make better use of the movies as an educational and organization weapon in behalf of organizing unions?
Miss MORLEY. Yes, I tried very hard to convince the national CIO Board that it should make motion pictures for the benefit of labor. Unfortunately, nothing came of these plans, that is, concretely, ex- 4512 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY cept the cartoon which was made by the UAW; and later the UAW made another cartoon called Brotherhood of Man, made from a book called Races of Mankind. But I was not directly connected with that. I would like to take credit for it, but I am afraid I can't.
Mr. VELDE. Who did write the script for that picture, Miss Morley 
Miss MORLEY. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then did you follow that up by working for the same general principles in radio that you had worked for in movies?
Miss MORLEY. I have always, or at least for a number of years, spoken in favor of the use of radio and film and television by the unions to strengthen the labor movement, that is true. Unfortunately, very little comes of this.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you endeavored to organize work of that char- acter in radio, did you not? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. MARCANTONIO. Will you explain just what you mean by "organize"?
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you work on scripts that you proposed or hoped would be used in radio to carry out your views and the plan that you just talked about ?
Miss MORLEY. I would say "No," except in a most rough kind of out- line suggestions. Certainly not anything like a finished script. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you consult other people about the script, and obtain the assistance of others in the preparation of it?
Miss MORLEY. No, I would say that the kind of work that I was suggesting that the unions should do was pretty much what I thought of. They were pretty much my ideas, and I was not working in any concerted way.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you consult John Howard Lawson or pre- sent a script of a proposed film to John Howard Lawson for him to review? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. No, I did not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever consult Lou Harris or Paul Jarrico, or obtain their assistance in any way in the preparation of scripts for this purpose ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I don't remember conferring with the people you have mentioned on any script which I recommended to any union to be made.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I am not asking you to limit it to just merely scripts which you recommended be made, but did you have their assistance in work on any script, whether it was recommended or not? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I don't think so; no. I don't remember of any such script. You see, the kind of thing that I am interested in seeing unions do is in such a formative stage that' it is nowhere near the script stage. You see, I have gone a number of times to trade-union leaders and talked to, them about the sort. of script that could be . ,written.Mr. TAVENNER. And my inquiry is:,To what, extent has the Com- munist Party taken any part, or members of the Conimn.nist.Party, in promoting the thing that you are interested *in COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4513 -Miss MORLEY. Well, I couldn't answer you that questions Mr. Tav- enner. I would claim my right under the fifth amendment not to answer and not to incriminate myself and not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you connected in any way with the United Productions of America as a part owner or in any other way? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you tell the committee whether or not the United Productions of America was connected with or was a unit of the People's Educational Association ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Which was also known as the People's Educational Center of Los Angeles ?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time attended a meeting of the radio cultural division of the Hollywood section of the Los Angeles County Communist Party ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. We would like to show you a photostatic copy of a program issued by the Artists' Front to Win the War, and will you look at page 4 of the exhibit and state whether or not your name appears there as one of the sponsors ? (The document referred to was handed to the witness.) The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I think that it should be at page 4.
Mr. MARCANTONIO. What is the question again, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Does your name appear there as a sponsor?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer your question, Mr. Tavenner, under my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked as "Morley Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. WALTER. It is so ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 1," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a copy of a letterhead, a photostatic copy of a letterhead of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, dated October 24, 1945. Will you look at the second page, which is a photostatic copy of the back of the original letterhead, and state whether or not your name appears there? (The letterhead referred to was handed to the witness.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Does your name appear as a sponsor I
Miss MoRLEY. I refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment. -.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask it be marked as "Morley Exhibit No. 2."
Mr. WALTER. It is so ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 2," is filed herewith.) 4514 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of page 4 of the Daily People's World of October 3, 1947. In the third column there is a news item regarding an All States Tea given by the National Negro Congress. According to the article, you were one of the stars scheduled to appear on that occasion. Did you appear at this tea ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask it to be marked as "Morley Exhibit No. 3."
Mr. WALTER. It is so ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 3," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of two pages from a schedule of classes of the People's Educational Center for the 1947 winter term. Will you look at the second page and state whether or not your name appears, with Ben Barzman and Arnold Manoff, to lecture on the motion picture Illusion and Reality ?
Miss MORLET. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence, and ask it to be marked "Morley Exhibit No. 4."
Mr. WALTER. It is so ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 4," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you conduct a course in the People's Educational Association in 1945? Were you a teacher in that school in 1945?
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you lecture at the People's Educational Center at any time?
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer your question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of page 15 of the Hollywood Reporter of November 3, 1947, and it is a full-page advertisement contributed by the actors' division of the Progressive Citizens of America. Will you examine the exhibit and state whether or not your name appears there as a person having signed the statement contained in the advertisement?
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answerMr. MARCANTONIO. Wait a minute.
Miss MORLEY. Excuse me. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence and ask it to be marked "Morley Exhibit No. 5."
Mr. WALTER. It is SO ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 5," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the Daily People's World of January 8, 1951. - On page lOis a news item concerning letter approved by the Arts, Sciences, and Professional Council. According to this news item COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4515 the letter was presented by Karen Morley, and charged that the McCarran Act 1 was unconstitutional. The letter also demands amnesty for all political prisoners, citizens and foreign-born, jailed under the S McCarran Act. Did you present the letter which was attributed to you ? (The document referred to was handed to the witness.) (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the letter in evidence, and ask it to be marked "Morley Exhibit No. 6."
Mr. WALTER. It is SO ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 6," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the March 15, 1951, issue of the Daily Worker. Beginning on page 5 and carried over to page 8 there is an article containing the names of sponsors of the American Peace Crusade.
Mr. WALTER. What is the date of that ?
Mr. BEALE. March 15, 1951.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you look at page 8 and state whether or not your name appears thereon as a sponsor ? (The document referred to was handed to the witness.)
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence, and ask it to be marked as "Morley Exhibit No. 7."
Mr. WArTER. It is so ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 7," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a call to the American People's Congress and Exposition for Peace, held in Chicago, June 29, 30, and July 1, 1951. Will you examine the exhibit and state if your name appears thereon as a sponsor? (The document referred to was handed to the witness.) (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence and ask it to be marked "Morley Exhibit No. 8."
Mr. WALTER. It is SO ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 8," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the September 25, 1952, issue of the Daily Worker. On page 3 is a news item stating that Karen Morley will read letters from Korea to the New York Peace Meeting to be held that night at the City Center Casino. Did you read letters from Korea as it was indicated you would in that article ? (The document referred to was handed to the witness.) (The witness conferred with her counsel.) SInternal Security Act of 1950, Public Law 831, 81st Cong., 2d sess. 4516 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTrUI E INDUSTRY 
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive letters to be read on that occasion; and if so; from whom did you receive them
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that, Mr. Tavenner, on the same grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence and ask it to be marked "Morley Exhibit No. 9."
Mr. WALTER. It is so ordered. (The document above referred to. marked "Morley Exhibit No. 9,' is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you the Daily People's World of Tuesday, October 24, 1950. On page 12 appears a news item concerning the delegation that called on the district director of immigration at Los Angeles, protesting arrests under the McCarran Act.2 Will you examine the exhibit and state whether or not you were a member of the delegation, as indicated in the exhibit? (The document referred to was handed to the witness.) (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer, Mr. Tavenner, alnd invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVE:NNER. I offer the document in evidence, and ask it to be marked as 'Morley Exhibit No. 10."
Mr. WALTER. It is so ordered. (The document above referred to, marked "Morley Exhibit No. 10," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you participate in a picketing of it, in front of the Immigration and Naturalization Service offices at 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles, on September 26, 1950? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the picketing sponsored by the Los Angeles Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born?
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer your question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Abraham Lincoln Polonsky ?
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that question. Mr. TavennerMr. T.AVENNER. Did you ever attend a meeting in his home-excuse me. I didn't mean to cut you off.
Miss MORLEY. You know it by heart now, I am sure. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever attend a meeting in his home?
Miss MORLEY. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. WALTER. Who is the individual, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Polonsky appeared as a witness before the committee, but refused to answer any material questions; and he had been identified by a number of witnesses as having been a member of 2 Ibid. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4517' the Communist Party, and he was very prominent in Hollywood (luring the time he was there. At one time he had been an employee of the-I think I should only say of a Government agency, and I have forgotten what branch it was,- and I think it was connected with labor. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. While in New York, did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Inez Garson? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss MORLEY. To-the best of my knowledge, no.
Mr. TAVENNER. She was executive secretary of the cultural branch of the Communist Party in New York, and would that refresh yourrecollection ? I 
Mr. MARCANTONIO. The answer is "No."
Mr. BEALE. Let her answer. 
Mr. WALTER. That is all right.
Mr. MARCANTONIO. She shook her head, and that was obvious to tle whole committee.
Miss MORLEY. NO.
Mr. TAVENNER. Branch Y of the Communist Party was said to have been a group made up of persons transferred there from other sections of the country before assignment to a particular branch. and also for members who were regarded as out-of-town members. Were you ever a member of branch Y of the Communist Party in Los Angeles? S Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that, AMr. Tavenner, alnd invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a member, after 1944, of branch F of the Communist Party ?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of the northwest section of the Communist Party ?
Miss MORLEY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds that it might incriminate me, and I invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been affiliated with the Communist Party in New York and Los Angeles, or at any other place, at any time ?
Miss MoRLEY. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, and invoke my privilege under the fifth amendment not to testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Any questions, Mr. Frazier
Mr. FRAZIER. I have no questions.
Mr. WALTFR. Mr. Velde?
Mr. VEIDE. I have no questions. 
Mr. WALTER. If there are no questions, the witness nmay be excused from further attendance. Is there anything further, Mr. Tavenner ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir.
Mr. WALTER. T he hearing is now adjourned. (Whereupon, at 12 o'clock noon, the hearing was;aLd 1)urned.) 