Mr. IInitNoox. Yes. ir. I'AvNNxM. I asked yot to name the persons that you could positively identify. Mit. 1lrnNnox. And I named an instructor at Caltech, and I said he was Sidney Weinberg, which was itslip of the tongue. I meant to say Sidney Weinbaum, We-i-n-b-a-u-m. Afr. TAVEN.1NN . Do you think you identify the photograph of Sidney Weinlhain, if you saw it?
Mr. IHERNItND. I think so. I hanttd you a photograph, and I ask that it be marked and I offer It in evidence as Exhibit No. 1. 
Mr. TAI'ENNFR. 
Mr. CLAmY. Hlerndon Exhibit No. 1
Mr.TAVENNER. Herndon Exhibit 1.
Mr. CLARDY. It will be received. (The photograph referred to was marked "Herndon Exhibit No. 1," and was received in evidence.)
Mr. TAvENctnt. Will you examine it and state whose photograph it is?
Mr. HERNtooN. That is a photograph of the mail I knew as Sidney Weinbaum. 522 OMMUZOST' AMVoIrr1s 'IN THE 1O08 ANGELES 'AREA ' Mr. TAVzNNi I want to call to your attention one further excerpt from the article written by Richard Frank and entitled "The School and the People's Front," which appeared in the Communist of May 1937. This statement was made: To enable the teachers and the party to do the latter-- and by "latter" was meant to furnish to the students working class education. the party must take careful steps to see that all teacher comrades are given thorough education in tle teachings of Marxism and Leninism. Did you consider that instruction was being carried out in your tell that you were being given teachings in Marxism and Leninism? M~r. HERNDON. I considered tlat that was a party ideal. I do not think that in my time in the party it was thoroughly carried out.
Mr. TAVENNEIt, And continuing to read.: Only when teachers have really mastered Marxism and Leninism will they be able skillfully to inject it Into their teachings at the least risk of exposure, and at the same time to conduct struggles around the schools in a truly Bolshevik manner. Such teachers can also be used to advantage to conduct classes in Marxism, Leninism, for workers generally, and many such teachers should be assigned not to school units, but to factory or Industrial units where they can have great aid In party education, In helping with leaflets, shop papers, and so forth. Others can play an important role In the educational activities of the Young Communist League. Now, I have during the course of your testimony asked you various questions to indicate to what extent those very objectives were being carried out or fostered in your group. If you have anything further to say about it, I will be glad to hear it.
Mr. H nDoN. That is the Communist of May 1937?
Mr. TAvENNER. Yes; 
Mr. HERNDON. Well, I joined late in the fall of 1937, and at that time, as I said this mornmg, the policy of the party was to keep the teachers in a teacher unit, for instance, and not put them out one by one, scatter them out in shop and factory unit.
Mr. TAvNNER. I find, also, this interesting paragraph in Mr. Frank's article: . In rural communities teachers who are among the few educated people are looked up to with tremendous respect, they are in a position to become community leaders. As a means of mobilizing the people In the villages and the countryside, steps should be taken to try to send Communist teachers Into rural com. inunities where they should become active in all community organizations.
Mr. HEnwoN. May I say something on that?
Mr. TAvENiaR. Yes, sir. 
Mr. HERNDoN. It sounds as if it might be a translation from-that doesn't sound like an American rural community to me. It sounds like a translation from something written for some other country.
Mr. TAvExNn. Well, that was contained in the article appearing in the Communist of May 1937, entitled "The Schools and the peoples Front" by Richard Frank, who, as I have stated before was a member of the education committee of the Young Communist League.
Mr. HnsiXoi. Of the United StatesI 
Mr. TAYvNNERt. Of the United States. That apparently is one of the basic and -that indicates something of the basic and underlying policies of the Communist Party, and-of course we are COBMNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA 523 interested to know how or to what extent it was translated into the activities of your particular group, if at all.
Mr, HENDON. I work in a rather highly literate community in which a good niany people think they are just as smart as the teachers, so I donPt think there was too much application in my particular case, nor in the case of the teachers unit in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAvENNER. You saw no indication of any planned effort to be certain that the teachers who went into the ru'al areas were Communist teachers?
Mr. HERNDOO. I had no contact with teachers in rural areas.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, near the close of the morning session a state. ment was made and a statement was also read Into the record regardihg the attitude of the president of Rutgers University on the general subject of Communist activities aniong teachers, w ow, when you received your subponm to appear before this committee, did you report It to your superiors?
Mr. HEiRN. I reported it to the president of the board of education. In fact, I had spoken to him told him that I might, I thought, receive a subpena, before I received it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What; was the general attitude of your superiors as to your appearance here and your divulgence of the fact that you had formerly been a member of the party?
Mr. HEINDON. Well, I shoul say that their first concern probably was-I am inferring this-that their first concern probably was the welfare of the school system as a whole. I think that was their first concern.
Mr. TAVENNER. Speak a little louder, please.
Mr. HERNDON. Aside from that, the school board was interested in knowing when I joined the party, how long I had been in the party, why I had gotten in in the first place, and why I had gotten out. I think that is about the substance.
Mr. TAvENNER. And did you make a full disclosure to them of what your prior activities had been
Mr. H-INDOX. I did. I made a statement for them and answered to the best of my ability any questions they had.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result of your good faith in coming forward and telling what you know or being willing to tell what you know about the Communist Party, I understand your position with your teaching institution is satisfactory ?
Mr. HEnNDON. The administration has been helpful and friendly.
Mr. ScJERER. I think the committee would feel that the administration should be helpful and friendly, and not invoke any sanctions of any kind whatsoever against the professor.
Mr. TAvENNEr. As the members of the committee well know, that has been the way in which this type of information has been received and acted upon by a number of other institutions. Smith College is one that I have in mind.
Mr. ScHERER. yes, sir. I think we would even recommend that, if it was in our province to do so in this instance, don't you, Mr. Clardy?
Mr. CP.AnDr. Definitely.
Mr. TAvENNER. In other words, a citizen's effort to be truthful and fair in a serious matter of this kind is a patriotic duty.
Mr. CLARDY. That is the way every member of the committee regards it Mr. Counsel, and I want to express that to you, Mr. Witness, 824 COMMUNIST ACYVIVITIII IN-INA~A01 -ANGWhM AM~A lbecallm we want. to elleoli'iige,people like, yourself who luwoeimitt'd tholimeiy'O ouit of tho, false' luoNiton whiki tiey iitially took and hay. rteachetI the jN)Nit-oyii ~~hI yo 1m ritel~iel, 'Volt iitiieiSt~uI what (1oi111i111itiii 'etily w(Iild miiti to 114t Iin 'iitr.~ I tihilk you 141A%1doig it 3iiti'ot 10 N'i'Vk'I, IIIIIl I til, 11li1t. n141t only 141yolu, m throith you, it) ill thot wVlo, like yoiii'se1f, would like to1 ii ho01101111i1 agt'd Into thatl attitilde.
Mr. TIAVR~NWIIt. h'. (lInIII-III, I~t. it 1-11t1hea' genlerill filet, thalit. ill, whell it Witnec'm testily's Illd by 111H testimony yoll (lill o)h)serVoi the ('liili'11tiott and t.'itWItiUiIw hwolid (4)lilitee *volltht I&. i Ht400tt'Iuii~ 11141 ti'uitIfIIIl, will thalt theoy Ill'e tiutide I gool f1i11t1, Cliait that.4 one or t II 111imt'e eollid(wrI't biot 2Mu. ('?iAiti). 000init0lY, aund I thlinuk w-e hNveIl osm'i'-ed it votsid. ertuil difference lietweeit tiose, whlio toolnwato 0on f isl toiuit'. Air. $okuiftu-. Ilhk*%who don't 111(l1(1114%' touts4, 1Ijiiu 01111)t tiloypore Mill paruit of that ('0irliiUo' hit. (*. 'IublV. TI'1ui0. ISIit tutuIIIl ('011011411011, Mi.1% u'e Mu'. Su'iuuuiaut. You don't halve, to hW stuarlt Io comute, to(h4t)'iihtsot
Mr. Seuiun. 'Jlitat INfle~ reason I caine to It. Mi' 'AM'NNXR. I belieVO, Mri. 11lerndonl, that that.t C'overs eveu-ythiing that, I had intendedi to ask you. sIust. it minted. Tlhei 'oiilti maly have siothing. Air. (7uAioy. Mir. Sehierer, do you havo' soolut qiestiouis? All'. SCIwUNu. No, I jave 1no queiuts11. I COVere0d titein thigh 11ornin11g. hit'. CL.ARD'Y. Mft. I-ruidon, to tPV to tln111W togetliet- 80oni0 Of 111 loomt threads bore, andi more or hum' pauut. the )ketii' in its entirety with a few brush strokes, and bearing litnmind the thlings that, were mitd to you thiis morning by mty colleague Mi'e. $'hie ro, frion the president.of Rutgers, I would liketo askyoutiis: Don't you think that thl recruil ig of eaechers into t he Comntinist Party appmahw dw oos proseuut all epecial thrl-Pit bi'i'tso of tlo positiont that. the teachers occupy and the retspect, tlint. they have in the community. atud tint almost.* uneulied opportunity fori them both Withiit slid Without the school to Insidiously spread the doctrine without appearing to do so. it other words, following out your testfntony, to do it without betraying themsutlves-1005 tat, to re. phrase my question, pose an eapecial threat to our formi of govern. ment, Anud, to get down to fihe question, dloesnt't the need increase for an oxposure and for a revelation of those thingsI Mir. HitRNnoN. I think that a teacher occupies it position of public trust. Mir. CLARnOY. Much as a lawyer does Its tin officer of the court. Mm'. HZRNWNo. fIn some ways It, is more important. Mir. (N-vr. I apyee with*youl.
Mr. Hrmoxo. Yoil have voting pole whom you call impress. Mir. ('IAn. You have young minds that can be molded, in other words.
Mr. HFitNDOW. You have. Mir. 0. %Rny. Go ahead. Air. Himnox%. I think that-and I am mindful of thle statotment,-I think that the weakness of the Communist position is shown by the numerically small proportion, by the very few number of teachers, as far as my experience has beent, thiat can be recruited into the party. (IOMMIINIAT A(VIVI1TIMA IN #11tIG1.0 O ANOI~jV AIMHA 525 1 Ofink, hwiflinrCht whila q11itcit4Ativitly It. sliows f~io weitkne"s ril lIIII'111yi au'1ve:'t ielIis, fiilii illively it, iH it (l1,1'Ild thui (IIIIwii (if tig. Rt 1111t. it,eiii (10 it lot, )t (11111nigel If It (vlvotIilly explodelS. 1IN ltt, IIOWbfg It, Inight Ni I'. iIKII1NIJ4)N. I11 IiHIM It 1441410 411Mi~I ig 111)(1111 grow. IIiid (-etiti tinly
Mr. (CsAlDr. It, Ill likO It 4,111011', WNII1011 14111115 141111111 (rE4,t.t'EyIs tho witolti lusy. the C11061 Would youl Hay thalt 1IN IION,V tllf NMr. (1l. 1.IIN 411141 19-44 IIsli~m ffi 11.der 1drt i lllt'iii w -41 O4)flfelt.l3 wliait it, Is, 01i1t, 11int oil IN isetlliile't htit'kt.MIs ItI t'N. ii(li'IEIVt IAiINI1i. MIttt tl' IlivitI. sl tengIlu'id . NMrI. Nlly I followv Iflflst Wpvili~ JIMt. olii'e4ui'st illill Mi.'. Sm4uuip-:g. Mi'. (I 11.' Ye4.. IIi'EIldy 11iIHwe'-i(' it, 11itt.
Mr. se(filptKI, I 11111k M e jurorl-siso.III 1111 iis llt n or iiiyoiir th thero I4 inotli III youir exJerfitee before fIO ling8 ititefred ill sily ctiiititI Will Ii III ifilltof t him coilititten fithat wity wit It your fiendiide. freedIom, 18 thoro? 
Mr. IIEBUNDON. No, 1 the' bst.?
Mr. S'iliriiw. Not ili
Mr. II-11.w1i)O. No, May I im pify 1li1t03 fmi.
Mr. CLtARDYv. I Wish1 yI*I Wahllis 1.11k lC Of111d giVPii Ine Itifi MiP. IfiMtql)ON. It 1111H igiti 111111I11'141111,1 yoIi,'s('-I of 1H ~',o'ds h't lui't'
Mr. CiAmmi'. Ill 0011t prlobably Iiouild(youl for it bug tChile. e11114mltig wbiehk 111118 h ot fj~~ ~~~i~ M r. HIINI)ON. 'I11111. i*s (11it1 so.
Mr. CL!mARDY. Isay.t11iln juilig t4osIOilfleM .o xpe ('AltilttIy. to ltir r like youl iloitig'lii tosmsia~~illy pittili it 4'gVh ofefor it nuinixtr haid ifia lin hu (Illlit few like 14111. Weg lutivo Wi' liat'e tgid typo e' udw numbe of themin thefip hiearingbeoe if WIIimntoi, whio, like yoirself tire motIst art itihute, And tindertitndithkn witnesmes, Who hanve sititi inuellh the irnnmie thin0O Vol id. UT Ihave it ('(li(IEIilo 1iiiiouliit ofV tt'stifiioiiy fron People .1n fe1(141 1*0 yourself itlong tlnt, muns,1( line, 101(1 it. gave, Jim ('onsidertbie, jw-iuo otni nd to hear you saty what you hiavet j11141 Saidl, sir. Do You have iiny firt hem' (1juieslolm?
Mr. TAYP.WNP.R. No fun'ther questions.
Mr. ClAItg)y. Mr. Witness, we thank you. CAII your next witness.
Mr.TAVPNNrYfl. Mr. Chlairmian, before calling the witness I have two tobowTRamns which I think Ahould be read.
Mr'. CLARDY. You may read them.
Mr. TAVYNNICR (reading) : CHAIRMAN, HiOUSE COMIIC UNf-AsiRRIcAN Acnivrirtra: I would 'like to have it known that the Fred IWrnhach mentioned Inthe testl. mony of David Lang Ina different person than Arthur Jlernbach who box been guying as Chief of the Ihrllng Legal Division of the United State. Department.
Mr. CLAmr. State Department, isn't itI
Mr. TAvzNRt. It its Intended, I guess, to hie State Department.
Mr. CIAARDY. That is the way it looked to me. 526 COMMUNIrT! ACTIVITIES IN THlE LOS ANa1RLES'AREA 
Mr, TAVwE irN(conthuting to read) : For the past 8 years line been a member of the legal family of Bernbach in Detroit and Los Angeles. And the I have a telegram to the House In-American Activities Committee, Congressman Jackson: My name Is Frank Gammon and I ani eiployed In the motion picture Industry, I live at 101West 60th Stret,,Ik Angeles 47, 1 would like to have It anmineed that I ain not connected In tiny way with 8imen Lazarus or thoRobert Oaim. whose name was mentioned at your meeting of yeAterday, sincerely, RoMw FRANK GAMMON. 
Mr. TAvWNN.R. I would like to call at this time Richard B. lewis.
Mr. CLAmRD. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give to be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but tile truth, so help yon God I Dr. LW is, I do. TESTIMONY OF RICHARD BYRD LEWIS 