Miss HELLMAN. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Counsel will please identify himself for the record.
Mr. RAUH. My name is Joseph L. Rauh, Jr., 1631 K Street.
Mr. WOOD. In Washington?
Mr. RAUH. Washington, D. C.; yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Thank you, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are Miss Lillian Hellman?
Miss HELLMAN. Yes, I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you born ?
Miss HELLMAN. I was born in New Orleans, La., in June 1905.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Miss HELLMAN. I reside at 63 East Eighty-second Street, New York City. 3541 3542 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY in a general
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give to the committee, please, educational way, what your educational training has been, formal training'? La.,
Miss HELLMAN. Yes. I went to public schools in New Orleans, and Columand in New York City. I went to New York University bia University.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Miss HELLMAN. I am a writer; a playwright.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been a playwright?
Miss HELLMAN. Since about 1933.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what some of the principal productions have been, that is, your productions as a playwright ?
Miss HELLMAN. Not a full list, just some?
Mr. TAVENNER. Some of the most prominent.
Miss HELLMAN. The Children's Hour, The Little Foxes, Watch On The Rhine, Another Part of the Forest, The Autumn Garden, The Searching Wind.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where have you engaged in the practice of your profession?
Miss HELLMAN. In the practice of playwriting in New York City, principally.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, were you not located in Hollywood for a while ?
Miss HELLMAN. Yes, sir. I have done screen writing, a great deal of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time?
Miss HELLMAN. From about the beginning of 1935 through about 1945, and one short job since then.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was the work that you say was a short job since then; when was that done?
Miss HELLMAN. I think in about 1948 or 1949.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the title?
Miss HELLMAN. It wasn't a title. I went out to California to work for 2 weeks to do a so-called 10-page treatment on Streetcar Named Desire, which the producer, the owner at that point, wished to submit to the Breen office. In other words, I did not do a script, I simply did a suggestion for Mr. Breen.
Mr. TAVENNER. For what studios have you worked?
Miss HELLMAN. I have worked mostly for Samuel Goldwyn, for whom I worked off and on for 10 years. I also did a picture for Warner Bros., and The Searching Wind was produced by Mr. Hal Wallace of Paramount Pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you consider the major screen credits which you have received for your work in Hollywood?
Miss HELLMAN. An adaptation of my own play The Children's Hour, which was called These Three, a picture called The Dark Angel. I did the screen play of my own play The Little Foxes. I edited the screen play of my own play Watch on the Rhine. I did the screen play of my own play Searching Wind. I worked for short periods on other pictures. But those are the major ones.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you go to Hollywood? 
Miss HELLMAN. I went first in 1930 and worked at Metro-GoldwynMayer as a reader and translator, reader chiefly. I went back in COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3543 1935, I1think, to the first screen-writing job. I also did a picture called Dead End, which I had forgotten,
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in Hollywood when you were there in 1935?
Miss HELLMAN. I couldn't say, Mr. Tavenner. I would think it was a period of 4 or 5 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what was the occasion of your next trip to Hollywood?
Miss HELLMAN. I think my own play, The Children's Hour, which would have been 1936. I am not certain of these dates.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in 1936 in Hollywood?
Miss HELLMAN. I think about the same period off and on. I never really lived in Hollywood. I would live 2 or 3 months and then come back for a month or two. I think the longest period I ever lived was about 6 months or 7 months, which was 1937 or 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were there in 1937 and 1938, did you say ?
Miss HELLMAN. Off and on; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And I believe you said that you were there for longer periods of time during 1937 and 1938 than any other time.
Miss HELLMAN. Yes; I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall what time of the year you were in Hollywood in 1937?
Miss HELLMAN. I would think it would be winter and spring, because I went to Europe, I think, in the summer of 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, from the early part of 1937 through to the end of the year with the exception of the period in between, during the summer, when you went abroad, is that what you mean ?
Miss HELLMAN. No, sir; I don't mean with the exception. I meant that I would have been there in the winter and spring of 1937. I left to go to Europe in, I think July or August of 1937, and I don't think I went back to Hollywood until 1938 again.
Mr. TAVENNER. And how long did you remain there when you returned in 1938 ?
Miss HELLMAN. I couldn't say. I don't remember. It probably was 3 or 4 months. My periods of working on scripts have never been living in Hollywood. I frequently did scripts in New York City and went out in the middle or went out at the end.
Mr. TAVENNER. From 1938 on to the completion of your work in Hollywood, how frequently were you there, do you think?
Miss HELLMAN. I don't really think I could answer. I would have to remember what picture I was doing, and I don't remember what picture I was doing. I think it was a picture called Dead End, but I am not certain. It would have never been-I would have doubted if it was ever a period of longer than 4 months. It may have been twice.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of your visits to Hollywood, did you become acquainted with Martin Berkeley?
Miss HELLMAN. I must refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, on the ground it might incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Let me ask you again, because I am not certain that my recollection is clear about it. You stated that in the summer of 1937 you went abroad?
Miss HELLMAN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What month?
Miss HELLMAN. I think it was August. 3544 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. In August. And you left from Hollywood to engage on your trip abroad ?
Miss HELLMAN. No. I had an apartment in New York. I have always had a residence in New York. I came back, as I remember, for 2 or 3 weeks, 4 weeks perhaps, and then went to Europe.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you may have been back in New York for 3 or 4 weeks prior to your leaving in August?
Miss HELLMAN. Yes, I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Miss Hellman, during the course of the hearings in California in September 1951, Mr. Martin Berkeley testified regarding the holding of a meeting of members of the Communist Party in June of 1937 at his home. This appeared, according to his testimony, to have been one of the early organizational meetings of the Communist Party in Hollywood. I want to read you his testimony regarding that meeting:
Mr. TAVENNER. You have spoken of the aims and objectives of the Communist Party generally in this area I would like you now to tell the committee when and where the Hollywood section of the Communist Party was first organized.
Mr. BERKELEY Well, sir, by a very strange coincidence the section was organized in my house. From the time I got out here in January, the party grew pretty rapidly Jerome was working hard, Mike Pell was working hard, Lou Harris was working hard, and all of us were working pretty hard to recruit members. And we felt-you see, at that time there was no real organization, you were a party member but you had no place to go and meet There were no real groups, there were a few study groups but that is about all. It was felt that numerically we were strong enough to have our own organization which was called the Hollywood section In June of 1937, the middle of June, the meeting was held in my house. My house was picked because I had a large living room and ample parking facilities, it was out on Beverly Glen, which was out in the country, at least in those days, and my lease was up in 2 days. So we had the meeting at my house And it was a pretty good meeting We were honored by the presence of many functionaries from downtown, and the spirit was swell
Mr. TAVENNER Will you give us the names of those who were in attendance at that meeting, who were members of the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY Well, in addition to Jerome and the others I have mentioned before, and there is no sense in me going ove the list again and again. I would like to get to the newer people, if I may. Eva Shafran, who was then, I believe, the educational director of the county, downtown, and who is now dead.
Mr TAVENNER Will you spell the name, please
Mr. BERKELEY. I think it is spelled, the first name is Eva, I think it is spelled S-h-a-f-r-a-n. I am not sure, but I think that is how you spell her name Also present was Harry Carlisle, who is now in the process of being deported, for which I am very grateful. He was an English subject. After Stanley Lawrence had stolen what funds there were from the party out here, and to make amends had gone to Spain and gotten himself killed, they sent Harry Carlisle here to conduct Marxist classes He was at the meeting. Also at the meeting was Donald Ogden Stewart. His name is spelled Donald Ogden S-t-e-w-a-r-t Dorothy Parker, also a writer. Her husband Allen Campbell, C-a-m-p-b-e-l-1; my old friend Dashiell Hammett, who is now in jail in New York for his activities; that very excellent playwright, Lillian HellmanAnd he goes on to name others. 
Miss Hellman, in light of that testimony, I want to ask you whether or not you agree that that is a correct statement, and if it is not, wherein it is in error and, if you did attend this meeting as represented and as sworn to by Mr. Berkeley, I would then want to ask you regarding the activities of any other persons who were there. First of all, I will ask you the question, is that statement true? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3545 
Miss HELLMAN. I would very much like to discuss this with you, 
Mr. Tavenner, and I would hke at this point to refer you to my letter. I have every desire to discuss this with you. To be fair to myself I think I have worked very hard over this letter, and most seriously. I would like to ask you once again to reconsider what I have said in the letter.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you are asking the committee not to ask you any questions regarding the participation of other persons in the Communist Party activities ?
Miss HELLMAN. I don't think I said that, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. WOOD. In order to clarify the record, Mr. Counsel, at this point would it be wise to put into the record at this point the correspondence that has been had between the witness and me as chairman of the committee, pertaining to her letter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I have here the letter of Miss Hellman, addressed to the chairman, May 19,1952, and a copy of the reply by the chairman of May 20, 1952, which I produce and ask to be made a part of the record as Hellman exhibit No. 1. That will be 1 and 2. (Documents referred to marked "Helman Exhibits Nos. 1 and 2" and filed for the record.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I notice the press is passing around copies. Are those copies being disseminated by you?
Mr. RAUH. By me, Mr. Tavenner. I thought you had accepted them in the record and that was proper. I am sorry if I had done anything that was not proper.
Mr. TAVENNER. Not at all. I was just interested to know whether you were prepared to do that before you came here.
Mr. RAUH. We had to have the copies, Mr. Tavenner. If you had not put them in the record I would not have done it. I thought it was proper once you made it a part of the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. There is no objection to that. 
Mr. WOOD. I might state in that connection, Mr. Counsel, for the purpose of suggesting that the correspondence be placed in the record, it is in my view that in the function of this committee we cannot be placed in the attitude of trading with the witnesses as to what they will testify to, and that is the substance of my reply which is in the record and which I think should be read publicly now, in view of the fact that the witness has been circulating them among the press.
Mr. TAVENNER. The letter by Miss Hellman reads as follows: DEAR iMR. WOOD: As you know, I am under subpena to appear before your committee on May 21, 1952. I am most willing to answer all questions about myself. I have nothing to hide from your committee and there is nothing in my life of which I am ashamed I have been advised by counsel that under the fifth amendment I have a constitutional privilege to decline to answer any questions about my political opinions, activities, and associations, on the grounds of self-incrimination. I do not wish to claim this privilege. I am ready and willing to testify before the representa- tives of our Government as to my own opinions and my own actions, regardless of any risks or consequences to myself. But I am advised by counsel that if I answer the committee's questions about myself, I must also answer questions about other people and that if I refuse to do so, I can be cited for contempt. My counsel tells me that if I answer questions about myself, I will have waived my rights under the fifth amendment and could be forced legally to answer questions about others. This is very difficult for a layman to understand. But there is one principle that I do understand: I am not willing, now or in the future, to bring bad trouble to people who, in my past 3546 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY association with them, were completely innocent of any talk or any action that was disloyal or subversive. I do not like subversion or disloyalty in any form and if I had ever seen any I would have considered it my duty to have reported it to the proper authorities. But to hurt innocent people whom I knew many years ago in order to save myself is, to me inhuman and indecent and dishonorable. I cannot and will not cut my conscience to fit this year's fashions, even though I long ago came to the conclusion that I was not a political person and could have no comfortable place in any political group. I was raised in an old-fashioned American tradition and there were certain homely things that were taught to me: To try to tell the truth, not to bear false witness, not to harm my neighbor, to be loyal to my country, and so on. In general, I respected these ideals of Christian honor and did as well with them as I knew how. It is my belief that you will agree with these simple rules of human decency and will not expect me to violate the good American tradition from which they spring. I would, therefore, like to come before you and speak of myself. I am prepared to waive the privilege against self-incrimination and to tell you everything you wish to know about my views or actions if your committee will agree to refrain from asking me to name other people. If the committee is unwilling to give me this assurance, I will be forced to plead the privilege of the fifth amendment at the bearing. A reply to this letter would be appreciated. Sincerely yours, LILLIAN HELLMAN. The answer to the letter is as follows: DEAR Miss HELLMAN : Reference is made to your letter dated May 19, 1952, wherein you indicate that in the event the committee asks you questions regarding your association with other individuals you will be compelled to rely upon the fifth amendment in giving your answers to the committee questions. In this connection, please be advised that the committee cannot permit witnesses to set forth the terms under which they will testify. We have in the past secured a great deal of information from persons in the entertainment profession who cooperated wholeheartedly with the committee. The committee appreciates any information furnished it by persons who have been members of the Communist Party. The committee, of course, realizes that a great number of persons who were members of the Communist Party at one time honestly felt that it was not a subversive organization. However, on the other hand, it should be pointed out that the contributions made to the Communist Party as a whole by persons who were not themselves subversive made it possible for those members of the Communist Party who were and still are subversives to car y on their work The committee has endeavored to furnish a hearing to each person identified as a Communist engaged in work in the entertainment field in order the record could be made clear as to whether they were still membersthat of the Communist Party Any persons identified by you during the course of committie hearings will be aifoided the opportunity of appearing before the committee in accordance with the policy of the committee. Sincerely yours, JOHN S WOOD,Chairman. Now, the question was asked you of whether or not you attended this organizational meeting of the Communist Party that was described by Mr. Martin Berkeley. 
Miss HELLI.XIN. I must refuse to answer, on the ground that it might incriminate me. 
Mr. Woon. You might refuse to answer it. do you refuse. The question is asked, m iss HELLMN. I am sorry, I refuse m o n it t e s t ithat r e d on the ground t o c o n t i n u etot oanswer y might incriminate me.
Mr. TAWENNER. I desire to continue to read additional testimony as given by Mr. Berkeley. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3547 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you later obtain information that some of these individuals were made members of the Communist Party at large?
Mr. BERKELEY I did, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER Which of these persons whom you have named became members at large of the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I have to put it this way, sir. After this meeting I never saw Stewart or Parker or Campbell or Hammett or Hellman at a party meeting. They were at that meeting at my house and I spoke to Jerome and Lawson at a subsequent date and I asked them where Stewart and Dash were-I was very fond of Dash Hammett-and he said that they had been assigned to a group known as party members at large. They were no longer assigned to any particular group in the Hollywood section and that I had seen the last of them as far as organizational matters were concerned. I imagine right now they wish they hadn't come in the first place. There are throughout the country those who are members at large of the Communist Party.
Mr TAVENNER. Will you repeat that, please.
Mr. BERKELEY. I said throughout the country, in addition to these I have already mentioned, there are many other people who are members at large of the Communist Party. That is very important to the party to have these members at large.
Mr TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what you mean by member at large, or what the Communist Party meant by the expression or by the designation "Member at large"?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, if you are pretty important and you don't want to be exposed-Well, suppose Congressman Jackson here decided to become a Communist, God forbid.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you pick somebody else, please?
Mr. BERKELEY. It would be pretty important that no one knew that such was the case, and the party would probably not issue a formal book. You would take your oath to the Communist Party, you would pay your dues to the Communist Party, you would take your directives from the Communist Party, and you would function as you were told to function, but you would not go to meetings with other Congressmen orthat is the way it is writtenor other writers, or other members of the top echelon in the trade unions or the arts. From time to time you might meet with a man like-I am sure these five writers I have mentioned as members at large, they undoubtedly met out here in secret with John Howard Lawson or in New York with V. J. Jerome or a gentleman called Brown, who is a member, or who was then a member of the Politburo of the party. You would meet with these people and get your directions and instructions from the party and function, but you would have no contact with anybody else in the party for your protection and for the protection of the party and the collection of dues. Were you at any time a member at large of the Communist Party ?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with V. J. Jerome?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. John Howard Lawson ?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Miss HELLMAN. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever a member of the Communist Party ?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, on the same grounds.
Mr. WOOD. See if we can be of mutual assistance to each other. You testified that you are not now a member of the Communist Party. On the grounds of possible self-incrimination you have declined to answer whether you were ever a member.
Miss HELLMAN. Yes, sir. 3548 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WOOD. What I would like to know is can you fix a date, a period of time in the immediate past, during which you are willing to testify that you have not been a member of the Communist Party?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer, Mr. Wood, on the same grounds.
Mr. WOOD. Were you yesterday?
Miss HELLMAN. No, sir. 
Mr. WOOD. Were you last year at this time ?
Miss HELLMAN. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Were you 5 years ago at this time?
Miss HELLMAN. I must refuse to answer. 
Mr. WOOD. Were you 2 years ago from this time ?
Miss HELLMAN. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Three years ago from this time?
Miss HELLMAN. I must refuse to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. WOOD. You say you must refuse. Do you refuse to answer whether you were 3 years ago?
Miss HELLMAN. I am so sorry, I forget. I certainly don't mean to forget.
Mr. WALTER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in the middle of June 1937?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer, Mr. Walter, on the same ground.
Mr. WALTER. As I remember the letter that was read-your letter to the chairman-you didn't want to testify because you were afraid that you might bring bad trouble to people whose names might be mentioned in connection with your testimony. In view of the fact that Martin Berkeley has already admitted that he was a member of the Communist Party, what bad trouble do you think you would bring to him if you were to admit that you attended the meeting at his home?
Miss HELLMAN. I must stand by the letter, Mr. Walter. I have worked very hard on it, and I tried very hard to explain exactly what I meant by it. I must refer back to it at this point.
Mr. WALTER. Yes, I think I understand that perfectly. But the principal reason why you do not want to testify is because you do not want to bring, to quote you, bad trouble to other people. Martin Berkeley has already admitted that he was a member of the Communist Party. You decline to answer the question of whether or not you attended a meeting at his home. What bad trouble could you bring to him if you would mention his name?
Miss HELLMAN. Since I don't quite understand, may I speak with my counsel?
Mr. WALTER. Yes. (Witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss HELLMAN. Because I didn't understand that that was the principle reason and because I don't understand the legalities, may I refer you to Mr. Rauh. I didn't really understand the question. I would prefer Mr. Rauh answer it if it is possible.
Mr. WALTER. No; I am not interested in that. I know about what he would say.
Mr. TAVENNER. On February 12, 1948, the National Institute of Arts and Letters addressed a letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives protesting the investigation of the Communist infiltration of the motion-picture industry as a subversion of the traditional American sense of fair play and human decency. Your name COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3549 appears as having been signed to this letter. That is February 12, 1948. Were you a member of the Communist Party at that time?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, on the same ground.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have stated in answer to a question from one of the members of the committee that 3 years ago you were not a member of the Communist Party, if I understood you correctly.
Mr. RAUH. I am sorry, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Two years ago. But you refused to answer as to whether you were a member of the Commumst Party 3 years ago. There is one great advantage between those two periods which is uppermost in my mind, and I want to ask you whether it has any bearing or significance with respect to your answer. The Korean episode began in 1950. Does that have any bearing upon your answer as to the time in which you were willing to testify you were not a member of the Communist Party?
Miss HELLMAN. No, sir; I don't think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what event, if any, occurred which makes you willing to testify that you were not a member of the Communist Party 2 years ago?
Miss HELLMAN. I must refuse to answer that, Mr. Tavenner, on the same grounds.
Mr. WOOD. You are still not under any compulsion.
Miss HELLMAN. I am very sorry, Mr. Wood. It is a way of talking, I suppose. It is rather hard to cure myself.
Mr. WOOD. But I cannot let it stay in the record that you are under any compulsion.
Miss HELLMAN. I am sorry, I will try very hard not to do it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your answer, then, is that you decline to answer on a constitutional ground, the fifth amendment in particular.
Miss HELLMAN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever pay Communist Party dues?
Miss HELLMAN. I refuse to answer, Mr. Tavenner, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I do not believe that pursuing the question further would be of any particular help to the committee. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter does not desire to ask the witness any further questions. Is there any reason why this witness should not be excused from further attendance before the committee ?
Mr. TAVEN ER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Do you have a second witness for the day?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will stand in recess until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. (Whereupon, at 11: 37 a. m., the committee recessed, to reconvene at 10 a. m., Thursday, May 22, 1952.) X 