Mr. BENOFF. Max Benoff. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You testified before the Committee on Un-American Activities in Los Angeles on March 24,1953, did you not?
Mr. BENorF. Yes, air.
Mr. TAVENNIM. The committee has been informed that you desire to appear again before the committee this morning.
Mr. BENoFr. Ye sir.
Mr. TAvENNF.R. Wili you state to the committee, pleaIse the reason for your desire to appear before the committee, and proceed to make such statements as you desire.
Mr. BENOFF. I want to thank you first for allowing me to appear here 'Released by tie fall committee. 3Mo 3502 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. DomLw. I think Mr. Chairman, the witness is here without legal counsel. I wonder if that is entirely at your own choice.
Mr. BcwOF?. Yes.
Mr. DoylE. You are willing to proceed without private counsel with youI
Mr. BENOFF. Yes. Mr. Tavenner, may I read a statement which I have prepared? I am sorry, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Proceed.
Mr. BENOFF. When I appeared before the House Committee on Un-American Activities I was motivated by only one desire: To draw a distinct line between my confused past and my clear knowledge and distinction of the truth which I see today. I not only wanted to make amends for personal mistakes and misassociations, but overcoming personal pride and false consideration which tied me to an untenable position, I wanted to be accepted by the movement which is now afoot and which I have now learned to respect as the only salvation, and that is the movement to stamp out communism. I used the privilege of appearing before the committee in order to make a public break and declare myself as an ally of the anti-Communist forces. Unknowingly I have been drawn into a movement, the true nature of which I never understood, which now turns out to have been part of a subversive activity which cannot be tolerated by anyone who calls himself an American. Now, it has become clear to me that the Communists have declared war on us and they intend to win this war with every means at their disposal, aboveboard or underground. After my testimony I have found that the impression created by me on the stand was not what I intended. Where I thought that I had been 100 percent cooperative, some people whose patriotism has been above reproach, have expressed their disappointment in the manner and contents of my statements. Looking back, I must say that I could have been more definite, but I would like to submit that at that time I was only intent upon declaring myself as a cooperative witness and had left the manner and extent of the questioning to the committee. It was only human of me to try and make my appearance as short as possible. When the committee had no more questions and I was thanked for my testimony, I stepped off the stand, relieved and convinced that I had done my duty and accomplished my purpose. However, as long as even one doubt remains among people whose fight against communism I admire and eagerly support, I know that I have not done enough. I am not sure what else I can do, and I am not sure of some of the facts that unfortunately seem to be on record against me, and which I can less explain than some people who may be experts in the structure, organization, and workings of the Communist menace and disease. But I want to reiterate that I would go to any extent to help uncover facts that I may not be aware of if, with the help of more competent People, I would be assisted in remembering. The basic facts; as given in my short testimony, are still, to my best recollection, the sum total of my Communist Party affiliations. The names mentioned by me are still more or less all the names that I can identify with the degree of certainty required under oath. CoMUnST avrrIs iN TH LOS ANaELES AnzA 3503 However, a great deal can sometimes be achieved if good people get together and cooperate. I would be happy and privileged in doing my duty as a citizen if I were permitted to dig into my past, with the help of the investigator or even a group of citizens whom I respect, in order to unearth any more clues that might be of any value in our fight against the common enemy Do I need to add that I am, aove and beyond my above statements, ready, willing, and eager to take up arms, literally or any other way, to do my little share as a citizen ?
Mr. JAcKsox. Thank you, Mr. Benoff.
Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TANT]NTE. Mr. Benoff, you testified when before the committee previously of the character of work in which you had been engaged in New York City prior to your coming to Hollywood in the year 1943. You were asked the question at that time as to whether or not you had been affiliated with the Communist Party in any manner in New York prior to your coming to Los Angeles, and your reply was that you had not. You were also asked the question as to whether or not you had been approached in New York City by anyone and requested to join the Communist Party, and you replied that you had not. The committee is in possession of information indicating that your Communist Party membership was transferred in November 1943 from the city of Rew York to Los Angeles. That is the only matter that comes Wvithin my knowledge as to which you could be further interrogated with the prospect of accomplishing any further purpose. So I would like to ask you now whether you desire in any way to enlarge upon your former testimony.
Mr. BENOF. Yes, Mr. Tavenner, I do very much want to enlarge upon that. When I gave that answer it was a truthful answer, and this is my enlargement upon it. When we worked on Duffy's Tavern 2 men came from Hollywood-one was Jack Moss--to produce a picture show out of tho road show Duffy's Tavern. The other fellow was a writer whose name was Lou Soloian.
Mr. JcKsox. Would you spell that, please !
Mr. BF.NOF. L-o-u S-o-l-o-m-a-n. And now I can't recall that he said to me, "Will you join the Communist Party?" If he did, I would be more than happy to say so, that he did, if he signed me. If I actually had a clear recollection, or even a hazy recollectionalthough you want me to say only what I recall, I know. 1 would tell you so. I have nothing to hide and don't want to hide anything from the committee. But I can only say this: This is what it must have been-and in retrospect it exp)aini a lot of things that don't seem quite right-I am sure that he said to me, "Would you like to meet big writers like myself ' I thought he was a big writer. He wasn't very'Mr. TvENN-R. To whom are you referring I
Mr. Borr. To Mr. Lou. Solonmun; not to Mr. Mosm I don't remember this type of conversation with Mr. Moss. Ile must have said to me,"Would you like to meet with big writers I" And in those days discussions of communism was not like it,Mr. DoYLE. What year was this? 81741-54--pt. 8-2 350 COMMUST *criVffm DI TEN 
Mr. Bjoraq. 1948. L40B AKGNLNS AMN They came out-I don't remember exactly. I left, I believe, in June, and I believe they were in New York for about a month with us, in which time they signed us to write the screenplay with Lou Soloman, and to come back to Hollywood with a kind ofscreenplay; that is, he came to get the title and he got it and we were brought back. He may have said to me, "Would you like to join the Communist Partyl" at which time it wouldn't have seemed so out of line for me to say, and possibly .1 told him "Yes." I may have, but I don't think I did; but possibly I did. I know one thing, it was always the mark of a ood Communist to grab a recruit whenever you can; even if he wasn't very good you got him and worked with him. I remember once walking alon $the street with Jack Moss, walking and talking along, and he walked-into a drugstore and bought me a copy of Mother Russia, and said, "Here, this will teach you more about Russia." That is all r can remember. I don't recall even going to one meeting. If there was any kind of activity there, there never was any kind of Communist Party activity on my part. o
Mr. TAVENNER. You are speaking now of the city of New York?
Mr. Bzo*7. Yes, the city of New York. And I would have no reason to--believe me, gentlemen, I' don't want-there is no reason why I wouid want to tell about California and not this part of New York. It didn't seem very important. I discussed with my attorneys at the time, as a matter of fact, and I know how the committee-I know from Mr. Wheeler you have to be pretty definite before you can say anything that will incriminate on the stand, and I know the high purpose of the committee is not to say things that have no real backing.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the general nature of the representations, if any, that were made to you by Mr. Soloman, or your general impression as to his political philosophy I
Mr. Barrow. Well, Mr. Jackson, you know in retrospect now, that
Mr. Soloman has been identified a number oi times as a Communist. You know you are bound to be affected by things that are spoken, but,honestly, here is what really went on: 'He came there with the treatment for Duffy's Tavern. Duffy's Tavern was not anything that had to do with communism; completely opposite, as a matter of fact- that is, opposite in that it was free and democratic and so forth. And our discussions were mainly upon this thing, because we had all worked very hard on Duffy's Tavern for 2 years, day and night, and it meant very much to us. First, when they came they had to make a deal. So really it was a very short period. First they came they had to make the deal-it wasn't made yet--then the time had to be spent to make the deal. Then it was to hire the writers, and we were naturally selected to be the writers. And that was kind of a shaking thing, because it was so much money we were getting, and so on. There really wasn't much time. Now, I might add that Lou.Soloman didn't take very much to me. Whatever it was, our personalities were not of the same type. He was a much more serious fellow than I am; was a different type fellow than I am. In fact, what happened was when we came out here I 0mMST Ac TU Im TH LOs AxGmE Am 3505 left Duffy's Tavern and went into picture work, and I never even talked to Lou Soloman. He never called me up and said, "Come to meetingn" and he had nothing to do at all with any Communist Party activity here. I never saw him at a meeting. That's hard to say becaue--in fact, I will take that back, because that is hard to say because you get everything confused. Now, it is 10 years or so, and what you think you saw at the Screen Writers' Guild or Veterans Committee meeting, maybe you are now mistaken.
Mr. JAcxsoN. Well now, today, under the compulsion of your oath, you are prepared, Mr. Benoff, without equivocation, to say that you have told the committee everything within your recollection or your knowledge?
Mr. Bnxonm. Absolutely.
Mr. JAcxso . As to your activities in and on behalf of the Communist Party, and also the names of all the individuals with whom you attended Communist Party meetings or Communist Party functions
Mr. Bnrow. In New Y I
Mr. JACKSON. Yes.
Mr. Bzxow. Y -ir, absolutely so, sir.
Mr. TAvzNNRi I have no furtherq1estions.
Mr.J~cxso~'. Is there anything,Mr:Dole!
Mr. Dovi.. Let's see, you a howold now?
Mr. BFrv. Thirtylcght. \
Mr.Doli. Dun thistim,10yeegragoyouwere281 \
Mr. iskorzn. That is i*htd9- --.
Mr..I~rn. I notice At Anentdened, though, that Ar. Mon stopped at astore and bougo Ou a book boat Russia and said "Here is morelabout Rtka." 
Mr. 1zO. yel.iI ~ T rent l y you had been discussing Uussia. C 
Mr. In*hat way withM.iUo
Mr. Btrof,. J tstasanybody wouid di 6ujs it at that time. I think we wer together the (var then, I belliwe'ww-were. I doift know how the nversatlon.ould h'arte. . ,.It wouldn't be that startling, to e me reim ember, but V -remeniber him buying n;'o a book. But it co d have started about wy they were'our allied; I don't know wheth tere wst a second front tho. Any oas of those things. - ..- / 
Mr. DormuWhat I
Mr. Bzvor. Oekainly, Mr. Doyle, it had nothing to do-I don't know. It had nothing to do with the nature of 'the material in the screen play. in-e , .Mr.Dohx.I am interested seei-g if you could help me understand more what it is that impels you now to be so desirous of doing everything you can to do what you said you want to do in the state. ment.you just read to us, to the committee; that is, to cooperate in defeating the Communist conspiracy. What is it, Mr. Benoff, that im is ou to that position I It *Nso .Well you know, it is a hard thing to say. Of course, ithas to do with work. But that is not it. It is a hard thing to say. I can't stand the thought that people are saying, "What's the matter with Benoff," you know. "Is he still a CommuxustV" For instance, a man who I respect very much said to me, "Let your conscience be your guide." Now, that is terrible. I mean, I can't go 3506 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE. LOS ANGELES AREA Iirough life with people thinking I am not an American or there .a some kind of spy kind of thing, or something like that. The rumors that get around are just terrible. These things kill me. I have to clear that up, and I think what happened last time, if the testimony got around to being too flippant, that I have led some people to believe that-that's what I want to erase. I mean I am deadly serious about this. I can't have people say these things about me. If I may I would like-for instance, it has been brought to my attention-i didn't know this thing was going on aboutMr. DoY. What
Mr. BzEOFF. I mean, people saying, or a man who I had admired and respected, saying, "Let your conscience be your guide." What's going on ? Then I found out there is a rumor aflight that I worked in the Russian Embassy, that my father worked in the Russian Embassy. That is not so. The simple fact of the story is that way back, when I was about 19 I worked for Torgsin, who may have been a part of the Amtorg Wrading Corp., which was a 7.assian subsidiary. I worked as a shipping clerk. I worked for $18 a week. I worked for k.months. I was happy to have the job. They fired me, or I quit, I don't know which it was, what happened.
Mr. Doymz. How did you get that?
Mr. BENoFF. My father did some insurance--he spoke Russian. I went back and asked my father, and he says, "You can go back to your children and everybody and say, 'I was not a member and am not.'" He is retired now, and doesn't do any business. That is the kind of rumor I want to dispel. Then I hear that when I got on the Life with Luigi, there was a fellow by the name of Hy Kraft, who has been identified, been brought up as a Communist, and that there was something indicated of a contact, you know, kind of Communist Party contact was alluded to. That is not so, because I was brought on to see if I could help that show. I was such a great aid that in 3 weeks Mr. Kraft was taken off the show. So how could there have been any connection, any kind of Communist Party connection between Mr. Kraft and myself? I mean, I think that I didn't make my position clear enough at the time; I think I didn't quite understand'it, and I think I have to make my position evident. There has to be definiteness about it. I don't want anybody to have any idea that I am affiliated with the Communists. I think it is terrible.
Mr. DoymE. What is wrong with the Communist propaganda program, as far as our Nation is concerned with it, what is there, in your judgment, that makes you so anxious to divorce yourself of the possibility that at any time you were a member of the Communist Party? Suppose you had been I Suppose you were now?
Mr. BENOFF. Oh, no. Communism, as I said it is a disease, it is a menace, and, well, it's taken a lot of people and been a hard lesson to learn; against every interest of our country. It hasto be destroyed, I think.
Mr. Dom. I agree with you, of course, but I want to see if part of your motive in coming here this morning was to come out against the Communist propaganda program, rather than just entirely to clear up your own status in the community; if you get my point. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3507 
Mr. BENoF'. I certainly do. If I haven't made myself clearMr. DOYm. In other words, the reason Don Jackson and I are here this morning is because there is a real threat to our whole constitutional existence by reason of the proven subversive Communist conspiracy to overthrow it by force and violence.
Mr. BENOFF. Absolutely. Oh, yes, sir. I had that in my statement. I sat down and I said, "Put down what you think." And I do want to join with the forcesMr. DOYLE. May I ask you one more question: Since you appeared before the committee before, you are adding this supplementary statement-in the interim has it come to you that anything that this committee could do or should do in connection with our hearings, public hearings, such as you appeared in before, that we did not do beforeI Is there any way we could make that sort of hearing more efficient and of an aid in any way against the Communist conspiracy? You have had several months to think it over.
Mr. BE orF. No, sir. I think the committee is doing a fine job. I think I can help because I think you see it is a frightening thing to appear in public. It is tough for people to appear in public, and I think that persons like myself who have been through this, wherever he finds anybody who is in a similar spot, and either can't make the break or has some doubts, or is being duped and doesn't recognize it, I think I can do a lot of good work.
Mr. Doyms. Then you feel the committee has done and is doing a good jobI
Mr. BF.orr. Wonderful.
Mr. Doym. That is all, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Areyou presently employed, Mr. Benoff?
Mr. BEoFF. No sir.
Mr. JACKSON. But your occupation is that of screen and radio writer I
Mr. Bzaoru. Yes, sir, and television.
Mr. JAcKsoN. In connection with the supplemental appearance of yourself, has any person made any promises orMr. B oFF. On no n iirMr. JACKSWN. This isa voluntary appearance in order to supplement your previous testimony ?
Mr. BzworF. Yes; I requested this and I appreciate being granted an opportunity.
Mr. JACKSON. May I say on behalf of the committee we are very glad to have the supplemental testimony. We appreciate your desire to clear this matter up entirely. Tho subcommittee appreciates your cooperation. Tsthere any reason why the witness should not be excused
Mr. TAvr.NSER. No.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you. You are excused.
Mr. Brown, will you raise your right hand, please? Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God!
Mr. BRowN. Ido.
Mr.JAcxwso. Be seated, please. 3508 CO)MUNIST AIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGLES AE TESTIMONY OF SOHN BROWN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, Z. B. TIETZ . Whatisyour namely 