Mr. MERIN. Milton you stateyour full name,_please I Merlin is the name, but I want to explain that that is the name tlt I have gone by privately and publicly since I graduated from college. Nfy legal name is Milton Sheppard Harrison. I only used my real name like that I think for my first marriage. In the school I used the name of my stepfather, Zuckerman. I was never legally adopted by him, and when Ileft for college I used the name Merlin.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born
Mr. MEwN. Los Angeles, March 12,1005.
Mr. TAVENNEIR. Do you appear here pursuant to a subpenaI
Mr. MERLIN. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you appear here voluntarily?
Mr. MERw. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNEln. What is your present residence?
Mr. MmiN. 445 North Croft Avenue, Los Angeles 48.
Mr. TAVFNNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. MERLIN. Writer, director, at the present time. It has been in recentyears radio and television; formerly film, formerly newspapers, publicity. I have been writing all my life, professional life.
Mr. TAVFNNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has consisted of?
Mr. MzRau. High school in Los Angeles, the first 2 years of college at what is now called UCLA; at the time it was the southern branch. T7hen I went to Berkeley and was graduated in 1925 cum laude. I majored in philology, and my side major was aesthetics.
Mr. TAVF.NNFR. How longhave you been engaged in your profession?
Mr. MEAfN. Well, when I was 15, when I was still in high school, I was once a press agent for the Orpheum. I did sports and other lines, sports work at the time, so actually it dates long before I was graduated. But from the time I left college, when I came back I got jobs on newspapers, as a matter of fact, the Santa Monica Outlook. And I have worked on magazines and on trade papers, and press agent.. So I would say from my graduation on I have off and on bee a free-lance writer, magazines, aories, books.
Mr. TAVENNZR. Will you pleai describe for the committee a little more in detail what your career has been as a writer?
Mr. Mz.RLTN. You mean specifically what I have done as a writer
Mr. TAVEN -FR. Yes.
Mr. Mzum. Well, beginning with-I suppose the entertainment industry is the most important, or did you want to go back beyond that? 3534 COMNtUNIST ACTIVITIES LN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAvMNXR. No. When did your work in the entertainment field begin I
Mr. MF.RT.I. Well, work in the entertainment industry, that started in 1934 at Paramount.
Mr. TAvRNNER. Will you begin with thatperiod?
Mr. MELIm. At Paramount-I went to Paramount-I am rather hazy on the exact dates. As I remember, it was 1934 to 1937, I think. I worked at Paramount mostly on the story board, what was then called the story board. I was assistant at different times to Ernst Lubitsch in a story capacity. I went from Patamount to Metro-Goldwyn-fayer in 1937 as assistant to Harry Rapf. I remained his assistant during the time I was at Metro, and transferred from being assistant producer actually to being a writer, because I was doing a good deal of writing and I got the credits. And I remained there as writer at Metro until 1939 or 1940, when I left Metro. As I recall it, I did some free-lance work-I don't have the date set down, but I entered radio approximately in 1940. 1 did one or two pictures in the time I was in radio, that is, I did jobs at Columbia, RKO. I collaborated on one screenplay with Alan Mowbray at Monogram. But I should say from 1940 on my professional activities were pretty well confined to radio. I started in on the Old Gold program, the show with Don Ameche years ago. The first show I contributed to reularly was Big Town. Later on I was the one who wrote for the Ginny Simms Show Everything for the Boys, which was the show starring Ronald Colman. For about 3 years I was the main one. I did Boston Blackie with Chester Morris for what I call the cycle of a year or two. I did Mr. President with Edward Arnold. I contributed first to this Hollywood Hotel Soldier Show, that it was a Camay show. I contributed to the Charles Bover Show for about 2 years. And I did a collaboration on the script for Halls of Ivy. The Halls of Ivy was a show starring Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Colman. During the last 7 or 8 months that it was on, I also directed Halls of Ivy. I also contributed scripts for the theater, which I don't remember, and I wrote in between many scripts for service shows. That is the professional activities since 1934. Prior to that time I had some connection with the industry in the sense of being a critic on a paper, and I continued that for some time, writing on some of the cultural activities in southern California for what was then called Daily Topics, published by the theater guild. My actual involvement in the industry dates from 1934 on.
Mr. TAvENNR. You are no doubt aware as a writer of the investigation that this committee has been conducting in the field of entertainment in Hollywood, with special emphasis upon the moving-picture field and the field of radio. The committee desires to know what knowledge, if any, you have regarding Communist Party activities in those fields. If you'have any luiowledge of Communist )?arty activities in those fields, we would be glad to hear from you.
Mr. Mrnxu. Well, my knowledge is based upon personal opinion and speculation and intuition. If you mean if I-I am not able to testify as to the affiliation of people in the industry. I can speak of COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3535 my own experiences, as personal opinion, personal interpretation, especially about the radio artists' guild, in which I was active as an officer, the screen writers' guild. I know what you know, much less than what you know. I mean I have been aware of the problem of the guild, and certainly I followed that with a good deal of interest.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you this question: Have you at any time been affiliated with the Communist Party movement yourself, and thus been in a position to speak of your own knowledge regarding Communist Party activities I
Mr. M u.uaN. No, sir, I have never been a member of the Communist Party, and so far as I know, I have never been a member, and this is a problem that has come day to day to me as to what is termed the caucus at guild meetings, when Communist policy is.determined. I have not, to my knowledge, been involved. I certainly have been, in the past, as I recall, at meetings with many of these people that have been named, that have appeared before your committee and have been hostile witnesses and some friendly witnesses, where they were present at those meetings that I attended. I was certainly not aware that they were called Communist fraction meetings or caucuses, so that whatever information I can impart is from an independent point of view of being invol d in activities that have since been described as being part of the ciub activity or guild activity which was influenced in any way by outside forces.
Mr. TAVENNER. What position did you hold in the radio writers' guild, that is, over what period of time?
Mr. MERLIN. Well, I was a member of the council, and I have to check the dates on this, too, from 1945 on. I was vice president in 1946 and again in 1949 and 1950. I was national president in 1951 and 1952, that is really 1952, the election was, so I was an officer of the guild during those years. I was not a charter member of the guild. I came in after it was formed, but during the period when it was involved in contract negotiations I served on the committee, negotiating committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has received considerable evidence regarding purposes of the Communist Party through its members in the radiothe writers' guild to influence the action of the guild and elect as officers of the guild members of the Communist Party. As an official of the guild during the period which you hsve mentioned, did you have any knowledge of this effort on the pert of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERlN. I certainly had no knowledge, no concrete knowledge. I would not deny that I had certain what I call suspicions or opinions about the political nature of the attachment of some members of the guild, and quite fairly, so far as I know-this is from my positionI have found out since, I mean talking with others who were members of the radio writers' guild itself, have told me some of the things that they talked about considerably. But from my position from the outset it seemed to me that the guild was able to maintain a nonpolitical position within the guild, as well as any union, and that is part, as you know, of the Authors' League of America regulation, that all activities of its affiliated guilds be nonpolitical. So we did not during those years until very recently, there was no great deviation of opinion on guild policy within te guild. We 853 CommuT ACrvITIES IN.THE LS ANGELES AREA didn't go through the samepattern of violence of convictions that the screen writers' guild did. Inasmuch as I was a member of the screen writers' guild at the time, as I remember, there was unanimity in the screen writers' guild during the period up to 1950 or 1952, because the forces of the guild were employed in getting contracts, working with the directors and the committee from the first in getting contracts with producers and packagers. The first time there was any awareness, so far as I know, of a, let us say, anti-Communist faction in the guild came in 1950. In the eastern region there was a group called We the Undersigned, which came out with an anti-Communist platform in a guild election, which was directed against the eastern officers, eastern election slate. Still in the western region there was no political issue. There was, I should say no guild awareness of the fact that there were Communists in the guild until your public hearings out here, when we were aware that you called several witnesses from the radio artists' guild to testify, and they refused to testify, and at that time it was established that there was a Communist cell in the radio writers' guild and there was, some electioneering and some activity on the part, oi the guild itself to combat this but until that time we didn't have, let us say, divisions within the guild forces.
Mr. Doym. I would like to have you identify the date. You just said "until that time."
Mr. MERLIN. Was it the last time when you called members of the radio artists' guild I
Mr. JACKSON. Last March. 
Mr. Mrzrrw. Last March you called several members of the radio writers' guild.
Mr. Domu. You mean March 1958?
Mr. MRzm. Was it 1953?
Mr. JAcO SoN. March 1953. 1952. Were you ever solicited by any person or persons to become a member of the Communist PartvI
Mr. Mna . No. In this I am again particularly considering my history, but I am sure you will want to bear with me, but later in connection with organizations which have been stated as front organizations-itis a long history, but I think it has a significant element that ties the question to myself over a period of years, and in recent years I have satisfied myself with an answer at one time. If you confine it to being approached, I suppose I would have felt sensitive to that.
Mr. JACKsoN. 
Mr. frtRmw. Did any person or persons who may have identified themselves to you as members of the Communist Party, to the best of your knowledge, take part in any such action as you have been discussing when you had knowledge of the fact that such person was actually a member of the Communist Party? That is right. The men who talked to me personally I didn't know. While I may have assumed that they were, I didn't ask them and they didn't: volunteer any information, and I must say I was surprised at some of the people *ho were revealed, because I regarded those people frankly as people like myself, who were interested in the same things.
Mr. JAmCsoN. Did you ever find yourself in a group meeting where those in attendance impressed you as being, if not actually members COMMNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3537 -of the Communist Party, at least as being in favor of and dedicated to the furtherance of Communist policy or Soviet policy?
Mr. MERLIN. That is a difficult question to answer. I don't remember any such meeting within the confines of the entertainment industry itself. I remember being, and it is very vague in my mind, many years ago in meetings that were so-called radical meetings, where we were talking about Marxism, on which there was a lot of talk but that is really past history, and they are not in the years that ? consider pertinent to the problem in Hollywood, the years when there obviously was a great growth of the Communist Party membership. But, of course, during my long history men did invite me to meetings. That is, I was not alarmed at it. But I must say that is during the pIod that I was aware that there was a great surge to the left wing. ;ut I must say I didn't know too much about it until the thirties and forties.
Mr. JACKSON. There were a lot of Communists around.
Mr. MERLIN. A lot of Communists around, but I think people didn't bother themselves about it.
Mr. JACKSON. Your testimony is then, Mr. Merlin, that you were never a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERLxN. That is right.
Mr. JACKSON. And that you were never solicited by any person to become a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERrN. That is right.
Mr. JACKSON. And that at no time did you attend a closed meeting of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERLiN. That is right. To my knowledge it was not a closed meeting, that I was aware that it was a closed meeting, I will put it that way. I mean if the people didn't identify themselves whom I met at a meeting.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, it is very unlikely that you would have been, if you were not known to be a member of the Communist Party, that you have been in any case at a closed meeting of the Communist Party. I don't recall of any incident of anybody testifying that anybody not a member was in a closed.meeting of the Communist Party. That is subject to correction, but I don't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think there are a few instances, Mr. Chairman, where it was understood that 1 or 2 individuals would be invited to such a meeting to see for themselves how the business of the meeting was conducted.
Mr. JACKSON. There may have been such instances.
Mr. TAVENNE. It was not the accepted practice.
Mr. murN. They were forewarned, in other words. On the subject of recruiting, I w-onder if I could bring out this point, that Silvia Richards, who appeared as a friendly witness before this committee, discussed that matter where she thought she remembered seeing m name on a paper at a routine recruiting session of the cell of which she was a member at that time in the radio writers' guild, my name am one of the names, along with others, was brought out for somebody to work on, and these are her words. . I testify that, in fact, if they worked upon me for that purpose, I was not aware of it. She also has the memory that apparently somebody said that he Would work on me, and mentioned the fact that that 358 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE -LOS ANGELES AR A was a tough problem or ticklish problem, or whatever that meant, and she pointed out whenever an individual's name was mentioned it was very natural-it was abnormal, as a matter of fact if they didn't have some background information; in other words, ii I had ever been a member ofthe Communist Party or had some connection with it, they would have been after that history before they worked on me. I don t know what that amounts to, but it seems to me coming from one who was apparently a member of the party, it was of significance to me, because I didn't know that I was discussed.
Mr. JACxsON. Who was assigned I
Mr. MrznuN. I asked Silvia, and she couldn't remember. She thinks--again, this is of significance-she thinks it was probably Sam Moore. Well, I know Sam Moore's history. Mr. Moore never approached me, never solicited me, and I worked very closely with him on the same committee that he was on.
Mr. JACKsoNr. Did you ever discuss your membership with any individualI
Mr. MEzitiN. Yes. I don't know whether you would call me a member or not. I directed 2 plays, 2 plays and 1 program for them in 1932 or 1933. Do you want to know the circumstances as I remember themI
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, I do, but let me ask you this: Were you a member of the John Reed Club I
Mr. MnELIN. Well, I don't know what membership meant. I can't remember being a member. I must have been a member if I was a director of the play.
Mr. JAcKsoN. What was the extent of your affiliation or connection with the John Reed Club?
Mr. MELIN. All I remember about the John Reed Club was that there was a lot of discussion. It would be extremely dim. I was extremely active in those days when I was not doing a regular play.
Mr. JTACKSON. When did that occur?
Mr. MaRurN. The dates?
Mr. JACKsoN. Yes. 
Mr. Mrazma. We put those on, we took over a little church in Hollywood and I think it was on for 2 nights and there were 2 plays, one of which was a segment of a play in later Paramount shows here in Los Angeles at the old Orange Grove Theater. My connection with the John Reed Club at that time was as director, but I must again say I was excited about the project of an experimental radical theater, we called it. I think this was the group that in New York favored such plays as Waiting for Lefty, which as you remember, was terribly exciting theatrically. In fact. I was all this time active in Santa Monica, in the Santa Monica Bay Musical Association, and also with plays that they put on, and publicity work, and I was around that. Incidentally, the John Reed Club itself at the time had practically no connection with Hollywood as such.
Mr. JACKSON. .Who would you say were the moving factors in the John Reed Club at that*time I
Mr. MzRuN. The only person I can remember, outside of the actors, there were a couple of actors in the play, one who is fairly well known as an actor in the movies, and another one that you know. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3539 
Mr. JACKSON. We *ill go off the record. (Discussion off the record.) 
Mr. JAcxsor. Back on the record, please.
Mr. MZRLTN. I have no memory of the administrative aspect. It was a pretty clubby kind of thing, in my mind, as I remember it. I got into it attending a session on poetry with some friends of mine, and all I remember is talking about poetry and meeting some poets. And then I remember directing the play tor the John Reed Club. Probably there was some talk about Marxism and revolutionary movement and that sort of thing, but it just seemed very dusty in those days.
Mr. Dom, . Meaning by that what revolutionary movement?
Mr. MERL N. That was a general term, so far as Iremember it, for practically anythingthat had changed, because we were discussing it in connection with surrealists in France and in connection with artists and poets, something which had to do with changes in literature and in music, but it also referred to the changes in the world because at that time is when the Soviet Union had not been recognized and there was a great deal of comment about it. I think they talked about Marxist theories; I know I did, I talked about that and I read a great deal about it.
Mr. DoYLe. When you say you did a great deal of talking about it, under what circumstances?
Mr. MzRLI. I mean, maybe I would be talking with other people about it. I don't mean I agreed with it or I accepted it, but it was one subject of discussion.
Mr. DoYLz. Where?
Mr. MzELN. Discussion with people with whom I talked about it.
Mr. Do m. I know, but from where did that talk about a revolution head?
Mr. MiNi. I am sorry, Congressman. I think I used the word "revolutionary" in a generic sense rather than in the sense of a revolu. tionary movement, in the special sense.
Mr.DoL. I know, but the Marxist theory of revolution in a politieal sense, you said there was a great deal of talk about the revolution. I was wondering where that headed from, if the members were talking about it, it spearheaded some place.
Mr. MzRr~x. I don't recall their talking about a revolution. They were talking about the revolutionary movement in art and literature and that sort of thing.
Mr. Donz. You made mention of Marxist theory.
Mr. Mica". Yes.
Mr. Doiv,. That was political?
Mr. MELiN. That was political.
Mr. Donz. Where did it come from I
Mr. Mvuair. As a matter of fact at the time I would not have been concerned about where that came #rom, because it didn't occur to me at that time this was anything sinister. This was something, incidntally I think is worth interest to the committee: At the time I went to coleg, this was never in the curriculum.
Mr. Dorm. What?
Mr. Mznzjx. Marx was never mentioned. I mean I went through philosophy and was a trained college graduate, and I hadn't even eard the name of this man come to my attention. That is partly one 8540 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES 114 THE LOS ANGCLICS AREA of the reasons that I became interested in it. I have another personal reason, an intellectual reason: i, having had a good dea.) of philosophy, was interested in later years in one of tile philosophers called Hegel. That is pertinent, might be of genuine interest to this committee. The philosophy was a rather elaborate philosophic system called idealistic dialectics. I heard that Marx had turned this upside down and made it dialectio inaterialisn, and I read him with a good deal of interest, of course, and particu. larly his philosophy, to know what it was, because it was my opinion then and still is that Marx cannot be regarded as a philosopher, and my opinion of him as an economist is very small. There is no prin. ciple that bears any relation to reality. That is the kind of discussion actually that I remember being en. gaged in. I remember when people would quote Marx to ine as gospel truth it would aplmll me, because this was the kind of thing that was pretty far from my immediate interest, because my interest was in the discussion of the things I was interested in.
Mr. DoyiLx. Because of your interest in such things., did you find yourself at any time a member of a group or involved in a group that was later identified as a Communist front? You understand my question I
Mr. MA:fhaN. Well, you understandidentified. I was certainly later identified with organizations which have been
Mr. Doyu.. What organizations?
Mr. MERtaN. Well, the [Ilolly wood] Anti-Nazi League, the Holly. wood Writers' Mobilizamml. fhowover, t want to point. out I don't find any continuity outside of myself. Other than that, I don't think any of those things sprung out of the John Reed Club, because I don't remember any of those people I knew in the John Reed Club.
Mr. Doyi.m. You understand my question. I don't know where they sprung from, but because of your interest in philosophy which y'ou have related, and the revolutionary movement in the arts and literature, or for any other reason, did you at any time find yourself at a later date as having been a member, or find yourself a member of any org nization which was later foun. to be a Communist front
Mr. M1KRIN. Well, it was partly for interest and partly, I think more importantly an interest in the causes that those organizations represented.
Mr. Doiw. It seems that I don't make my question clear to yon. Did you, because of any interest you had, whatever that interest was, find yourself at any time a member of R group which either at that time or later was found to be a part of the Communist front?
Mr. MrLIN. As I understand yotir question, I must have been, yes.
Mr. DoYtLz. What group?
Mr. MuaMN. The [Hollywood] Anti-Nazi Ueaguo and the [Hollywood Writers'] Mobilization.
Mr. DOYLeY. rhat is the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. MramIN. The Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. I think any writer of Hollywood, if he was going to contribute to the war effort would have to be a member of this according to the record, and I still think it did a fine job' and the [Hollywo7od] Anti-Nazi League, I think is not comparable, however, because my affiliation with the League of American Writers is in another capacity. It was not, as I remember, being active in this. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3541 
Mr. Don. -Were you a member of the Council of Arts and Sciences?
Mr. M a,;. Not that I remember. If I ever became a member of it, it was insignificant, one of your dollar membership..
Mr. Doyij. I know you wanted to ask him something.
Mr. 'T'A^vNNR. Yes. Weren't you instructing at a school that was sponsored by the League of American Writers I
Mr. Mluu. Yes, I was. I think this was 194:. I followed . I think, Orson Welles. I forget who it was before nl. I taught radio writing.
Mr. 'I'.xE:fNEIi. Yot were beginning to describe your work as in. struchor tt the radio school conducted by the lkeaguuo of American Writer's
Mr. AIIIN. Yes. This was ailts, So falr as I could estimate it, of some , who had done it little writing ail who were interested in radio. 1ie class was operated as a workshop, devoted to rtdio scripts for tio wir effort, ai scril)ts for tie 1.s Angeles fire department, (lefelst, inerchant inarine. Some of these people were professional writorJ. I have no particular meinory of the organization. I know it was identified as a Communist front. I must (tetify that there was nover any pressure on me as to what my instruction would be, what thle content was, from any outside source. I cannot remember anybody connected with this school, because ily relationship to tile people there was a personal one, aimd I don't rimnemnier being a member of the orgaiir4tion. If I was, I don't, remeniber its activities. M. I'AVY.NNrn. You told me in a general way you were familiar with (lhe testimony before the committee to th effet. that the Writers' Congrts held in October 1943 at tile University of California was sponsored by niombers of the Communist Party through the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. MAsmr ra. I read a good deal about it, and I am familiar with certain aspects of this congress. As a matter of fact, I think I was on some of the committees wien it was started, because I had boon in a course at UCIA, a year or-so before, and this wats to be a giguntio project. . wont to New York for the Si gnal Corps. I was an expert consultantl which ncans it screen prodcier there. I was associated, but I was in civilian capacity. I went to New York for a period of 3 or 4 months during the period when the groundwork, actually, of the congress was done. When I returned 1 forgot how long it was before the congress actually started, but i became a member of the conunittees preparing for it, and I remember being concerned because in the Writers' Congress there was not a sigle Paper on the novel or poetry, so they assigned them to me originally, because my interest. was in Iictures.
Mr. TAvExNNBR. Let me ask you this question: You are also famil. iar with tihe testimony, are you not, that the speakers who took part in this Writers' Congress were very largely selected by a committee of Communist Party members?
Mr. MmRLIN. No, I am not aware of that; I can only speak of my own experience on 1 or 2 of the committees where I was not aware of any outside complexion of speakers. As a matter of fact, the only committee I was most active in, where I presented my own paper, had 8542 eoMMaSr A nVMZS n? T=o LO ANOMG ARA Carleton Morse, who writes One Man's Family, and Ann Wolff, v'ho was then with him. I can't remember anybody else. . This Was really a panel committee p epiiing for the particular subject, which was, I think, the home front, whatever it was, what the civilian was doing for the war effort. I was nok aware' in my activity on this cop mttee of any instruction from outside as to content or policy or what not. I can only speak from my own experience. There is no question about the testimony which has been given, that a large number of the people on the committee of which I was a member were apparently members of the Comunist Party. You don't have to have large numbers that bear great influence. One member on a committee, as we found out, often can have tremendous influence.
Mr. TAvENzNr Did you at any time sign a Communist Party election petition I
Mr. MzULw. I don't recall any. The only petition that has been recTalled in my mind, although rdo not remember it, but I am told that I signed it, was in 1932, when I apparently signed a petition to put the Communist Party on the ballot. Now, I cannot remember the circumstances of signing it. All I can say is that if I did, if I signed it with any idea that this was incriminating or that I was in sympathy, blanket sympathy with the purposes of the Communist Party I must plead guilty and plead guilty on the ground of insanity. certainlyy if this problem would be presented today I would have t6--well, theoretically I would consider it, but practically I know I would not sign it, but theoretically I would probably debate with myself whether it is better to have the Communist Party on the ballot. My opinion is, based on my own experience, I would much rather have them identified than to have to dig down for them, because it is hard enough even when they are exp sed, to identify anybody as a Communist.
Mr. JACKsON. Mr. Merlin, do I understand you to say, in the light of what is happening in contemporary history, that the Communist Party is in any sense a political party
Mr. Muniu. Well, if we were to sit down and talk about it at some length, I probably would agree with you today, theoretically. I would say, however, practically to me it is like the term "freedom," Congressman, where it says freedom, not license. I mean there is licensA and there is freedom.
Mr. JACKsON. Of course, license is never the case in the Communist Party. The Communist principle seems to be to follow blindly the directives transmitted by a foreign power. In the general Communist political policy, now, that is what is called the practical policy.
Mr. MzRuN. We probably agree with each other.
Mr. JACKsON. What I wanted to inqiire about is your present feeling, with special emphasis on what is in our understandink the Communist Party of the United States and your present impression of what its activities consist, whether they consist of the activities of a political party such as we are used to, or whether'it is in fact nothing but an international conspiracy which seeks to overthrow all constitutional forms of government
Mr. MnwrN. Well, I am sure I ape. I will say this, it would probably be simpler all the way around if there could be a clear definition in everybodys mind what the Communist Party or membership in the Comimunist Party means. Ittwere established, I mean legally estab- oMM -sT ACTrITME IN T LOS ANGELES AREA 3543 wished, that membership in it would be conspiracy against the Government, I think it would probably disabuse a lot of people's minds that still are tempted by a lot of slogans. However there is the other problem which I think is a tremendous one, that iY it is driven underground completely, how does anybody have knowledge of what kind of subterfuge is being used, or what kind of dummy organizations? There are still an awful lot of people who may be interested in something that is, for the want of another word, we will call a progressive party that has stated political purposes that are sometimes not openly subversive. In what way can they detect that it is being influenced by the Communist Party I
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, that is a difficult question, the right of any legitimate political party. For instance, the Socialist Party in the United States, I disagree with it wholeheartedly, but I still respect the right. It is not engaged in conspiratorial activities. It asks the voters to vote for its candidates and makes speeches for them, and Part is beyond question. I the legitimate nature of the S as of being anything use Normadon't think anyone woulr izen. but a loyal America However, I do I think those circumstances and nditions obtain by the Com]nd.plan advoca in the things d e or the program munist Party. my i ing of that hort and saymy t itof'elatio.).to we wilf .Well,
Mr.
Mr signingt toda7. no id 1932 boaA the_ petitionin n nd a sis in back atmy private his 9 y,'think When I I an op .unity to .press give the restoft~ cun my mind Iihave a logi for it, t this their tho ght about it. I do not ign it todW y. ay. I does not ean I would sign imony Isthat yo were on p your IMy.ecol
Mr. TyNNED. with the Arts, b cbn somewh uncertain n a t ,yo >uncil lo. ood. nd Prof ions ( Scien that probout to me Fortuately, b n~k po Wellitt has Y
Mr. em.. tw_-, thl 9 didso inM19 Ruw. ably e otes tha kept o fileoi when it w pointeout to me radio television and e. my lecture because it was on t' ulject writer, and e notes are ay-I.iememer it, andJ emembe it fairly well, since 1 9. It was completel acad ie*discussio of a very important mat r to the acctr-and I.ucei . As I no remember, ques upon the discussion w confined to the transition of radio 'o to television. the conversion of ere that the A. S. P ew out of another It has been conten organization. %fr.Doma. Were you a member of the independent committee for the Arts Sciences and Professions InstituteI . Yes. I am glad I brought that with me. If I was a
Mr. ilr member I was a dollar member, giving up time for it. I don't remember being active in the organization, an at the end of the war I am sure I was not a member. I have made the statement several times, and I would like to repeat it, that I was not actively a member of a front organization after they were designated so by the Attorney General. No-w,I may be mistaken. There may be an overlapping of dates, but to my knowledge I was not. I disengaged myself, m other words, when they were so identified. 3544 COMMUNs AcrT'ITIEs N THE LOs AxosLEB AE Now, my appearance at this institute, as I say, was a routine one. I have made many such appearances, talking about television. In fact, I have been on the committee concerning television since 1944, at the time I appeared in 1946 or 1947, so that is absolutely correct. I also was invited to what was called a thought-control conference held at the Beverly Hills Hotel, to study thought policing, to answer what is your experience in thought control, what has been your experience with the Los Angeles Times. I have reviewed pictures for the Los Angeles Times since 1933, 20 years. Well, I told them, "I will be glad to speak to you about my knowledge about thought control." Well, I told the group in 2 minutes I didn't know what they considered thought control, that there had never been any pressure, nobody told me what to write, so I didn't have any difficulties with the gentlemen of the Los Angeles Times and was free at all times to give an honest opinion. Those are the only occasions I can remember where I appeared. I did appear in 1945 at UCLA at a meeting which was under the auspices of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, when the leader of the Phi Beta Kappa called me, and I said, "Why did you ask me to come?" And they said they didn't know anybody else that could give them the facts. I know it has been mentioned also, and I was there.
Mr. DoYL. Were you a delegate to the National Labor Conference for Peace held in Chicago in September 19491
Mr. MriN. No, I don't remember being in Chicago but one time.the only time I have been in Chicago has been between trains, maybe 4 or 5 times. The only time I stayed more than half a day inChicago was this last October.
Mr. JACKsON. Your answer is "No"; that you were not a delegate to that
Mr. MzRxn. I don't remember it at all. I don't know how I could have been, because I have not been in Chicago more than a half day except this last October.
Mr. Do mn Well, you might have been chosen a delegate without going Mg. Mmn . If I was chosen as a delegate, I was not aware of it, and I have no memory of it. Please understand, if I had been, I would be quite willing to testify.
Mr. TAVENNR. There has been considerable evidence received by the committee identifying members of the Radio Writers' Guild who were members of the Communist Party and active in the work of the Radio Writers' Guild. I want to review some of those names with you, and ask you whether or not any of those persons endeavored at any time to influence you in matters relating to guild work. Sam MooreI
Mr. Mnumx. Well, again I preface this by saying that during that time all the names that you mentioned might have endeavored to convince me of their point of view on guild policy. I would either agree or oppose it, but it was not on the basis of a political point of view. For instance, about Sam Moore, I worked on committees with him. I was national-,Rresidqnt and vice president, and worked with him on the guild negotiation of the contract. I worked with him then and I also disagreed with him very violently. coumiT ACr~iirTs sN THE LOS ANGLES AemA 8545 You mentioned Mr. Moore as being a Communist, and he certainly did speak very favorably about it, but in hindsight now I can find patterns appear that his interest-that it might have been an eneavor. In my looking back-I have been objective about this thing, now-I can look back and it seems to me I can see patterns whichI didn't see while we were engaged in it, but I can assure you I was fairly vigilant, particularly when I was national president, and very sensitive to this problem. I also, when I was not sure at any time, talked to my predecessors, and those who were the officers, about it. Mypeoyle tell me that he gave us a fine job, as anybody can see.
Mr. '1rAVENNER. Owen Vinson.
Mr. MERmN. I think I may have met the gentleman and been introduced to him once. The name is familiar. In fact, he was the former husband of Pauline Hopkins.
Mr. TAVENNER. Jack XobinsonI
Mr. Mmurw. I have known Jack Robinson as a member of the council for a number of years. He has certainly never brought undue influence to bear on me in any open fashion at all, just as another member of the council.
Mr. TAVENNEi. Marv Robinson, his wifeI
Mr. MERLIN. I knowher only as the wife of Jack Robinson. I don't think she was ever active in the guild councils, maybe a member of the guild. I don't recall her having-been active in the guild.
Mr. TA VENEa. William Alland?
Mr. MZmuN. I don't know him. Is he a radio writer, William AllandI
Mr. TA ENNER. Yes.
Mr. MERLN. I don't know him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Virginia MullenI
Mr. MERlIN. Virginia Mullen? Never heard of her.
Mr. TAVENNER. Reuben Ship?
Mr. MERLImN. Reuben Ship I know quite Ivell as a member of the council of the guild, and he was what I would call a revolutionary member of the council. I have been in conflict on guild policy with him on many points. But, again to distinguish between a position on guild policy and something which comes out of an outside instruction on policy is very difficult for me.
Mr. 'IAVENNER. Michael Davidson?
Mr. MERL N. Michael Davidson was secretary of the guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time that you were vice president?
Mr. MERuN. Yes, and national president too. And he was a very efficient secretary as a matter of fact. I know that he has been suspected of being a Communist or at least sympathetic to the Communists for a long time. I know as much about him as you do. Probably you know more than I do. I know that I have had tremendous differences of opinion with Davidson on guild policy and I will say this, in my capacity as an officer of the guild, when i put on pressure he would bow to my priority as an officer and he was a hired man. What his activities were outside of the guild I can't testify, because he never told me but he had tremendous interest in the guild. Mir. TAvz.NER. Gene Stone ?
Mr. M&RUN. Gene Stone was a member of the council for some time, and I think was treasurer of the guild. 3546 COMMUNIST ACTMTIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Pauline HopkinsI
Mr. MERLaN. Pauline Hopkins was a member of the council for many years, and formerly, I understand, was vice president of the guild in Chicago. She came from Chicago.
Mr. TAvzNNE. You were aware, were you not of the organized effort on the part of those persons whose names I have mentioned to support men for the positions that they occupied in the guild?
Mr. MzeJUJ. No sir, I was not. Mr. Wheeler asked me if the nominating committee had such members, and so far as I can determine, there was only one on all those nominating committees that have been under question by this committee. The rest are people that, so far as I know, have not been under question, and I will say this: When I ran for national office in 1951, it was the end of 1951 prior to my predecessor being opposed by "We the Undersigned" in New York they didn't oppose me. This was an anti-Communist group in Noew York. So I was not opposed by the anti-Communist group, and there was no request to withdraw that certainly I was aware of. I am sure that they would be supporting me today. But, you see, the guild elections, once the nomination has been made, have been pretty unanimous. I would say there have not been any great divisions of opinion by the officers of the guild, so far as I have been able to determine. The nominations were pretty well determined by the wishes of the members to put in people who could be experienced in negotiating contracts and committee work. There have been groups in the guild who said "We want this man or that man," but there were no divided election lists named, and there was no electioneering the way there was in the Screen Writers' Guild in two instances in the eastern region.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether any of the persons whose names I have mentioned opposed you for election to local office in the guild?
Mr. MERL . I don't recall. They never opposed me publicly. Privately I don't know what they aid. Publicly there was never any opposition to any members of the slate that was finally nominated.
Mr. DoLe. Who determined that slate?
Mr. ME.RIm. The membership. Two members of the 5-member nominating committee were appointed by the council, and the membership at large appoints the other 3.
Mr.IDonx. How many of those people that were on the committee that determined the slate were Communists?
Mr. MzRLrs. Of all the nominating committees that nominated me I only found one that has been before your committee as an unfriendly witness. To repeat what I said before, I don't think the membership of the guild at large had any awareness at all that there was any kind of Communist influence in the guild, if there was such, or that any of those people were Communists until the testimony before the committee. And there is also something I am sure you have been told. It was a traditional policy, you see, of the Authors' League of America and the Radio Writers' Guild, so that the natural tendency has been to resent any allegations or rumors from the outside, and I think that the appearance before the committee-I put in parenthetically that I have my own particular way to try to test the reaction of our members, as I collected it that after you had called witnesses here and they refused to testify on their possible connection with that COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3547 kind of people it was the obligation of the council member who had been called by the committee he can do whatever he wants before the commitee, but he should resign from office in response to popular opinion, in fact, did resign.
Mr. DoYn. What is your official position now with the guild ?
Mr. MERLIN. I have no position. I am a member of the guild. I ran for the council after my term of office for one reason only. As a matter of fact, I ran for the office of national president with some reluctance. I guess everybody likes to be elected. I was told I was the only person who could solve a very important friction which was arising in the work of the screenwriters, the screen and radio writers, and dramatists. You are probably aware of the fact there has been great dissension between the guilds on the subject of television. So I assumed that office, and, of course, naturally my effort, still there, that is, is to represent my guild. It is a very crucial thing, but you are no doubt familiar with that, and I say it is pertinent in many ways, and it might perhaps determine the activity. It was a very crucial thing. The Screen Writers' Guild and the Authors' League of America negotiated and we struck against the television producers. I was on the committee for the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. DoYLE. What was the approximate date?
Mr. MERLIN. This was in 1952. It happened in the summer of 1952, when I was out of town. When I was out of town this happened. I was on vacation. The Screen Writers' Guild had a general membership meeting and made a resolution not to support the strike. This was quite obvious to anybody that knew me and my stand about the period of the whole problem, was against my wishes, and when I first found out I returned with the full expectation of resigning, because there is no use to be head of a guild when everybody disagrees with you. I felt that the majority of the membershiip was not for the leadership, that the leadership of the guild had been opposed to this, and thus I was opposed to the council because I didn't have representation, which I did. And I lost my interest and I resigned. I didn't want even to have the position of representative for a particular reason. I was appointed in 1949 to be a member of the national television committee of the Authors' League of America by the then president of the Authors' League of America, and I retained this position, although I have been more or less indelicately asked to resign by the Radio Writers' Guild, but I have not, because I feel a greater responsibility within this committee under instructions of the Radio Writers' Guild Council. So thus again, also, I can conclude these negotiations with the TV Alliance, and I think, as a matter of fact, I am the only functional man on this committee. I don't know whether you want to go into this whole thing, but there is a tremendous problem within the Authors' League itself, which stems from the Radio Writers' Guild, and there are attempts being made to solve that. It is my opinion and I believe the opinion of the majority that the only way is to reorganize the guild and include the Screen Writers' Guild as an active part.
Mr. JACKsoN. The committee does not desire to go into the internal problems of labor unions or guilds. 3548
Mr. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TH fRIN. LO5 ANGELES AREA I realize that. I obviously am not entitled to give any information oi this except as it is pertinent to what I would call out. side influences, and I know that there have hen accusations nude in the Radio Writers' Guild, by guild members within the Radio Writers' Guild, and this has been tied up with other alh,gations that, as I have heard it said, when the communistt PartV failed to cagtlire tlo Screen Writers' Guild they went to the Radio Writers' (Guihfwith th thought that they might capture television. I think it is pertinent to see if there are any attempts toward capturing television.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, isn't it a fact that the ladii) Writers' Guild was represented at fraction mneetings--I haven't a very clear recollect ion so that we know whether or not the efforts were successful-tlhat those efrorts were ide andh that representatives of the Radio Writers' (Guild at least got broad, general directives and catlle to certain conclusions a1d an egrements within the fraction meetings as to what policies should be pursuedl That, 1 am ( llite coltident, is a matter of sworn testimony, so we do know that tIle effort was Made, and we are trying to deternline, of course, to whit extent those efforts wele successfiil, if at all. I think the record will show positively, so that we cannot be accused of Induly interfering in tile guild work or in any group or organization, but'we do know that the situation did obtain, and for that reason, to the extent necessary iin tile investigation of Communist inufii ration, we do feel that we have an obligation to go into tile guilds in soiiie cases as we have ia the past, in unions, where we have that definite information. Air. MENFRlIN. Well, I think, too in the light of the general statement made by what was thenl called the McCarran committee last year ill its lml)lislhed testimony, that the leadershi p) of the guild was Conmuunist dominated, t here shouh be sone clarification, because the guild has suffered tremendously and I personally have suffered tremendously. I was attempting to counterattack that last June as an officer in a Communist-dolninated union on the basis of the testimony presented to this committee. So far as f have been able to determine, there was testimony by three members of the Radio Writers' Guild that they were not Communists. So far as I have read the testimony, those were allegations and not thie kind of testimony that I have heard from this committee, where it has been demanded to be corroborated, so naturally the Radio Writers' Guild, under that kind of cloud in the public relations sense, has had a very tough problem. It has been, I think, reasoned that in good measure some of the actions taken by the Radio Writers' Guild were for such purposes. I testify in my own personal case here, as I tried to point out at the beginning that the Radio Writers' Guild, so far as my experience is concerned has confined itself, as well as any guild I know, to the problem at hand, that is, the securing of contracts up to the time when there was a great struggle for jurisdiction of TV. My interpretation of that is only a personal one and we have no evidence, but I would like to testify I was not aware of any outside policy which might have influenced the committee in any way it would not, have done otherwise. In other words, since its inception the Radio Writers' Guild has attempted to enter into contracts, and that has been the work of the guild. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TUEIOAL ANGELES AREA 3,549 
Mr. Dow,. What year were you president of the Screen Writers' Guildl
Mr. Mf mrLN. Never the Screen Vriters' Guild, just the Radio Writers' Guild. I wns a inember of the .Screen Writers' uild.
Mr. Doir. Of the ]ladio Writers' Guild 1
Mr. M, rtJN. Of the Utndio Writers' Guild. Mfr. Jovs. Wht yearly
Mr. Mraii,.T-4. I was national president in 19.12. Actually the national president of the Radio Writers' Ouild is in a little different position, let us say, fthn the president of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. DoYrLE. Well, you had a council.
Mr. MrEJILI. No, f did not while in the national. 
Mr. )oyr,r,. A board of directors or something.
Mr. MEriI.JN. TJhere is a national council which is separated into three sections.
Mr. l)eov,r. But in Ihe ]lollvwod urea here, y0oii were what offIcer?
Mr. MEriN. I have been vice president, Buitas national president I didn't even have a seat on the council. I appeared but didn't have a seat on the council.
Mr. Doe,. I am hearing in mind one further thing I think was in your statement. You mide some reference to the fact, in the line of opinion, saying you kind of identified the.s, people trying to influence you or trying to inflence policy. 1 th ink you usel the word "identify," in other words, as coming to your attention they were trying to influence some committee on policies. You made it clear that they did not influence you, but at least the impression I have in my mind that I would like to clear up here was that you recognized there were some people in the group who were frying to influence policies, and while you didn't identify them as Commiiunists at that time, perhaps some of them later were identified as Communists. I wondered when you came on to flint realization.
Mr. MERLIN. Wel, I di say that, but I don't remember the context.
Mr. DoYLe. I am not, sure that I used the exact language, but I think that is substantially as you said, that there was a time in your awareness when you were aware of the fact that there were some members of the group that were trying to influence policy.
Mr. MimmN. Well, may I put it this wayI First, that influencing the policy as such that is, if a council member takes a position on a guild policy which is against my position, for instance, whether I agree with him, I cannot say that is something which is from the outside. You don't mean that.
Mr. Doy.. Oh, no.
Mr. MrRLIr. But I would mean we had some that had some ulterior motive in formulating the policy.
Mr. DOYLe. That is the purport of my question. I mean this: I can understand how you and other leaders of the group were not aware back in 1952 of the fact that some members, some active members in the group, were bringing in a policy that was determined outside of your own meetings. Now, I may be in error, but, as I recall,
Mr. Chairman, we have some testimony, or I am under the impression we have, that people were definitely holding caucuses.
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, we have.
Mr. DoyLm. And then bringing into the meetings in which you were either presiding as chairman or vice president, they were bringing 3550 COMMUNIST acTIvxnzs IN THE L4w ANGELzS aE in policies as a result of caucuses held outside of your meetings. That is as I recall the testimony we have before this committee, and that is what I am attempting to understand, why that didn't come under your observation.
Mr. NERN. Well, that is pretty hard to determine. I might explain this, for instanceMr. Doyn. The reason I am asking you that question, sir, putting it up to you that way, is that we are interested in knowing how far back those interests go. I am not inferring even that you were in any way part or parcel of it, you understand.
Mr. MRLx. I understand the question, and it is not only a pertinent question but it is a question I asked myself all the time, you know, why didn't I detect something here, and I still sayMr. JACKSON. Why didn't you detect it?
Mr. MERUN. And being vigilant, being sensitive to the problem, as I say, I would say in fact there have been actions taken-now, I don't know whether I was in favor or not, probably was not--on which certain persons who were members of the same group did have entirely violent disagreement on several policies and actions, I found policies whieh must have been directed from the outside, because I felt it would destroy the guild; then I certainly felt it was a terribly big problem, but we were in complete disagreement. So it is awfully hard for me to say what was the policy, even if it was dictated outside.
Mr. JACKSON. You were aware, at least, there were policies that were being dictated from the outside?
Mr. MEaN. Well, I certainly suspected that people were talking about those outside of, let us say, the councils. I was aware of it. I did not hear anything about what they talked about.
Mr. JACKSON. in one way or other, then, you logically would have been aware of the fact that they were talking about it in groups outside. I mean no more than this, in other words, that they were talking about it together at least in small groups, because they came in and acted in accord in small groups. And the purport of that assumption on my part is that you and other leaders were aware of the fact that there were decisions that were being made by small groups outside of your meetings, and that those decisions were projected into your meetings.
Mr. MERLRw. You see, as a part of this until the television problem came up, there wasn't any great basic difference, so that definitely our members were getting-as a matter of fact , I asked Silvia Richards this question, what would you do in that, still how could they recommend a policy when everything seemed to be the same way. In other words, we were getting the contract for our members, this was pretty true, because what point would there be in the Communist group being led astray, not in our favor when they took a firm stand against the network, too, because this was the position of the membership, you know.
Mr. JAiosow. My impression is that the Communist Party in Hollywood moved in ways other than work on contracts.
Mr. Mnuw. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. I won't pursue the question further, but can you tell me how far back you were aware of the fact that some decisions were being made outside of your own meetings ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3551 
Mr. MnRun. Well, the only time that I personally had a feeling, I should say this dates back toMr. JACKSON. By decisions, I mean decisions by people that you later, at least, came to recognize were-Mr. MERuN. Where I felt personally that there were reasons that were outside the guild interest that they should take this position was really actually around 1952.
Mr. JACKSON. 1952, the early part of the year?
Mr. MErI. No, it came in the middle of the year, and it was connected with a particular event in issue.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you very much.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Michael'Davidson has been identified in testimony before the committee as having been a member of the Communist Party cell organized within the Radio Writers' Guild. You have today told us that he was the executive secretary during the period when you were president and also vice president.
Mr. MERLIN. He was executive secretary of our western region. He was originally the executive secretary of the eastern region, and he was brought here, as I understand, because of the health of his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was he brought here?
Mr. MERIN. I think that is probably this date, gentlemen. Well, it was before, because he was head of the office, and it must have been around 1947 or 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does he hold a position now in the Radio Writers' Guild?
Mr. MrRLN. I understand that he resigned and his resignation was accepted. He resigned once, then he rescinded the resignation. I wasn't there when his change of heart was made. I accepted it, as a matter of fact, when I was there. I was not there in the interim period when he had returned, but I understand be did resign and is no longer in the guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did he resign?
Mr. MERL . I wasn't present, but it was told to me afterward at a membership meeting, I guess it was in September or October.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of 1953?
Mr. MERLiN. 1953. There had just been an election of the guild.
Mr. TAvENER. During the period when you were president or vice president of the guild, was Mr. Aubrey Finn connected with the organization?
Mr. MERLIN. He was counsel for the western region.
Mr. TAVENNER. He appeared as a witness before this committee and refused to answer questions, relying upon the fifth amendment.
Mr. MERT N. So 1 understand.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is he connected at this time with the guild?
Mr. MEPuw. I know nothing of that. I don't know whether he is or not.. I have discussed this issue with certain members of the guild, and I don't know whether any action has been taken, because an election was just held and there is a new council, and it is for the council to take action.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether any of the other persons whose names I mentioned during the course of your examination as having been identified as Communist Party members are still members of the council of the guild? 3552 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIF8 IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA 
Mr. MERI N. There is only one that I know of, and I understand she was elected again during this last election for only one term, which means less votes. That is Pauline Ilopkins. As it matter of fact, in the two elections which have been held since this information has become familiar to the guild membership, she is the only one of all of those that has been returned to oflico. My only exla nation is that she is a widow. 1 don't know why it is. All the others, so far as I know, itre people who have not been identilied as Commnunists.
Mr. TA NNER. ]lave you engaged in foreign travel I
Mr. MAimui. No. To Mexico. I have been to Tijuana, if that is Mexico.
Mr. TAVENNFR. In askiiig you the questions which have been propounded to you, have we subst4iltiftlly covered the matters that you desired to bring to the attention of the committee I
Mr. MLIN. Yes. I talk too rapidly, you Fay. For tit I am sorry, and if I seeim to have been overeager to discuss matters of the guihl itself, please believe me for the record 1 am not entitled to discUs guild policies as suel, except where it is attendant to the problem at hand, and anything [ say is based only on personal opinion and experience and since Ido have a rather spectacular experience here, personally I find that I nust draw certain conchsions, and for the purpose of testimony I can testify to that identification of anybody with what I felt harlned anybody. As a matter of fact, my purpose in bringing this iu) is that I would like to forestall what has been a question to me which has been to my personal concern to me and my profession, and as a citizen, that is the need to prove my innocence, and also have a tinie getting a job. You probably know about the confused situation in the television and radio industry, where even the mention of a name in connection with such means that you are lost and you don't know what to do about it. I ask the parties concerned to relieve other people of responsibility, but this means nothing to them. So ihe reason I am down here is, one, personal, and the other is to be of any assistance I can be to you to help in something that I think is a thing that is needed and that will be of benefit in my success and additionally for the guild. There is a personal reason for my being here, too.
Mr. TAVENNF.R. In your opinion would the Radio Writers' Guild endorse for an important position or any position in its organization a person known to be a member of the Communist Party I
Mr. MEnaN. I think it would be impossible today. I think the conclusions of this last election here--I don't know what happened in the East, but in the council, present council I think there are members that are pretty well known as being anti-Communist.
Mr. TAVENNzR. Is an effort being made within your guild to remove from positions of leadership members or persons who have been shown to be members of the Communist Party I
Mr. MrmtrN. Yes. This has been rather informal, and for certain purposes there is a great division of opinion between, I think wellmeaning members whether this should be made a big issue or whether it can be done effectively, as I think it has been done. I myself have talked with people on the subject, and, as a matter of fact, it was antici. COMMUNISr ACTIVITIES IN THI, LOS ANGELES AREA 3553 pated, as a matter of fact, in the last election that if there was any great problem there would be electioneering based on a program.
Mr. TAvrNNEw . This committee during its investigation has indiall organizations concated itsgreat interest in making availa ble cerned the Communist Party membership of eadersi its field, based on its view that it is a very important field and one in which the Coin( propjlgnnda activities designedd Intinist., Iwcalse of their tactics and against our Government, should not be permitted to go unnoticed. The committee would like to know to what extent those efforts have been productive of results in your field, if you know.
Mr. MERLIN. Well I think I have indicated that before, and that is inasmuch as I do know that with the revelation made before this committee on testimony, direct testimony, that there was a radio cell in the Radio Writers' Guild in which certain people were named, that those people did not testify, were unfriendly witnesses, there is no question that this (lid affect people. I know, because I have had our nniembers call me who were appalled, who were shocked and terribly concerned. I think it was a good indication of the membership it,self. There is no question tremendous good has been done. Radio writers are no(different front anybody else. When you do have a leadership which seems to be doing a good job and is effective, you don't question it. They were doing a fo ob, so there was no question of the aflfition of t iose people, and until that became public knowledge it was not an issue, and after that again we see the composition of the council such as now there is a great change. And as I also know, there has been talk and actual anti-Communist activity which was never had in the western region. I couldn't tell you about the East.
Mr. TAVENNFji. You recognize that you are a part of a very sensitive field.
Mr. MiaLItN. I certainly do.
Mr. TAvENN:R. And therefore the responsibility upon the leaders in that field is correspondingly greater.
Mr. MULIN. I certainly do sir. M r. DOYLe. Are we to conclude from your answer to Mr. Tavenner just before this answer that the feeling of the membership was or is that the leaders are doing a good job for you on contracts, that the fact that they may be Communist is immaterial I
Mr. M.ELIwN. Well, I wouldn't put it that way. It didn't Xcur to them.
Mr. Doym. Is that too strong, I mean the way I put itI
Mr. MERINi. Well, I don't think it is a fair question, because there was no such view at the time. Today I would say-I will put it this way: If officers were negotiating for a contract and it was established that one of the negotiators was a member of the Communist Party, I imagine there would be tremendous activity within the guild to do something about it. I say today
Mr. DoYLE. Of course, the ob active of my question was, I think clearly evident. In other words, I would -hope that no group oi patriotic Americans would put their success ahead of their country's interests.
Mr. Mmux. That is true.
Mr. DonL. I don't mean to insult you or your group by putting it that way, but I am asking you that so it can be clear m my mind, 3554 boMUsT ACrVITIES m TH 'LOS ANGELES ARA because I wouldn't want to think, sir, the Radio Writers' Guild were puttin their own interest in their contracts ahead ofMr. MrVmau. Oh, no.
Mr. DoyLE. Knowing that they had known Communists as the leaders.
Mr. MnLN. Well, you must have misunderstood some statement here.
Mr. Dom. I am glad I misunderstood.
Mr. MFmnuN. Because what I meant by that was what I said, there was no question of the membership of the allegiance of its leadership, because it seemed to be doing a good job of representing them effectively. If the issue had occurredtbefore, if it had been publicly known that important members of the leadership were Communists, I am sure there would have been activity within the guild long before this.
Mr. Donz. You mean activity to put them out of the guild?
Mr. MmELIN. That is what happened, for instance, in the Screen Writers' Guild and other unions where there is an anti-Communist group.
Mr. Dora I see. I am glad you explained that.
Mr. MErLIN. It came late because the issues which split the guild came late. It will put it that way, because I don't want you to misunderstand. I think the loyalty of the members of the Radio Writers' Guild is the same as any other group of people.
Mr. Doym. I am with you on that, and that is why I wanted you to clarify it.
Mr. Mnuw. And the only responsibility I could charge in that would be to persons such as myself, who have a major responsibility by being an officer of the guild, and in leadership, of not only being officers but of thinking correctly, as I think we are, and the only explanation I can make is that I could not detect to my own satisfaction how my policy was detrimental to the country or to the guild, being aware of it.
Mr. Doria Apparently then what I say and what Mr. Tavenner said and what your testimony showed today is that this Radio Writers' Guild occupies such a sensitive position in our national security that you have got to keep your eyes open all the time on your leadership, don't you V
Mr. MEEtIN. Well, that is true, but, in other words, too-Mr. DosL. And since we have the question of allegiance you have to be aware of the possibility of their divided allegiance, being extremely careful.
Mr. MERLiN. Being extremely careful. This is a problem of the members is not only a problem of certain men but one for the general membership of the guild which is aware of this problem, what it knows about it. s I say, it is late because the necessity for it came late. It took some time to start it, didn't have what happened in the Screen Writers' Guild at all.
Mr. DoYz. Apparently the necessity existed, but certain responsible men were not aware of it.
Mr. MnrnI. No. -With legal problems in conferences in there we wouldn't have anything to argue about, in general, as to the integrity of your leadership and membership, up until recent years. Then another problem came in, and for some time even that problem could be described as a problem which everybody else had, because COMMUNIST AcTvMTIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3555 the conversion of the radio business in television had created contention in all guilds, there had been peace between the actors and every. body else. You couldn't say because a group imposed a certain policy it was communistic. I have heard people term this other union as Communist. This writers' group have been violently against this since they have talked about it with the charge this was a Communist conspiracy. I don't know.
Mr. DOYLE. At any rate, you shouldn't let your group be caught again off balance.
Mr. MmuN. There is no question about it, and I am certain we will never be caught again. And to my mind the Radio Writers' Guild has been tremendously weakened of late because we have a loss of income, people going over to television, and also the fact that a rival union was set up outside of the Authors' League. So it has its own internal problems, and I am sure it will never be taken in again by anybody that they can identify as such.
Mr. DoysE You say that you at no time have been affiliated in any way with the Communist PartyI
Mr. MERix. Not to my knowledge in any manner at all. IncidentallyMr. Doym. Why did you limit your answer?
Mr. MmnuN. Let me say thisMr. DOYLE. Wait just a minute. Why did you limit your answer by saying "within my knowledge" I
Mr. M-ilu. Well that is, I guess, a rhetorical expression. What I mean is you asked before, you mentioned before about so-called closed meetings, about having sat at a progressive fraction meeting or thingslike that. To my knowledge I would say that I can't identify such. If that is called affiliation, then I certainly was not. I am sorry. It was a rhetorical tag which I put to myself often for this difficulty, that being a member of the committee, when you read the paper you found out there were some of them were called before the committee and refused to testify. Incidentally, I wonder if I may add this, just for the record: It has been brought to my attention that you have on one of these lists an agency in the name of Milton Meltzer. I read articles in the People's World, one where he talked against the movie Gone with the Wind, and I think they discouraged him. I want to state I am not now or never will be with Milton Meltzer. He was not out at Paramount and has not been there since months before the book was published. I tried to get Paramount to make it, so just as soon as Selznick made it I had no reason to deny it, but since that has been brought up I wondered whether that might come to your attention in some manner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. Doz. I have no questions.
Mr. MnLIx. I want also to say this, to give you my personal reasons for coming. When this attack and counterattack happened, I didn't know where to go. I asked who I could talk to, and I called Mr. Wheeler. Mr. Wheeler came over within a week or so, and I want to say I appreciate the courtesy with which he treated me, and as a matter of fact, he indicated at the time that you were not looking for me to question. That is something I want in the record here.
Mr. DoYLE. You feel that the function of the committee in your case is helpful. 3556 COMMUN-IST ACVITIS M TM LOS ANGELS AREA 
Mr. MERLtN. Yea, sir. I asked the committee to at least put me on to testify regarding that, on the desire of affiliation and to [)ring nat. tes to your attention as I have found them in mny knowledge and my experience that may be of help to your investlat ion.
Mr. TAVNNNFI. Think the record, Mr. Chairman, should also show that this committee cannot be engaged in the work of constituting a forum for people who have been criticized to come before it. However, in this instance there has been a great deal of testimony before this committee relating to the Radio Writers' Guild, in which this witness held a very important position, and therefore it would be in keeping with the committee's procedure to grant his requet to come before the committee. Now, off the record. (Discussion off the record.)
Mr. IDeyur. For the record, we will relat Mr. 'ravonuer's statement by saying, of course, we would have to take the committee too many places in the Nation, and we just have the physical inability to make ourselves available all over the Nation. Air. MERLIN. I realize that.
Mr. Dovi.z. I want to invite you, sir, in your very sensitive Imsition, in your own distinguished self fn your own'professioiial capacity, with. out inferring that you have heen-may I put it this way, without inferring that you hae been knowingly'lax, I want to lI'vite you to be vigorous, with your eyes open, and active to protect this country against these underground termites that are trying to dmtrov our Nation by force anti violence. The country needs men like you on the job with'their eyes open.
Mr. MlRUaN. "Alsoif T may say this for the record, I think that men msch as men who have been in as close association with those people as I are better equipped to retognive them in the future. I htve no regrets. I tried as honestly ts I could to acknowledge lUV association with so-called front organizntions, and I have no regrets, tor these two reasons, at the time I belonged to those I realized I didn't like what they did, and I feel personally that I can detect things that T could not detect a year or two ago. That is not caused altogether by the fact that the'country has changed, but it is because my experience has taught me if you don't do something about it, then I think you just lose the point. Incidentally, before coming in here, through no invitation of mine, there was a corps of photographers outside and they wanted a statement. I simply said that I Came in here to deny my affiliation and be of any Assistance I could. I hope there is no olijection to that.
Mr. TAVE.NNIR. No objection. 
Mr. JAcMsON. Thank you very much. (Whereupon, at 4 p. m., Monday, November 28, 1953, the hearing was elosed.) IN )EX I NDIVIDUAI ------3518 A land, R uth ................................................. 3511-35,'l)3 (te Nlluony), 3545 AlinmI, W illiam I --------------------------A llen, F red ---------------------------------------------------------- ,510 Ameche, Don ------------------------------------- ----............ M.4 8534 Arnold, Fdward ..--------------------------------------------------Ilenof?, Max N --------------------------------------- 8501-,k0T (teaetmony) lloyer, Charles ------------------------------------------------------- 8534 llrown, John ............................----------- 3508-3510 testimonyy) 8I Bryant, M Lea Les ----------------------------------------------------- M'17 )Bryant, rs. --------------------------------------------------------(larko, Angela ------------------------------------------------------- 8527 8534 Column , onnid ------------------------------------------------ -----Colman. M ra. lonald ------------------------------------------------- 3.,34 -------852l, 3545, 551 k-Davihlmon. MicalAla {ike) --------------------])awe, Iobert hayn ------------------------------------------------ 110 )lanmond, M uni ------------------------------------------------------ 3523 532 D)mytryk, Edward ------------------------------------------------l iedl .Jerry ------------------------------------------------------- 8 2 ' 9 Finn, Aubroy ----------------------------------------------------512 ueell ------------------------------------------------------------8513 (loldmsteln, fLeonard ----------------------------------------------M18 lanmner, Ah'h ---------------------------.----------................ Il nrdia, Jolm W esley ------------------------------------------------- Q513 larrison. Milton $teppard (ale also Milton Merlin) -------------------- 3,3 W%517 Hay. Anita --------------------------------------------------------323, 3545. 3540. 852 .lopkins, 'nullne .................... V13 -------------------------------------------------------Jnrrlvo. Pautl Kraft, fy ------------------------------------- ------------------3600. 3 23 LawMon, Jobn Howard ---------------------------------------------- M23 lineman. Mitchell -------------------------------------------------- 8526 3-534 JLhltsch, Ernst -------------8 23 M ax, Ed ---------------------------------------------------------- 5.05 Melfrer, Milton ----------------------------------------------------(teutlmnny) Merlin, Milton (see also Milton SheppMrd lairrison)-- 352. ,NUMM-3,541 523, 3527. 353K8, 544. 1134-3 Moore, Sim ------------------------------------A34 Morrim, Cheater ----------------------------------------------------:512 Morse, Carleton ----------------------------------------------------3 503q-5 Mnq. Jack -----------------------------------------------------W4 Mowhray. Alan ----------------------------------------------------Mullen. Virina --------------------- 8-16, 3517, 822-524, 357. 8528, .5 &N17 Myraon. Auth -----------------------------------------------------8517,8618 Perlin. Paul ----------------------------------------------------35,4 lip, Harry -------------------------------------------------------8 23 Raymond, Judith --------------------------------------------------35, 38.W ) lvhIR -. .--------------------------------------Itlerla, Si 81. I..N 3. hloblnaon, ack ------------------------------------------------------- 523 8545 l1olihmon, Mary ----------------------------------------S5 Selnick ------------------------------------------------------------9514, 3515 Shafron, Eva -----------------------------------------------------W23. 3527. 3545 hlp, Reuben --------------------------------------------5'14 8lImmm, liny -----------------------------------------------------3503W-5 Soloman, o1 --------------------------------------------------.%%7 3558 Mwx Page 8523 Btapp, John .............................. 8509 Stevenson, Houseley, Jr -----------------------------------------Stone, Gene ----------------------------------------------------- 8528, 8545 Thomas, Norman ------------------------------------------------------ 3543 308-3510 Tietz, J. B ------------------------------------------------------350 TorgaiL--------------------------------------------------------3545 Vinson, Owen ---------------------------.-------------------------3523 Waxman, Stanley --------------------------------------------------3512, 3541 Welles, Orson -. . . . ..---------------------------------------3523 Whitney, Lynn ----------------------------------------------------8.542 Wolff, Ann ----------------------------.--------------------------3526 Wolff, Bill-------------------------------.-----------------------Zuckerman ----------------------------------------------------------3533 ORGANIZATION 8 512, 3515 Air Corps ----------------------------------------------------8506 Amtorg Trading Corp -----------------------------------------------543 Arts, Sciences and Professions Council of Hollywood ---------------3535, 8546, 3547, 8555 Authors' League of America --------------------------Columbia (Pictures) -------.- ......................---------------- 3534 ..--------- 3513, 8 3515, 3517, 8519, 3520 Columbia Broadcasting System .... 3541 Council of Arts and Sciences ----------------------------------------3528 Council of Arts, Sciences and Professions ------ ---------------------- 3538 Experimental Radical Theater ----------------------------853 Federal Bureau of Investigation ----------------------------------8540 Hollywood Anti-Nazi League --------------------------------------3 540, .3541 Hollywood Writers' Mobilization --------------------------------3538-.540 John Reed Club ------------------------------------------------8541 League of American Writers ----------------------------------------3515 Los Angeles Labor School --------------------------------------------......... .------------------------------------ 3511 Mercury Theater 3534 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer -----. . ..-------------------------------------534 Monogram -----------.-.-----.................----------------------- 8544 National Labor Conference for Peace -----------------------------. ..---------------------------_ 3512 Office of War Information -------3534, 3538, 8555 Paramount (Films) ------------ ----------------------8517 Phychoanalyticel Society --.........-------------------------------8512, 3534 ----------------------RKO-------------------------536 Radio Artists' Guild --.............----------------------------------Radio Writers Guild ------------ 3527, 3535-3587, 3544, 3546-3549, 3551-8556 -3547 Radio Writers' Guild Councl_ ------------------------------------3538 Santa Monica Bay Musical Association -----------------------------8505, 8527, 8530, 8546-3549, 8554 Screen Writers' Guild ----------....... 3543 Socialist Party ---------------------------------------------------3541 Signal Corps-----------------------------------------------3547 TV Alliance ----------------------------------------------------3513, 8522 8Universal Studios -----------------------------------------8533 University of California at Berkeley ---------------------------------University of California at Los Angeles -------------------- 353, 3541, 3544 ...............------------------536, 3546 We the Undersigned ----------8541 Writers' Congress -----------------------------------------------PULICATIoS Daily Topics ---------------------------.-------------------------Los Angeles Times -----------------------------------------------People's World --------------------------..--------------------------Santa Monica Outlook -------------------- ----------------------- 0 3 534 81 3555 353 