Mr. VELDE. Will the television cameras desist for just a moment, please.
Mr. EASTMAN. I will also like to request that the photographers not take my picture during my testimony.
Mr. VELDE. That request will be granted. I want to ask the witness what he referred to by not being televised. Do you have any objection to the television equipment being in the room?
Mr. EASTMAN. I object to my voice and picture being transmitted over the air. I have no objection to the apparatus being in the room. I do object to the act of television.
Mr. VELDE. But you do have objection to the sound being transmitted through the microphone, the sound of your voice over television?
Mr. EASTMAN. May I talk to counsel for a moment, please ?
Mr. VELDE. Yes. (At this point, 4:10 p. m., Mr. Eastman conferred with Mr. Morris B. Cohn.)
Mr. EASTMAN. I do object to my voice and to my picture going over the air.
Mr. VELDE. Does that also include the radio, Mr. Witness?
Mr. EASTMAN. Yes. 
Mr. VELDE. You have objection to the radio, too?
Mr. EAST IN. Yes. 
Mr. VELDE. As I understand it, also to being photographed while you are giving your testimony ?
Mr. EASTMAN. During testimony; I have no objection to being photographed before or afterward. May I make this clear: This will result in my testimony being postponed. I would prefer to go on today, giving my testimony today.
Mr. VELDE. That is just about what the chairman was going to do, postpone it until Wednesday morning. However, may I ask this question: Have you any objection to testifying without the television cameras being turned on you or any part of your body at any time during the procedure of the hearing? 
Mr. EASTMAN. I don't want to be televised. 
Mr. VELDE. To the still photographers, will you take your pictures now, before the witness begins to testify ? The same is true with respect to the movie cameras, please. 320 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask this question of the witness then: As I understand it, you waive your objections to everything excepting the matter of the television cameras being directed on you, and you object to that, in your testimony?
Mr. EASTMAN. That is correct.
Mr. MOULDER. You have no objection to television pictures being made of everything else in the room, have you?
Mr. EASTMAN. That is right.
Mr. CLARDY. You don't object to the committee being televised then, I take it.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name, please, sir?
Mr. EASTMAN. My name is Philip Dey Eastman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell it, please.
Mr. EASTMAN. P-h-i-l-i-p D-e-y E-a-s-t-m-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. SCHERER. I can't hear.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little, please, Mr. Eastman ? Are you represented by counsel, Mr. Eastman ?
Mr. EASTMAN. I am. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will COunsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. CoHN. My name is Morris E. Cohn.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of Los Angeles?
Mr. COHN. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Eastman ?
Mr. EASTMAN. I was born in Massachusetts in 1909.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside ?
Mr. EASTMAN. I reside in Los Angeles, city of Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles?
Mr. EASTMAN. Approximately 15 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your educational training has been?
Mr. EASTMAN. After graduating from college I attended art school in New York City for 3 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What art school?
Mr. EASTMAN. It was the National Academy of Design. Since that time I have educated myself in the fields of art, music, and literature.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation ?
Mr. EASTMAN. I am an artist and writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your employment has been since the completion of your art course in New York?
Mr. EASTMAN. May I confer for a moment with my lawyer? (At this point, 4: 15 p. m., Mr. Eastman conferred with Mr. Cohn.)
Mr. EASTMAN. Since 1936 and up to about a year ago I have been more or less steadily employed, except for occasional layoffs, in the field of animated motion pictures, that is, animated cartoons. This was interrupted for about 21/2 years by my service in the Army. And at present I am a free-lance writer and artist. I do not work for any particularMr. TAVENNER. Will you speak a little louder, please.
Mr. EASTMAN. I am trying to, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. For whom?
Mr. COHN. Pardon me just one moment, please. LU±vIVIUIo± 11 vxx...o. IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 321 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (At this point, 4:17 p. m., Mr. Cohn conferred with Mr. Eastman.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Eastman, where have you been employed as an animated cartoonist, if that is the correct description of your work?
Mr. EASTMAN. Well, there are many different kinds of jobs in the animated-cartoon field. You mean as a writer and artist?
Mr. TAVENNER. In whatever capacity you were employed.
Mr. EASTMAN. I worked for about 5 years-I think the first 5 years of my work was at the Walt Disney Studios.
Mr. TAVENNER. That would be over what period of time?
Mr. EASTMAN. Roughly from 1936 to 1941. I am not exactly sure of the date because I wasMr. TAVENNER. A period of 5 years, did you say? 
Mr. EASTMAN. Approximately. Now, this was quite a while ago and I can't remember the details too accurately.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you engage in that work for any other company other than the Disney Co.?
Mr. EASTMAN. Yes, sir. Let's see if I can remember the continuity of my employment. After leaving the Disney Studio, and a brief period of unemployment, I worked for what was then the Leon chlesinger Studios. He doesn't have that name any longer. I believe it is called Warner Bros. Cartoons now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time did you work for Leon Schlesinger?
Mr. EASTMAN. I believe that was-well, it would be from some time in the latter part of 1941 to the time that I went into the Army, and that was-I can't remember exactly. I think it was in 1942 or 1943-1942, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. 1942?
Mr. EASTMAN. I am not sure. I will have to look at my induction card.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were employed by the Disney Co. and also by Leon Schlesinger, did you do work which was generally termed the work of a sketch artist?
Mr. EASTMAN. During part of the time that I was at the Disney Studio I worked as a sketch artist.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the difference between a sketch artist and story-board sketch artist, or is there any difference ?
Mr. EASTMAN. It is about the same. I would say it was almost identical.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Bernyce Polifka Fleury testified in executive session before this committee, Mr. Eastman, September 10, 1951. She admitted that she had been a member of the Communist Party. I want to read to you a part of her testimony regarding an incident, as a basis for asking you several questions.
Mrs. Fleury was asked the question of what they discussed in these Communist Party meetings. Her reply was this: We talked mainly about how we could improve the animation business. And also how the artists could contribute more to the-I guess you would call it-and I am guessing on this-social welfare or social something or other of the people. As an example, Ed Biberman had very decided ideas about art. I have decided ideas about art We did not agree at any time. OZZ COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Do you recall attending a meeting at which there was a substantial disagreement between Ed Biberman and Mrs. Fleury on the subject of art?
Mr. EASTMAN. I am not going to answer your question, and I am going to give you the reasons. They are contained in portion of the Constitution that is dedicated to the protection of the rights of individuals. My first reason for not answering your question is that your question invades the rights under that portion of the Constitution which guarantees me freedom of speech and the freedom to associate with whom 1 please, and also the freedom of conscience. The second reason why I decline to answer is that I consider that you are bringing me here under subpena to an unreasonable search and attempt to seize the contents of my mind. I also have an objection to make on the fact that, in a sense, the atmosphere here is one of a trial, and that you have accepted the testimony of witnesses without permitting me to bring witnesses of my own.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Witness, the committee is not interested in your opinions of the membership or of the committee, as a whole. We are asking you a question, purely and simply to obtain facts and information. The Chair would appreciate it, and the committee would appreciate it very much, if you would answer or decline to answer for legal means, and state your legal grounds.
Mr. EASTMAN. I am trying to state my legal reasons, and I believe all the reasons I am stating are valid and legal reasons. attorney myself. I am not an 
Mr. VELDE. How much longer do you intend to proceed with your legal reasons ?
Mr. EASTMAN. It won't take very long, maybe 3 minutes.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed. We will give you just 3 minutes.
Mr. EASTMAN. I also object-this is my fourth ground-on the ground that I feel this committee has imposed cruel and unusual punishments upon me in keeping me under subpena for the better part of a year. My last and final ground for declining to answer is because 161 years ago a woman named Mary Bradbury in Southboro, Mass.Mary Bradbury happens to be my great, great, great, great, great, great grandmother, and she was convicted of consorting with the devil, despite the fact that 117 of her neighbors testified that she was a good and pious woman. Because I believe she would not have been convicted of witchcraft had she had the privilege of the fifth amendment available to her, to the privilege against self-incrimination, I not only do stand on my privilege, but I am proud to stand on it. AIr. VELDE. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Continuing with the testimony of Mrs. Fleury, we find that she was asked this question by Mr. Wheeler: What were Mr. Biberman's ideas about art? To which Mrs. Fleury replied: Well, this is, strangely enough, belief e it or not, our disagreements on our talk was not concerned with pohtical issues as much as it was with the form of what COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 323 the art would take In other words, in painting a picture, as far as I am concerned, it does not make it a better picture because it is a poor little baby than if it is a big painting of an aristocratic woman. In other words, it is the form that is the important thing to my way of thinking, as far as painting is concerned. That was the biggest disagreement, one of the big disagreements that Ed Biberman and I had. In other words, he felt that painting was a documentary thing and I felt it was not a documentary thing, that that was under the jurisdiction of photographer, where it would be true documentary.
Mr. JACKSON. Was his feeling that a painting should carry a social message rather than simply the abstract conception of the art?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, and I felt it was more important in the design in the abstract aspect of art. iMrs. Fleury testified as to that disagreement that existed on the subject of art with Ed Biberman, and which led eventually to her getting out of the Communist Party, and Mrs. Fleury also testified as follows-Mr VELDE. Mr. Tavenner, before proceeding, the committee is about to recess until tomorrow. Do you have further questions to ask this witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Just two or three further questions to ask this witness.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mlfl. Fleury then identified you as a member of this same group of the Communist Party, of which she was a member. In the course of describing you, she said: He is what was called a sketch artist, storyboard sketch artist.
Mr JACKsON. Employed where, do you recall?
Mrs. FLEURY. He was, whether at that time he was at Disney or whether he was at Leon Schlesinger, which is now Warner Bros. Cartoons, I don't recall. Now, was Mrs. Fleury truthful in her statement that you were a member of this group ? Did she identify you properly and truthfully as a member of the group of the Communist Party of which she was a member?
Mr. EASTMAN. Mr. Tavenner, you are asking me the same kind of a question, and I decline co answer your question on all the grounds which I have stated a few moments ago.
Mr. SCHERER. Does that include that the answer you might make might tend to incriminate you?
Mr. EASTMAN. I am not a lawyer, sir, but I think you know that I would not be required to give the reasons why I am standing on that portion of the fifth amendment.
Mr. SCHERER. Are you standing on the fifth amendment?
Mr. EASTAN. I think I made it very clear I was not only standing on the fifth amendment, but four other amendments to our Constitution.
Mr. SCHERER. The fifth amendment, namely, that your answer would tend to incriminate you.
Mr. MoULDER. I understand the witness declines to answer for the same reasons stated awhile ago.
Mr. EATSnrAX. I think you understand me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party'
Mr. EASTMAN. You are asking me the same kind of a question, aid I decline to answer on all of the previously stated grounds.
Mr. T \VENNER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party? j CUOIMUINIbl AUCI'IV'Iitb IN Tl1h. -- .....----- ------ 
Mr. EASTMAN. Mr. Tavenner, this is the same kind of a question, and I am not going to answer it. I will state my grounds over again, unless agreeable that I say that I stand on all of the grounds on which I previously stood.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Do any of the members of the committee have any further questions ?
Mr. JACKSON. I have one observation, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. With respect to the case of Mary Bradbury, to which the witness referred, the only difference between her situation and the situation of the witness today is that there were no witches in Salem. There have been a number of Communists identified in Los Angeles.
Mr. VELDE. That is a very good observation, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Counsel, is there any reason why this witness should not be excused?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir; there is not.
Mr. VELDE. If not, the witness may be excused.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I ask the unanimous consent of the committee to insert in the record of the hearings at this point the action taken by the board of trustees of the Los Angeles Bar Association at its meeting on February 17, 1953. I might add that the action taken by the bar association grew out of the activities of some of the witnesses who appeared before the committee in hearings here last September.
Mr. VELDE. And the counsel?
Mr. JACKSON. The witnesses and their counsel, and in several instances, at least, the witnesses themselves were members of the legal profession.
Mr. VELDE. Would you care to read it in the record?
Mr. JACKSON. The substance of the report is that it represents some changes in section 6068 of the Business and Professional Code, and the principal change is to point out that it is the duty of an attorney "() to support the Constitution and laws of the United States and of this State," and (b), "to maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial officers, and to refrain from disrespectful; offensive, or disorderly conduct during the course of hearings before lawfully constituted legislative, executive, and administrative bodies, boards, committees, or officers." (The aforementioned document is in words and figures as follows:) The Board of Trustees of the Los Angeles Bar Association at its meeting on February 17, 1953, considered the report of the committee headed by Mr. Frank B. Belcher recommending a revision of section 6068 of the Business and Professions Code. That committee proposed that the section be amended to read as follows (principal changes are italicized): "6068. Duties of an attorney. "The following are the duties of an attorney: "Subyaragraphs (a), (b), and (c) shall be duties of an attorney whether in the course of his relation as an attorney or otherwise: "(a) To support the Constitution and law of the United States and of this State. "(b) To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial officers, legislative bodies and their committees, administrativebodies and administrative and executive officers of the United States, any of the several States or Territories or any political subdivision thereof. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 325 "(c) Never to seek to mislead by an artifice or false statement of fact or law a court of justice or judicial officer, legislative body or its committee, an administrative body, or an administratileor executive officer of the United States, or of any of the several ,tates or Territories,or any political subdivision thereof. "(d) To employ for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to him such means only as are consistent with the truth. "(e) To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings or defenses only as appear to him legal or just, except the defense of a person charged with a public offense. "(f) To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at esery peril to himself to preserve the secrets, of his client. "(g) To abstain from all offensive personality, and to advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless required by the justice of the cause with which he is charged. "(h) Not to encourage either the commencement or the continuance of an action or proceeding from any corrupt motive of passion or interest. "(i) Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed." The report specificall. referred to the problems raised by the conduct of certain lawyers in the cases of People v. Foster, United States v. Bridges et al., and at the hearings at Los Angeles called by the Committee on Un-American Activities of the House of Representatives. The board was not unmindful of these problems and endorsed generally the views expressed in the committee's report. Nevertheless, the board believed that the proposed amendments to section 6068 are too sweeping, and might tend unduly to limit the right of free speech to which lawyers are entitled along with other citizens. The basic evil to be corrected is the offensive and sometimes disorderly behavior of a very small number of attorneys in the course of certain trials and certain public hearings before legislative or administrative bodies. So far as court trials are concerned, it is agreed that the existing injunction "to maintain the respect due the courts of justice and judicial officers" sufficiently covers the situation. Courts and judicial officers are entitled to respect from all members of the bai The respect due them is not limited to the time that they are conducting hearings, nor is the corresponding duty of the attorney limited to his behavior during court appearances. In the view of the board, there was some risk that the proposed legislation would cast doubt upon the right of an attorney, in common with any other citizen, to speak or write his opinions freely of the legislative, the executive, and numerous administrative officers, boards, and committees. The board also was of the view that the language of the section should as far as possible he left in broad general terms, rather than specifically to refer to the different jurisdictions in reference to various legislative bodies, etc. The board accordingly approved the report of the committee but recommended that in lieu of the text suggested by the committee, the section be amended to read as follows "6068. Duties of an attorney. "It is the dut of an attorney "(a) To support the Constitution and laws of the United States and of this State. "(b) To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial officers. and to ifraint from disrespectful, offenisre or disorderly conduct during the ll constituted cryislatte, executive and adcourse or i catngs before lairfu ,niinisftttitle bodies, boards, committees oi officers. "(c) Neier to seek to mislead by an artifice or false statement of fact or law , lat t , e.r<c tttl ', or ad miniistLatti a court of justice or judicial officers, or a lJcIl body, board, conn,,,fttt , ro officer. "(d) To employ for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to him such means only as are consistent with the truth "(e) To counsel or maintain such atiin, proceedings or defenses only as appear to him legal or just, except the defense of a person charged with a public offense "(f) To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to himself pre serve the secrets, of his client. "(g) To abstain from all offensive personality, and to advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless required to by the justice of the cause with which he is charged 31747-53-pt. l-- 326 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA "(h) Not to encourage either the commencement or the continuance of an action or proceedings from any corrupt motive of passion or interest. "(i) Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed."
Mr. VELDE. The committee will stand adjourned until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. (Whereupon, at 4: 30 p. m., the hearing was recessed until 10 a. m., Tuesday, March 24, 1953.) INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA-Part 1 TUESDAY. MARCH 24, 1953 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to adjournment, at 10: 10 a. m., in room 518, Federal Building, Hon. Harold H. Velde (chairman), presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Harold H. Velde (chairman), Donald L. Jackson, Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scherer, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, and James B. Frazier, Jr. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Louis J. Russell, chief investigator; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., chief clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; and William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order.
Mr. MARSHALL. I request permission to address tle comnuittee.
Mr. VELDE. The permission will be refused. At the proper time you will be allowed to. Let the record show present are Mr. Jackson, Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Walter, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Frazier, and the chairman, Mr. Velde, a quorum and the full committee.
Mr. Counsel, do you have a witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Mr. Julian Gordon.
Mr. VELDE. In the testimony you are to give before this committee, do you solemnly swear you will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. GORDON. I do. TESTIMONY OF JULIAN GORDON 