Mr. HuoGINs. Roy Huggins.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Huggins? 
Mr. HUGGINS. Lytle, Wash., in 1914.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. HUGGINs. Malibu Beach.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, in a general way what your educational training has been?
Mr. HUGGINS. I went to UCLA, and graduated in 1939, and did 2 years of graduate work.
Mr. TAVENNER. Could you speak a little louder ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I did 2 years of graduate work from 1939 through 1941 and that is all at UCLA, the graduate work.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what field did you do your graduate work
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, my major in college was political philosophy, but my graduate work was done in public administration.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you tell the committee briefly how you have been employed since the termination of your graduate work? iMr. WOOD. Will you pardon me for a moment ? I neglected to ask the witness, do you have counsel representing you?
Mr. HUGGIN. No; I don't.
Mr. WooD. If you desire to have counsel at any time, during the progress of your interrogation, please let me know.
Mr. HUGGINS. All right. I have forgotten the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked you to tell us the field in which you spe- cialized while in college.
Mr. HUGGINS. Political philosophy.
Mr. TAVENNER, You answered that question, I believe.
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And then my question was: How have you been employed since completion of your educational training?
Mr. HUGGINS. I was employed by the city of Los Angeles as a personnel technician, and IMr. TAVENNER. Would you give the approximate dates, please ? 
Mr. HUGGINS. I think it was in 1941, just after I left UCLA. I became a special representative of the United States Civil Service Commission from 1941 to 1943, I believe it was, or 1944. I was an industrial engineer in 1944, I think it was, until the end of the war. At the end of the war, I started writing, and I have been a writer ever since.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated since the period of the war you have been engaged in work as a writer. In what general field have you been a writer?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I wrote about 100,000 words of fiction for the Saturday Evening Post, and I have written three novels, and several screen plays. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4265 
Mr. TAVENNER. What are the screen plays which you have been given credit for?
Mr. HUGOINs. Too Late for Tears, The Lady Gambles, Woman in Hiding, Sealed Cargo, story credit on the Fuller Brush Man, and the Good Humor Man, and there were others but I can't remember now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Huggins, this committee has been engaged for some time in the investigation of Communist Party activities in the field of entertainment, especially in that field which relates to the moving-picture industry. The committee has information that your connection in the past has been such that you could enlighten the committee on some of the Communist Party activities in that field. So, I wanted to ask you, first of all: Are you now a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HUGOINS. No; I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; I have been.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee, first the circum- stances under which you became a member ?
Mr. HUGGINs. In detail, Mr. Tavenner? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I think that it should be in detail, at least in detail enough to give the committee a clear picture of what transpires when persons in your position are induced or led to become members of the Communist Party.
Mr. HUGGINS. I became a member of my own volition; but, if I can state it in detail, I think that the story should go back several years before I became a member of the Communist Party. I was, I suppose, a typical American citizen when I started school. I came from a Republican background, and a very conservative background, and I was very indefinite myself to politics until I read in the papers about a group called the Nazis, who had taken power in Germany, and I guess I began to read it in 1934 and 1935. My first reaction was simply disbelief that any recognized state could be using as an instrument of national policy persecution of a minority group. Even though I was not myself a member of that minority group, I still thought it was appalling and unbelievable, and when I started college I made it a point to find out what it was about, a state that could lead it to that kind of despicable policy in which it exploits the very worst in human beings. I took political science, and I suppose that was one of the reasons I took political science, because it did strike me as being a terribly important problem, and I came to understand, I thought, the nature of the German state. It was fascism. I think I could have been classified as a premature anti-Fascist, and I can't understand how anyone could possibly have failed to be a premature anti-Fascist myself, after seeing what was happening in Germany. I went to UCLA in 1937 from a junior college, and changed my major to political philosophy. At that time my politics were middle of the road, and I just had a great faith and love for the democratic system, which struck me as being the opposite of fascism, and I did not know very much about communism. I took courses from a professor who was a Marxist, and I took several courses from him, and all of his courses, not only in political 4266 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY theory but in anything else, whatever courses he gave, were all given from the Marxist point of view. By that time I had made up my mind I was going to be a teacher, a college professor. So, I was a serious and hard-working student, and this professor took me under his wing, as it were, and made me his reader and gave me special attention. He was a very good teacher, and very sincere, and he was not a Communist that I know of, but he was a Marxist. This was in 1937 or 1938 or 1939, and. I think the whole world was pretty troubled, and Marxism has a wonderful thing about it, in that, being a closed system of thought, if you feel great despair about the world or are having difficulty understanding it, Marxism does something for you. It suddenly allows the whole universe to fall into a nice simple pattern. There are no unanswered questions once you become a Marxist. It is a nice feeling, particularly if your field is political philosophy, and you like to feel that you do know all of the answers. I became a Marxist, I guess, sometime in 1938 or 1939, and I was a very hard-working Marxist, and I did a lot of reading, not in Lenin and Stalin; I was not particularly interested in Lenin and Stalin, but I did a lot of reading in Marxist theories, and especially in his methodology, his approach to all phenomena, in which he had an answer for everything. About that time, at that time of course, I was also interested in politics, as everyone was in that day, and my politics, I guess, were just democratic, and I was in favor of Roosevelt's foreign policy of 'quarantining" the aggressors as he stated it in 1937, and I was often asked to speak at big student meetings. There is a yearly peace meeting in UCLA, and I was chairman one year, and the chief speaker another year. I did not know at the time, but I suspect now that the people who asked me to speak and the people who had organized and sort of taken over these things were members of the Communist Party. But I knew no Communists, and I was stating my beliefs which were pro-American and anti-Fascist and pro-Roosevelt. I graduated in 1939, and I applied for a fellowship and so I could go on and get my Ph. D. I received a card, mimeographed card, telling me my grades were not good enough for a fellowship, and that they were sorry. This was the awakening, because I had graduated a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and I have a diploma that says "summa cum laude" in a class of several thousand, and I didn't get it. So, I took my little mimeographed card up to the political-science department. and I found a graduate student up there whose name I have forgotten, but he and I knew each other, and we went down to Kirkhoff Hall and had a Coca-Cola, and he told me I should know better than to think I was going to get a fellowship when I was also a Communist. And I did not believe it, but I made a few other little inquiries from the professors who were not very clear on the subject, but I gathered from what they did not say that I was refused a fellow- ship because I was a Communist. Now, all through 1939 I had been getting little hints from people that I really ought to become a Communist. I don't know whether it was Miss Celeste Strack, who was a well-known Communist, who was talking to me at that time or not, but I know whoever it was, they kept saying, "Look, you are a Marxist, and therefore you should belong to the Communist Party." And I remember that one of my COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4267 answers was that Sidney Hook was a Marxist, and he did not belong to the Communist Party and, in fact, he wrote articles every week condemning it. Well, he was a different kind of Marxist. Well, at that time I had discovered the differences, and I read Sidney Hook right along with all of the other Marxists, and found them to be, as far as I could see in basic agreement about what Marxism was all about, and so I did not join the Communist Party and I knew no Communists, and I didn't associate with Communists, and my friends were all fraternity brothers, or fraternity boys, at least, who lived with me down at the beach. But I was a Communist to the faculty of UCLA, and I was refused a fellowship on those grounds. I was already fairly despairing of democracy at that time, but I did not do anything about it, but in 1940 history had moved also, and I think every democracy in any large industrial nation, except England and America, had now fallen to fascism, and I began to despair of the thing that I had felt so deeply about, the democratic system. I had been a victim of undemocratic treatment, and I was just naive enough to believe that it was impossible that this could not really have happened, but it did happen, and I knew it. So, when I got back to school in 1940, the campaign took up again, and, through Celeste Strack working on me to join the Communist Party, I joined the Communist Party sometime in 1940. I think that I attended three meetings. I can t remember the meetings very well, but I do remember that I was being asked to picket war plants and being asked to engage in other activities which were hindering our preparedness program and to do what I could to oppose draft laws, and so on and so forth. Well, I didn't like that. I found, having gotten into the Communist Party, that I did not agree with the Communist Party line. I was a Marxist, but apparently not a Communist; and so, after attending three or four meetings, I quit, and I wrote an article, which appeared on the front page of the daily college paper, condemning the Communist Party position in toto. War was declared later, and the Communist Party line changed, and I didn't pay any attention to it; but, with the declaration of war, I left college and I tried to join the Marine Corps. and I was rejected because of my bad eyesight. I think I tried the Navy, too-I am not sure-and I was rejected there. And so I got a job working for the city, transferred to the Federal Government, and became special representative in charge of recruitment for the national war agencies here. I was still a student of Marxism, and I hoped when it was over to go back and get my Ph. D. in political philosophy, and I was still a Marxist. So, around 1943, the political climate had changed rather severely, and Russia was our ally, and I wish I could remember those quotes verbatim, but I think I remember them well enough to state them here, without contradiction, that it was in 1943 or maybe 1942 that General MacArthur made his statement that the hope of the world rests upon the valiant Red army, and I think it was in 1943 that Eddie Rickenbacker, whose love of country is hardly questioned, said-and this was quoted in Time magazine in 1943: "When the war is over, Russia will emerge as one of the world's greatest democracies." Patrick Hurley, Gen. Patrick Hurley, in 1944, said in regard to China that the Communists are not Communist at all, but just a type 4268 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY of democrat, or fighting for a type of democracy, or something of that sort, and I think that was quoted in the New York Times. Drew Pearson rounded up all of these quotations just for fun one time to show that, when you thought something was rather important.There were others. There was one from Admiral Standley, to the effect that Russia was a great democracy. While I began to wonder perhaps if I had gotten into the Communist Party and gotten out without giving it a chance, it looked to me as if I were wrong about their attitude toward democracy and the rest of it, and so I rejoined the Communist Party in 1943. As far as I could see, there had not been any changes, except that they were now, at least-I could not oppose what they were doing and saying because they were selling war bonds, and they were talking about how lo prevent strikes in the factories, and they were a very patriotic group. I attended a couple or three meetings, and then stopped attending meetings, because I think that I felt, as a Marxist, I really ought to get into this thing and see what was happening, and it seemed to me being a Communist was a part of being a Marxist, and this I think was my motivation; but somehow or other, after doing it, I couldn't stay with it, and so I attended very few meetings. In fact, I suppose not more than five or six meetings in the next 2 or 3 years. I suppose I retained my membership accordingly. In 1946, I became a writer, and I became a member of the Authors' Guild, and I think it was the first time I ever joined anything besides the Communist Party. I became a member of the steering committee of the Authors' Guild here on the coast, and the chairman of that committee was Albert Maltz. After a meeting one night, after a meeting of the steering committee of the Authors' Guild, Albert Maltz asked me to have a drink with him in the bar of the hotel, and we talked for a while, and it came out that he understood that I was in some way still a member of the Communist Party, and not attending meetings or anything, and why didn't I. I gave him my reasons: that it didn't mean anything to me; that I saw no reason why I should. He asked me if I were a Marxist, and I said "Yes," and he asked me if I would allow him to transfer me to the Hollywood group. And I said "I didn't think so." We had meetings, I guess fairly regularly, of the Authors' Guild, and after each meeting Albert Maltz would ask me if I had changed my mind, and he gave a glowing picture of the stimulation and understanding and the new understanding I would have of Marxism if I came into this group, which was made up of highly intelligent people, and finally, sometime toward the end of 1946, I said: "All right; tell me where to go, and I will come to one of your meetings." Well, he said, "It will take a little time," and so I think it was a few weeks later I was told to attend a meeting of the Communist Party in Hollywood, which I did, and for the first time in my connection with t he Communist Party I started attending meetings fairly regularly. I think in the period of 9 months or so that I was a member of the Communist Party in Hollywood I must have attended a dozen or two dozen meetings. It was sufficient to know something about the Communist Party at last. I discovered the usual things: That there was certainly no democracy in the Communist Party; decisions were brought down and COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4269 rendered or we found out about them by having to read the [Communist] press, which I could not bear reading, and I was supposed to read the Daily Worker, and I think I took it for a while, but I do not read it, and I was also supposed to read Political Affairs, or something like that, which was on a little higher level, but still was opinionated and without much force, I felt. Discussions in the group seemed to be or to consist of restatement in slightly different wording of things that were appearing and the things I was being asked to read. Any difference of opinion was immediately pounced upon with name-calling and all of the rest of the things that you have heard about so many times before. But no one ever disagreed really. They might tentatively disagree, and then immediately withdraw it, very quickly withdraw when they got pounced upon by the chief intellectual of the group. At the same time history was moving forward, and I was making a big change in my basic philosophy. In 1947 a lot of things were happening; the cold war had started; the U. N. was a total loss because of Russian vetoes, and I think that by the time I got out of the Communist Party they had used the veto about two dozen times on crucial issues, and I had great faith in the U. N. It looked to me as if it were being destroyed. Russia was refusing to have anything to do with control of the atomic bomb, which appalled me, and then sometime late in 1947 they suddenly reformed the Communist Internationale, and I quit the Communist Party. This time I quit no longer a Marxist, for reasons both that I could have found in the first place if I had read with less of an eager eye, and for reasons of history. The historical reasons were now it became pretty obvious that the Soviet Union was not the hope of the world or the hope of democracy or anything else, but was an imperialist power. I used to believe in the early days, in 1943, when I went back in, that the only reason that the Soviet Union was not democratic was because it was surrounded by enemies like Germany and Japan, and so on, and it was on a wartime footing, and that was the reason for it. But it got worse as we all know after the war was over, and it had no enemies surrounding it at all. Its attacks on every kind of freedom of thought increased, its attitude toward other peoples became clear in its dealings with all of its border nations, Poland, Yugoslavia, and Hungary, and the six so-called satellite states, and it had moved in and destroyed all freedom and had shot several leaders of those nations. There were a good many things happening at that time, all of them seemed to be building up and I can't even remember them all, but it was obvious to me that there was no hope that the future was held in the hand of the Soviet Union. It is a terrible thing when you finally realize the great gap between the grim realities and your vision of an ideal future. It is hard to realize it, and it takes a little time. But I did finally realize it, and when I realized it on a historical level, I also realized it on a theoretical level, and I realized finally what the basic flaw in the Marxist philosophy was, and it is simply this. I think it might be important to get this on the record, and I think it is clear. Marx states, first Marx sets up a methodology which is fairly sound and he made a lot of predictions which came true. Then Marx gets into the way of the future, away beyond his time, with statements 4270 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY about the nature of the Communist state, and the foundation stone, the moral foundation of Marxism was the Maxist theory which I believe was scientifically founded, and I believe that Marxism was a science, and that Marxist theory called the withering away of the state, was founded on scientific principles, which Marxism I thought was. Well, it is obvious to anyone who wants to look that the state is not withering away, in the Soviet Union, that it is getting more tyrannical every day, and it seemed obvious to me then finally in 1947 that Marx- ist theory of the withering away of the state was just a mystical and metaphysical thing, and had no foundation whatever in scientific fact. It seemed, too, if you accepted all of his a priori conclusions about the economic determination of history and the reason why there were states, and Marx said the reason why there are states is because there are classes, and when there are no more classes there cannot be more states, because there is no need for a state, and all of this, if you accept it, then you go right on and say that it must be true, and the Soviet Union will some day be a great democracy. But it is obvious that it is not. It is obvious that Marx's statements are simply unfounded, and that it isn't true and it isn't proved that if you have no classes that you won't need a state, and, in fact, the contrary has been proved by the Soviet Union, where I don't believe they do have any classes, they have just one class, but they have a state in the Soviet Union, and that state is getting more and more powerful and more and more tyrannical every year. I can't see how it can possibly cease to be that. It must go on getting more and more tyrannical until finally it is lost in some way or other. So I left the Communist Party in 1947 finally, no longer a Marxist nor a Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you there a moment. Do you attribute your present disagreement with Marxist theory to your experience within the Communist Party ?
Mr. HUGGINS. No; it is partly that, because certainly the fear and the complete absence of any kind of integrity was made clear to me in the Communist Party. A man cannot think for himself in the Communist Party. He must abrogate that privilege, and do it willingly on some theoretical ground. They seldom state it so coldly as that; but actually that is what is behind it. They are in a constant state of crisis, and they recognize that in a crisis certain attitudes must be taken, and you don't have time to argue, and the way they get around the fact that it is always like that is that there is always a crisis. But it was not the experience in the Communist Party that convinced me or made me cease to be a Marxist. It was history, and I suppose it is just the fact that one day I woke up and decided to think about something else, you know. Once you get into a closed system of thought it takes more than fact to get you out of it, and it takes something else, and it takes a real jarring experience of some kind to get you out of it, and then once you are out of it a lot of things become obvious that should have been obvious in the first place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then from history and from your experience in the Communist Party you concluded that there were flaws in the Marxist theory, which finally resulted in your disillusionment on that subject?
Mr. HUGGINS. Right. I suppose there was a positive side to this thing. One is, in 1947 I realized that the Marxism was not a science, COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4271 but that it was actually based upon some a priori assumptions, which if you accept then you accept all of Marxism, and if you accept the theory that almost all social phenomena of our world stem from the existence of classes, if you accept that, and if you accept his theory that all phenomena, even thought, is determined by the economic structure of the society, if you accept that, then you go ahead, and you accept the rest of Marxism. I realize, like all closed systems of thought, once you find a hole in it, then you realize that it is all wrong, because that is the nature of a closed system of thought. You must either accept it all without question, or you do not accept any of it, and this is recognized by the Communists. There are no Communists who say, "Well, I am a Marxist, but I don't accept this particular theory of Marx," and if you don't accept that theory, you are not a Marxist, and you are not a Communist if you don't go along with every bit of the theory. So I think it is in the nature of the things that once you find one big flaw, then you suddenly realize that that is just a resultant flaw of other flaws. I think it has been proved that you don't need classes in order to have a tyrannical society, a society that is like a class society, as Marx would describe class society. The other thing on the positive side is this, that as I said when I started talking, my reason for first joining the Communist Party was a great despair for the democratic system. I began to think that the choice might be not democracy versus fascism, but maybe fascism versus communism. This is how it began to look to me. That is because, as I said, every nation except England and America had fallen to fascism, every industrial nation. I had myself been victimized and called a Communist when I was not one, which seemed to me without a hearing highly undemocratic, in an institution where you expect it to be very democratic, and that is a state university. So I was in a great state of despair for the democratic system in 1940, as a good many people were. I think in 1948 and 1949 and 1950 it is becoming ever more clear that democracy has a heck of a lot more vitality and strength than a lot of people thought in 1940, when so many nations had fallen to fascism. I am now of the firm belief that we have just witnessed the first act in the history of free democracy, and that it has a long way to go.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your views, then, with regard to your former de- spair for democracy have changed materially?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; because of what has been happening in the world.
Mr. TAVENNER. In speaking of the flaw of Marxism, what was the flaw which you discovered, and which changed your basic thinking on the subject?
Mr. HUGGINs. Well, the basic flaw was the theory that I would say is basic to Marxism of the withering away of the state. He stated that once the proletarian revolution has come about the state will begin to wither away, and you eventually get great free democracy in a pure kind of democracy. Well, here it was 1947, and I don't know how many years after the Communist revolution that was, but the state was going in the opposite 4272 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY way vet, and it had always been going that opposite way, toward a tighter and tighter dictatorship, and a greater and more medieval kind of tyranny, and it was still going that way and it still is today. That was the major flaw. It was obviously a flaw and obvious that Marxist theory was mystical and not founded upon scientific fact. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you observe during your experience in the Communist Party that the Communist Party program or line followed that of the Soviet state, or was dictated by the Soviet state?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; I think it is obvious. Every change of the party line has always come immediately after a change in foreign policy of the Soviet Union. When the Soviet Union decided, and, of course, this was before my time, but I know now from history, that when the Soviet Union decided to try to form an alliance against fascism that the Communist Party line immediately changed to one of supporting whatever government in whatever country they existed, whatever government was willing to go along as an ally of the Soviet Union. Then when the Soviet Union signed a pact with Nazi Germany, the nonaggression pact, the line immediately changed overnight. I was not a member then, either, but I can remember very well I was studying in summer school up at Berkeley, and I remember very well that some of the people that I had met up there were busy running around trying to pick up pamphlets that they had laid on doorsteps calling for a third term for President Roosevelt, and they were trying to get them back again. The line had changed as they put them on the doorsteps.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS it not correct to say in the line of what you have just stated that if a person were a devout member of the Communist Party he would sooner or later have to take a definite stand in behalf of the Soviet Union and against the United States?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I think that is obvious now. When I joined, in 1940, it seemed to me that that is what I was being asked to do, and that is why I quit, after such a very short membership, because I was unwilling to make that choice, or even to grant that that choice was necessary. My feeling about Marxism was that it was a great methodology, but as far as any revolutions went I thought they would come when my grandchildren were around, if they came at all, and I didn't look upon it as a thing that was going to happen tomorrow on Seventh and Broadway. I was interested in Marxism as a methodology, and when I went into the party and I was asked to make what I felt was to take a position that I felt was contrary to the best interest of this country I quit. Of course, it was-their position then was-"Let us not help anybody, and, in fact, let us help the Germans," and I had a vision of our being left alone to fight the Nazis. I think today that same thing exists, and in fact I would say that with the reestablishment of the Comintern in 1947, which is the part where I got out, I would say from that point on membership in the Communist Party automatically constituted a subversive position.
Mr. DOYLE. What year would that be?
Mr. HUGGINs. In 1947, that is the year they restablished the Comin- tern, and they called it the Cominform.
Mr. WooD. Membership in the Communist Party means enmity to the United States Government? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4273 
Mr. HUGGINS. I think that that is obvious. I don't think that there is any question that the Communist Party line is dictated by the needs of the Soviet Union, and history proves it all along the line. If that is true, then it seems to me that today you cannot be a loyal American and be a member of the Communist Party. It is impossible.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have heard a great deal said by the Communist Party about a so-called form of democracy within the party, that is in the way of procedure. They call it democratic procedure, and freedom of thought, notwithstanding these hearings have developed many, many instances where it has been demonstrated that thought control is a specialty of the Communist Party. What are your views on that subject from your experience in the party?
Mr. HuGGINS. Well, they claim that there is in the Communist Party a thing called democratic centralism, which means that discussion takes place about a problem and reports are made, and I suppose on up the line, that is the theory, and as a result of those discussions a decision is made, and once the decision is made, there is no more discussion or argument. You accept the decision. I didn't see it work. I imagine altogether I attended 30 meetings of the Communist Party in all of my membership in it, and in none of those 30 meetings did I ever hear anything discussed before it became a policy. It was only after it became a policy, and then it was a matter of being sure everybody under- stood it right. That is all. So I would say that there is no semblance of this so-called democratic centralism in the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, do you have any personal knowledge of how those decisions were reached at the top, and handed down to the rank and file members?
Mr. HCGGINS. Well, I don't know how they were reached. I think the method of handing them down was just through the press. As far as I could see, during my time here in Hollywood and in the Hollywood group, they got it all from the press, from their magazines that were brought to the meeting and you were asked to read them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Considerable evidence has been heard by the committee as to the part that the Daily Worker and other organs of the Communist Party played in handing down the directives received from foreign sources. It was a corporation, according to the testimony, set up in New York City which received cables and which were in turn printed by the Daily Worker. I assume they were printed by the other organs of the Communist Party, and through that method it was that the Communist Party directives were handed down.
Mr. HUGGINS. I have no personal knowledge of that, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman ? In that connection, is it not true that following on such world moving or party moving events as the denunciation of the Nazi-Soviet nonaggression pact, and the Duclos letter, that a vast pall of silence would fall on the comrades for several days until they were able to determine just exactly what the word was ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Exactly. There would be, as you say, just a silence, and no one knew what to say, and apparently everyone was afraid to say anything, because I was asked to come to a meeting, and I hadn't been to a meeting for a year or so, but I think about the time of the 4274 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Duclos letter someone called me and said, "We would like you to come to a meeting. We are going to discuss this thing." No one knew what to say. They were just waiting to be told. Once they were told, those who had previously been so outspoken along this line were now just as outspoken along this line. They always seemed to have a ready answer as to why they made the mistake, which I was never able to follow.
Mr. JACKSON. That is democratic centralism?
Mr. HUGGINs. Yes; that is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you familiar with any instances such as that which occurred to Budd Schulberg, when Charles Glenn published the very complimentary article that this is the novel that Hollywood has been waiting for, and then within a week was compelled to reverse his entire line, and destroy all that he had built up ? 
Mr. HUGGINS. No; I know the Maltz situation was similar to that, but that was before I went in there. By the time I got in, no one was talking about that any more. They did seem to be a little displeased with the sort of thing I wrote. As a matter of fact, I think one of the members implied once that my stuff was sort of Fascist writing, and I wrote hard-boiled novels, so-called hard-boiled novels, which they did not like very well, and they wanted to know why I didn't write something good. I said, "Well, you bring me into this thing, you know, and then you ask me to write something good, and it is like recruiting a house painter and then handing him a palette and some oil paints and saying, 'Here, paint canvases now."' That is about how I felt about it. My writing, I felt, was a commercial type of writing, and I didn't consider myself to be an artist, and so they gave up, but there was a good deal of propaganda within that Hollywood group about the time I was there, to get all of the members to write proletarian novels, and this seemed to be the line. They took no political stands on anything in the Hollywood group, and the other groups that I belonged to during the war were just interested in selling war bonds and stuff like that. The Hollywood group was interested only in Hollywood, and they never, as far as I know, had a discussion of world politics.
Mr. TAVENNER. Incidentally, you referred to your membership in the Authors' League or the Authors' Guild. Was it guild or was it league ?
Mr. HUGGINS. The Authors' Guild, which is a member of the Authors' League.
Mr. MOULDER. May I ask a question? As I understand from your association and experience with the Communist Party, the Communist line is antidemocratic; is that so ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; it certainly is. As a matter of fact, it is admittedly antidemocratic in the terms of what we mean by democracy, but they then claim to have their own type, which will come later.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of your early training at the university and the professor who was a Marxist. I understood you to state that in your opinion he was not a member of the Communist Party. Is that correct?
Mr. HUGGINS. That is right. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4275 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether he had associated with him in that work a person who has been the subject of considerable testimony before this committee?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; when I was a student at UCLA, an assistant in the department was Bernadette Doyle. I worked with her; that is, she was reading papers in some of the courses that I took, and now and then she would give a lecture.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did she ever appear before Communist Party meet- ings at which you were present?
Mr. HUGGINS. She never mentioned the Communist Party. She may have. She may have asked me a couple of times why I didn't join the Communist Party, but I don't even remember it actually, and she may have. But that was left up to other people.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you became a member of the party on the first occasion, while you were at the university, did you belong to a group or cell that was organized within the university or on the campus?
Mr. HUGGINS. About the only thing I remember about that group is that it was not a university group. It was apparently a neighborhood group of some kind, but I attended only-I can't even remember-I remember two meetings, and I may have attended more, and I may have forgotten one or two more.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have told us how Albert Maltz was instru- mental in bringing you back into the Communist Party in 1946, and having you assigned to a group of intellectuals within the party. Will you give us the names of the members of that group ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, they have all been named many times. Albert Maltz, Harry Carlisle, Robert Lees, Philip Stevenson and his wifeMr. TAVENNER. What was Stevenson's wife's name ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I think it was Janet. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. While I was speaking, I believe that you mentioned the name of Ben Barzman.
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you name his wife or not ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. IWhat is his wife's name ? 
Mr. HUGGINS. Norma.
Mr. TAVENNER. The name Stevenson is S-t-e-v-e-n-s-o-n; is that correct? 
Mr. HUGGINS. I really don't know. Some of the others were- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Barzman. Do you know the spelling of Barzman ?
Mr. HUGGINS. No; I don't. I don't know whether there is a "z" or not in the name. George Sklar was a member of the group. Guy Endore, E-n-d-o-r-e, I think. There were a half a dozen others.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who was the dues secretary of the group?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; that was Robert Richards and Ann Morgan.
Mr. TAVENNER. Robert Richards and Ann Morgan ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the person that was considered to be the head of this group or cell? 4276 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I suppose that changed, and the only one I remembered-that is another name, Elliott Grennard, and I think he was the nominal head at one time or another.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell Grennard ?
Mr. HUGGI s. I don't know. I have no idea. But the Harry Car- lisle I mentioned, and there are two Harry Carlisles, apparently, in the Communist Party, one of them was recently tried, and the other one is waiting to be deported to England, and that is the one that was in this group, the one that is now up for deportation. Harry Carlisle was the one apparently looked to as the theoretical leader of this particular group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall a person by the name of Leslie Edgley?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; he was a member of the group. I don't know how to spell it.
Mr. TAVENNER. E-d-g-l-e-y?
Mr. HUGGINS. Probably. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall a person by the name of Val Burton?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. B-u-r-t-o-n?
Mr. HUGGINS. I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Com- munist Party and of this group ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wilma Shore?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; that is right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. S-h-o-r-e?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; that is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she known to you personally to be a member of thisgroup ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; she was a member of the group for a short time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Lillith James?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. L-i-l-l-i-t-h James ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she known to you to be a member of the Com- munist Party ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; some of the meetings were held at her house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall the names of other persons in whose homes
Mr. HUGGINs. George Sklar, I believe is the name, and the Stevenson home was used on occasions, and I think that is it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Dan James ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Only by hearsay. I think I met Dan James at non- Communist functions on occasion.
Mr. TAVENNER. Not at the time you entered the Communist Party back in 1943, I believe it was?
Mr. HUGGINS. I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. The second time. 
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of the group that you were as- signed to on that occasion?
Mr. HUGGINS. I guess it was a semiprofessional group as far as I have been able to figure it out. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4277 
Mr. TAVENNER. What professions were represented in that group, if you can tell us?
Mr. HUGGINS. There was a doctor-Dr. Abowitz and his wife were members of that group, Murray Abowitz, andMr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it?
Mr. HUGGINS. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I understand you to mention his wife's name?
Mr. HUGGINS. She was a member of that group.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her name ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I don't know.
Mr. WooD. Was she also likewise a doctor?
Mr. HUGGINS. I don't think so.
Mr. JACKSON. Was her name Ellenore?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; that is it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall other professions that were represented in that group?
Mr. HUGGINS. There was an optometrist named Howard Davis and his wife, and there was a lawyer whose name I can't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the wife of the optometrist ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I don't remember it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether her name was Shirley?
Mr. HUGGINS. I don't think so. It may have been. Really, as I say, I attended very few meetings, and I do not know. These are the only members whose names I remember, and it was a large group, and there must have been 40 or 50 members of that group, and I only remember 4 people in it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you recall a lawyer. Do you know his name ?
Mr. HUGGINS. No; I have forgotten his name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall where that group met ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I think it was at the Davis house. I am not certain of that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the circumstances under which you united with the party on that occasion; that is, whether or not you were requested to come into the party, or whether you did it entirely on your own initiative, and, if so, to whom did you make your application ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I think as in the first place, when I finally took the action, it was my own action taken on my own initiative. I don't know how I found out where to go, but I went downtown in Hollywood somewhere, and I went upstairs and found a man named John Stapp-S t a p p-I think, and asked him to assign me in a group in the Communist Party, which he did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, in stating the fallacies of Marxism and the other views that you have expressed regarding the Communist Party, I assume that those matters played a great part in your withdrawing from the Communist Party; but, if there is anything else that you desire to state with regard to your withdrawal Irom the Communist Party I would like tohear it now.
Mr. HUGGINS. No; I think that the basic reason for my withdrawal was the same reason that I withdrew when I first went in: That I felt that the party had finally reached a point where you simply could not 4278 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY be a member of the Communist Party and consider yourself to be an American citizen. It was that simple. To me, instead of my being wrong about them in 1940 and right in 1943, it turned out to be the opposite.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter, do you have any questions?
Mr. WALTER. I have no questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. I noticed your voluntary statement that the Communist Party is admittedly antidemocratic. In connection with that statement, you said "but they claim to have a type of their own which will come later." Now, what type of democratic process do they claim will come later; and, if that is a fair question, when do you think it will come?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I think it is something they don't talk about very much any more. It is something that Marx and Lenin talked about a great deal; at least, I think Lenin did and I know Marx did. That was the type of democracy that you would have in a stateless society, or in classless society. According to Marx, that is a pure kind of democracy, in which there would be no state at all.
Mr. DOYLE. Then I take it that that answer is the one you explained before ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; that this is the so-called withering-away-of-the- state theory, which history is every day proving to be wrong.
Mr. DOYLE. Three or four times you stated that the Communist Party in America is such that you cannot be a loyal American and a member of the Communist Party in America. I am not sure that I grasp the ultimate conclusion yet. Why can you not be ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, it is based on two things. One, I think it is abundantly proved that the Communist Party line always reflects Soviet foreign policy. If you accept that, as I do, that is the basis for the assumption. Now, there are other bases for it. A member of the Communist Party must take discipline and must do as he is told to do, and this is another clear-cut fact about communism. 
Mr. DOYLE. Then you mean that the Soviet foreign policy is contrary to the best interests of the policy of the United States. Is that why you cannot accept it and still be a loyal American ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Soviet foreign policy turns about, or Soviet propa- ganda, let us say, which is the basis for the Communist Party line here, turns everything that this country does upside down. We aid democracy in Europe, and it is called warmongering. We come to the aid through the United Nations of the South Koreans, and we are called again warmongers, and the world is even told that the South Koreans started the war, and not the North Koreans at all, and we are just trying to put a yoke on the peoples of Asia. This is the line of the Soviet Union.
Mr. MOULDER. Or the world revolution, would you say ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I did not hear that question.
Mr. MOULDER. I will wait until Mr. Doyle is through.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated it appears democracy has a lot more vitality than was thought. What vitality has democracy that you did not think it had, and what have you discovered it has? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4279 
Mr. HUGGINS..Well, as I said, in 1940, how many democracies were there in the industrial nations of the world? There were just two. There were only two. Fascism had a complete grip on the world. Now today there are a lot of democracies, and they are fighting almost as if it were a new thing. it is a new world today. It has tremendous vitality and spirit, and 
Mr. DOYLE. 1 was interested in your comment that any difference of opinion was immediately frowned upon by the chief intellectuals of the group. I think that was your correct testimony. What do you mean by the chief intellectuals of the group? Who were they and how were they chosen ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I suppose what I mean was that there were certain people in the group who were simply recognized by others as saying more than the others, and saying it with a better choice of communistic jargon, and there is a special Communist jargon, which I was never able to master, but I would say these are the people that I referred to. The response always for any man who gets out of line is to start implying that something is wrong with him, and they start calling him names, you know, "You are guilty of bourgeois deviation, comrade," and that sort of thing.
Mr. DOYLE. Was there any act or omission which you participated in, directly or indirectly, as you look back at it, which in your judgment should have labeled you as a Communist at the university, and caused you to be denied a fellowship ?
Mr. HUGGINS. None at all; not one.
Mr. DOYLE. You certainly were, according to your Phi Beta Kappa record and other statements of scholarship made by you, you were a diligent thinker and an intellectual.
Mr. HGGINS. I was what is known as a premature anti-Fascist. 
Mr. DOYLE. Have you any suggestions to make to this committee in the functioning of our responsibilities to the American people, through the United States Congress-do you know what our responsibility is ? It is to uncover wherever possible subversive activities of people who would advocate or use force and violence to overthrow the Constitution of the United States. Have you any advice for us or suggestions or criticism, even ? I have never talked with you, sir. I have never talked with you, have I, and I realize in asking you this question I am doing it right out of a clear sky to you.
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes, that is true.
Mr. DOYLE. And yet I feel that if you have a statement, I would like to get it. 
Mr. HUGGINS. I think that you are in a spot, because there isn't any question in my mind at all but there is a great need for democracy to do something about the subversive drives which intend to overthrow it. This is one of the things that disturbed me deeply about the Communist Party, is that they do not believe in individual freedom, and yet they shout to the housetops in defense of individual freedom in all of the democratic countries in which they exist. They become champions of complete political freedom. The moment they get power, they will destroy political freedom. It seems to be one more evidence of their complete lack of integrity or scrupulousness or anything else. 4280 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY So I think that to the Communist, capitalism is going to be in a sense an easy thing to overthrow, eventually, I suppose, because we do have a tendency to fail to fight our enemies properly, but I suppose one of the reasons for that is that it would be a terrible thing if we were to fight tyranny by becoming a tyranny ourselves, isn't that so ? This would be a terrible thing if we are anti-Communist because we feel that Communists destroy individual freedom and liberty, and in fighting communism, we destroy individual freedom and liberty. This would be a fight in vain. So I think that is why I say this committee is in a terrible spot, because I think that subversive elements must be fought, and I think democracy has to fight for its life, and it can't just sit back and say, "Well, history will take care of us." It has got enemies and it has to fight those enemies but it has to fight them within the framework of the democratic system, or it might as well not fight at all, because it loses the battle in the means it chooses to use to fight that battle. I don't know whether that answers your question or not.
Mr. DOYLE. I think it does, sir. Thank you very much.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Frazier
Mr. FRAZIER. I have no questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. No questions.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Huggins, we are talking about this pall of silence that falls upon the party immediately following one of these abrupt right-angle turns in foreign policy of the Soviet Union. What physical steps then follow on the part of those who are responsible for the rationalization of this situation? There must be a lot of unhappy, disgruntled comrades who have been caught in the middle of a breath.
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I wasn't in the party when it happened in 1939, and I wasn't attending meetings when it happened in 1946, I think, the Duclos letter, or in 1945, so I wish I were more of an expert. I have an opinion on this, but I can't say that I observed it first-hand. What I have seen is this, that a few seem to get lost, at every one of these turns, a few fall off, but most of them just sit back and say nothing, and are very quiet about it until a few weeks have passed, and then they start talking the new line, and it is just not mentioned, that is all. It is like the family with a drunken uncle, you know. The uncle comes home drunk and they have to put him to bed, but they don't talk about it after they get him to bed.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, the party has had more than its share of uncles with respect to these abrupt turns.
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes, sir.
Mr. JAcxsoN. Would you consider that there is any thinking indi- vidual who seriously believes the Soviet Union to be a classless society today?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I suppose yes, in a theoretical sense, it is a classless society, and I know what you mean, and it actually has a huge burdensome bureaucracy, and then a working class, and that is it, and they are two very distinct classes in the Soviet Union.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, of course, so far as the Communists themselves are concerned, there are 2 million out of the entire population of the Soviet Union who actually belong to the Communist Party, and that would seem to me to.-be prima facie evidence of a lack of any, classless nature. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4281 
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; I would say that they are the new Czarist aris- tocracy of Russia, and they act exactly the same way.
Mr. JACKSON. To what do you attribute the violence of the Com- munist attack upon this nature? Is it that the say, with constitutional or is it possibly that the true? I do not know. committee, and the other committees of like Communists are seriously concerned, let us government as we know it in this country, fact that exposure is to be avoided? Is that 
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I think there are two things; both questions can be answered "Yes." I don't recall the exact source, but I know that even Marx himself wrote that the Communist Parties must be prepared to make use of democratic freedoms; that this is one of the greatest weapons they have. That is why you have a real problem.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, is the utility of a Communist who is exposed publicly, in any way affected so far as the party is concerned ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I would say it depends on what his role is in society. I am sure that if a man is highly placed in Government, it is in the interest of the Communist Party not to have him exposed, or if a man is placed in any position where as long as he is unexposed can do something that the Communist Party thinks is worth while.
Mr. JACKSON. Then from the standpoint of America, exposure is an excellent idea ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Yes; I would say so.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you make any distinction in your own mind, Mr. Huggins, as between a Communist in the city of Los Angeles, and a Communist in the North Korean or Chinese Red armies philosophically ? Do they have the same goal, or is there any material differences in what they are seeking? I am assuming now the North Korean or the Chinese Red is an intelligent man who is well read. What is the material, the fundamental difference, if any, between his counterpart in this country and him ?
Mr. HUGGINS. Well, I don't know much about it. I would not know how to answer that, because I just haven't any idea what a Korean Communist thinks about, you know, what he is a Communist for. And I don't know. I have a suspicion that they are very much alike in that they are both the dupes of the Soviet Union, and they are both being used for the purposes of the Soviet Union, and in that respect they are very much alike.
Mr. JACKSON. Mao Tse-tung and William Z. Foster studied the same text.
Mr. HUGGINS. I am sure that they have basically pretty much the same goals, which are to further the interests of the Soviet Union.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you very much, Mr. Huggins. Your testi- mony is greatly appreciated.
Mr. MOULDER. You do not know of any Communists in our Government; do you, Mr. Huggins ? 
Mr. HUGGINS. No; I don't.
Mr. MOULDER. Thank you. That is all I have.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Counsel, have you any further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Do you know of any reason why this witness should not be excused from further attendance on the committee ?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir; but I would like to make just one comment, to follow up the question that was asked by Representative Jackson, 4282 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY in regard to Communists in Korea and in the United States, and just call the committee's attention to the testimony of General Willoughby, who testified that the procedures back in 1929 and 1930 in China were identical with those of the Communist Party as used in this country to capture organizations and people. So the procedure has been the same regardless of what the individual himself may think.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, may I at this point, possibly, if it is ap- propriate for me to say to Mr. Huggins, in view of Representative Jackson's question and Mr. Tavenner's additional statement, that I have just returned from South Korea. Two weeks ago Gen. Mark Clark and General Van Fleet told me that there was no question but that the aggressive communism and subversive communism that we have in America and in South Korea emanates from the Soviet Union, and they told me that 2 weeks ago.
Mr. WOOD. From one and the same source. 
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. I was there 2 weeks ago. 
Mr. HUGGINs. I am convinced of that.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Huggins, I have been very much interested in listen- ing to your testimony, and it has been most enlightening in many respects. I also feel a very keen sense of appreciation for the contribution you have made to the work of the committee in thus being willing to come before us, and frankly give the committee the information that you have on this subject. I believe it will be most helpful to the committee, and I think I bespeak the sentiments of the entire committee when I say we are most grateful to you for coming here. If there is no further question by any of the committee of its counsel, I take the liberty of excusing you from further attendance.
Mr. Counsel, whom do you have next ?
Mr. TAVENNER. We have no further witnesses this afternoon, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. In that connection, it might be well, I believe, to an- nounce that following the setting up of these hearings and the designation of today as the beginning of them, it came to the attention of the committee that this session today would most likely interfere with a certain religious holiday, and therefore the committee saw fit to recognize any requests that were made by witnesses under subpena to come before the committee on this day for the postponement of their testimony until a future time, and they so indulged every request that was made, and for that reason it is the only witness that we will be able to hear. The committee will stand in recess until 9: 30 in the morning. (Thereupon at 3: 15 p. m., a recess was taken until 9: 30 a. m., Tuesday, September 30, 1952.)  