Mrs. RICHARDs. Silvia Richards. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you born, Mrs. Richards?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Indianola, Iowa.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee, please, a brief statement of what your formal educational training has been?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I went to grade school and high school in Colorado Springs, Colo., and I went to Colorado College in Colorado Springs for 2 years. 414 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel?
Mrs. RICHARDS. No, sir; I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. I suppose you have seen enough of these hearings to know that all witnesses have the privilege of asking or seeking the advice of counsel at any time during their testimony, if they so desire.
Mrs. RICHARDS. I understand that.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation, Mrs. Richards?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I am a screen writer and formerly a radio writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in the business of radio and screen writing?
Mrs. RIOHARDS. Since sometime in 1944. That is about 9 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you begin in that work-in California or in the State of New York?
Mrs. RICHARDS. In California. I came out here in October of 1943, and I started writing radio scripts, because my husband and I had separated and he had gone into the Army, and it was a matter of necessity. I worked that year on Cavalcade of America, Suspense, Rogues' Gallery, Philip Morris Playhouse, and various other mystery programs. Mostly on Cavalcade of America and Suspense.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was in the course of your work in connection with radio script writing?
Mrs. RicHAEDs. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a description of your work as a screen writer '
Mrs. RICHARDs. Well, sometime in 1945 I went to work at Warner Bros. on Possessed, a picture starring Joan Crawford. Later I worked at Universal-International for an independent company, Walter Wanger-a partnership of Walter Wanger and Fritz Lang.
Mr. TAVENNER Would you mind raising your voice just a little?
Mrs. RICHARDS. All right. And I was under contract to them for about 21/2 to 3 years. The only credit during that period was a picture called Secret Beyond The Door. Subsequently I did a picture called Tomahawk for Universal-International, and I worked briefly at Columbia. I sold some original stories, including the original story for Rancho Notorious, and this last year I did a picture for BernhardtVidor Productions, for Twentieth Century-Fox release, called "Ruby Gentry." Since then I have also worked at Columbia again, and am now working at Twentieth Century-Fox.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in receipt of information which it has had for a period of time, indicating that you were at one time a member of the Communist Party, and also that you are not a member of the Communist Party at this time.
Mrs. RICHARDS. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU were a member of the Communist Party at one time.
Mrs. RICHARnns. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you a member of the Communist Party?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Well, I was a member from either late in 1937 or early 1938 up until early 1946, with several long leaves of absence during the time that I had my children and had problems of illness and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Up until about what time?1 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 415 
Mrs. RICHARDS. Early 1946 is about as close as I can fix it. It was in relation-I can fix it in relation to other events later.
Mr. MOULDER. May I inquire what you mean by leave of absence ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. For instance, when I married and was leavingthis was when I lived in New York, and was leaving New York and leaving my present activities when I knew I was going to have a child. I asked for a leave of absence from the party and this is often given under certain circumstances, and so I had no activity in the organization until after the birth of my second child, which was 21/2 years later.
Mr. CLARDY. I think it would help if you would stay a little closer to the microphone and face counsel over here, regardless who of us may ask questions. It is hard to hear you when you turn your head.
Mrs. RICHARDS. It is a little difficult getting used to it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, where were you residing in 1937 when you became a member of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. In New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. How were you employed at that time?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Well, I went to work in New York City in September of 1936. I did a little of free-lance radio work then, although it was not successful, and I think that at that time I was working for the World's Fair Corporation in the publicity department where I worked up until the opening of the fair. This was on the preparation of the fair before it opened.
Mr. T.AirsNR. Now, let me ask you to tell the committee the circumstances which led up to your becoming a member of the Communist Party.
Mrs. RICHARDS. As I say, I went to New York in 1936 and New York as a whole had a tremendous impact on me. I had come from a nonindustrial, middle class town. I think anybody knows Colorado Springs. It is very different from New York.
Mr. CLARDY. What town was that?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Colorado Springs. In my youth I had heard a great deal of political discussions, because my father's family for many generations had been teachers and ministers and missionaries with an enormous concern about social questions, so I had some previous interest in these questions. But when I arrived in New York after my father's death, and during the depression, I felt somewhat mentally, I think, adrift. I remember on May 1, 1937, I saw the May Day parade, which was, I believe, one of the biggest May Day parades ever held in New York. It was during the Spanish war.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you elevate your voice a little?
Mrs. RICHARDS. All right. It was during the Spanish war and there was a tremendous amount of emotion around this parade, and I was deeply impressed by it and moved by it. I don't know whether it was subsequent to that or just previously that I met a man socially through a mutual friend, who was either the circulation manager for Soviet Russia Today or the financial manager for Soviet Russia Today. But after the May Day parade, in conversations with him, I learned that he was a Communist, and he told me how the Communist Party was in the leadership on all 416 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA these questions which concerned me; the rise of fascism in Europe and the Spanish war, the questions of unemployment and the depression. He saw that I was interested and he invited me to visit a neighborhood branch on Avenue C near Fourth Street in New York City. I went and visited it sometime during the summer of 1937 with him, andMr. TAVENNER. I would like to interrupt you at that point.
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was this person that you say was connected with Soviet Russia Today, who suggested that you attend Communist Party meetings?
Mrs. RICHARDs. His name, I believe, was Herbert Goldfrank.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us any further identification of the person, as to what he did andMrs RICHARDS. Well, his job at that time was, as I say, with Soviet Russia Today. I met him through a friend who was not at all interested in politics, but who had been acquainted with him or had become acquainted with him at Time, Inc., where I think Mr. Goldfrank was trying to raise money among certain contacts at Time, Inc. They had a fund drive on at the time, and, as I say, the friend, I am sure, had no political interest in him at all. He brought him home to a cocktail party or something of that sort, and that is how I became acquainted with him. I am afraid I cannot give any further identification, because the only other time I saw him was in the Avenue C branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. I may say, Mr Chairman, that the individual mentioned was further mentioned in the hearings involving Leon Josephson. 9
Mr. WALTER. Do you know where Mr. Goldfrank is today 
Mrs. RICHARDS. No. I have had no contact with him at all after 1938. He was extremely active at that time, but I have had no contact with him since at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, we think we know in what business he is now engaged, but possibly I should not say anything further without additional checking.
Mr. WALTER. Certainly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, as a result of your conference with him you attended this Communist Party meeting?
Mrs. RICHARDS. That is correct. I didn't join then, I know. The only way I can pin down the time when I joined was that it must have been winter, because there was snow on the ground that night. I remember walking a tremendous distance to a subway. Avenue C was very difficult to reach, and I was walking through snow, so it must have been early in that winter of 1937 when I joined the Communist Party. I attended meetings at Avenue C at this neighborhood branch for a little more than a year. It was a very big neighborhood branch which had mostly open meetings, which people from the neighborhood attended. I couldn't estimate the membership. It must have been as much as 100.' They were a very large branch. They were very large meetings. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 417 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what was the primary objective or interest of this group of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. This particular group involved itself in neighborhood questions. There was a canvassing of the neighborhood, for instance, to inform people of their rights under I believe it is the old-age-tenement law. There was a big drive by the party, in other words, the party tried to make itself a kind of service organization to the neighborhood in order, of course, to gain sympathy and members. Then there was a tremendous open air protest meeting held at the site of a tenement fire. There was a tenement fire where several people had been killed and they held a marathon open air protest meeting. I remember that. In addition to that, there was the collection of money for Spain, and large educational forums of various kinds, the selling of the Daily and Sunday Worker. And of course any particular political drives of the party at the time, the collecting of signatures on petitions and financial drives for the support of the party itself took place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, to what extent were you active in those interests or objectives of the Communist Party?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Well, I never held any office in that branch, except once or twice I think I was in charge of selling literature for the evening. I attended many of the meetings, the open-air ones, and then I remember going once in a white uniform or supposedly a white uniform to look like a nurse to collect money for Spain in front of a theater. I loaned my car for a parade once. That is about all. I attended meetings. As a matter of fact, at that period and probably for months of my party life, I was something which I think causes a great deal of trouble in the world; I was a political dilettante. I am not saying this with any pride or frivolity. I think you can become engaged in activities which you would not have thought about-which you did not think about thoroughly and which you were not willing to really face the consequences of, because of immaturity, but, nevertheless, that causes a great deal of trouble in the world and that period, particularly, I was a dilettante. A great deal of it was for fun. It gave me a certain sense of excitement and importance, and I think that a great many people who join the Communist Party, while they join on the basis of such issues as fascism and unemployment, really do it for other reasons. This does not explain why 98 percent of the people who are sincerely concerned about these questions do not feel the need to become a Communist. I think I became a Communist because I was young and was irresponsible and because I didn't want to think for myself. It was extremely comforting to have all the answers in a series of books and I would never have to think again. I think that is why a lot of people will continue to cling to Communist thinking, even when the facts don't fit, because it is a little painful to take responsibility finally for your own thinking and for your own mistakes.
Mr. TAVENNER. But in that connection do you not feel that young people in particular, if information is furnished them and made available to them as to the seriousness of the final consequences of supporting an international conspiracy, that they might be led out of the Communist Party instead of finally being driven out of it? 418 COlMiMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes, sir, I do think so. And I think if we give them-I think if there is a really aggressive campaign on the positive values of a democracy, that some of the satisfactions which young people find in the Communist Party they can find in normal democratic life.
Mr. TAVENNER. You would emphasize then the great importance of an educational campaign ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Phase of the problem.
Mrs. RICHARDS. I certainly would, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes.
Mr. MOULDER. How old were you at the time you joined the Communist Party ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I was 20. Now, when I say I was immature-some people are immature at 20-I happened to be very slow at growing up, and I am talking about my judgment through the years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell us at this time who were those who were principally responsible for leadership in that group of the Communist Party, of which you were a member, between 1937 and 1938?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Mr. Tavenner, I can give you some names from that period but I am not at all certain how valuable they will be, since from that branch we had party names, and my party name, for instance, was Silvia Peters. Herbert Goldfrank's party name at that time was Herbert Davis. Now, he was the only person I knew socially at all outside of the branch meetings, and so I didn't have occasion to know them or to know whether their names were real or were assumed for that branch. There was a man named Ed Brandy. I don't know how it was spelled. That is how it was pronounced. There was a man, an elderly man named Torg. I suppose that is spelled T-o-r-g. There was a man named Becker, I remember. These people were in some ways in the leadership. Now, Ed Brandy, for instance, taught the beginner's class to which I went. There was a woman named Greenberg, and then there was a man I knew only as Comrade Lev. That was evidently an abbreviation of his fir.t name. I understood he was a publisher. Most of the people were from that neighborhood, although there were a few like myself who came from another neighborhood, who were middle-class or professional people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not individuals were recruited from that cell of the Communist Party into the specialized work of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I have no personal knowledge of that. I had a feeling that I myself was there in order to be, so to speak, educated as a proletarian. That was completely outside any of my previous experience. I had no real basis for contact with the people in that neighborhood, I mean by origin, by work. In every way they were different from myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did that continue, that is, your association? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 419 
Mrs. RICHARDS. My association through the Avenue C branch continued until shortly after my marriage. I was married in, I think November of 1938. Shortly after that I knew that I was going to have a child and we were going to move to the country, and so as I say, I applied for a leave of absence and was granted a leave of absence.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return to active work in the party?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Well, during the period of leave of absence-I am not sure if it was absolutely regular or not, but I was contacted-we moved to Rockland County, N. Y., Palisades. It is also known as Sneeden's Landing. It is a little town on the Hudson about 12 miles above the George Washington Bridge, and sometime during that, occasionally during that period I was contacted by the section organizer for the payment of dues and probably for the collection of money. I remember some visits from 2 or 3 different section organizers during that time. The section, as I understood, was composed of three counties, Westchester, Rockland, and another county, and the section organizer, part of his duties, his or her duties, would be to ride around and contact people who were in sort of far-flung districts. Then sometime after October 1941, I began to go to some of the neighborhood, the countywide neighborhood meetings in Rockland County. I was also engaged at that time in a tremendous amount of war activities. I was in civil defense, and an airplane watcher, and I worked for Russian War Relief, British War Relief, and I also was active in the American Labor Party, all of which was in a sense considered by me to be party work, since the position of the party at that time was entirely "win the war" emphasis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, during the period when you were a member of this first group in New York CityMrs. RICHARDS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was your group addressed at any time by high functionaries from the party, and if so, by whom?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes, it was from time to time. I can remember three of them-Mother Bloor addressed a meeting, and Israel Amter, and Roy Hudson. Those are the three I remember, but there were other people from the national headquarters who did address meetings there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall now what functions those persons had in the Communist Party?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I don't know whether they were at that time members of the national committee. I would be guessing, I am afraid. I know that they were all from the national headquarters of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, when did you come to California ?
Mrs .RICHARDS. I came to California in October of 1943. However, I did not contact the party out here until the following April. I had a certain amount of personal trouble, and then after my husband and I separated I again contacted the Communist Party in Santa Monica.
Mr. TAVENNER. How did you make that contact?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I have been trying to remember that. I remember before I left Rockland County taking a trip across into Westchester to the home of the section organizer, who was at that time a woman. I am very sorry but I can't remember her name. I think that I informed her that I was coming to California. However, I do not remember a formal transfer, and I don't remember turning in a formal transfer. 420 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA I was contacted out here by a man by the name of Vidaver, Matt Vidaver.
Mr. TAWENXER. Can you further identify him? Can you give further identification or information regarding him?
Mrs. RICHARDS. At that time, I don't know what his work was. I had an impression he was working in a cement factory or something of that sort, but he was-I also had the impression that he was, whether paid or not, a party functionary.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you learn that he was the Communist Party organizer for the Bay City Club of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. It was my impression he was an official or a functionary of the group that met at Ocean Park. Another thing I cannot remember is its being called the Bay City Club, although I understand that that is what it was called. In my memory it was merely the club which met in Ocean Park.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were telling us of this individual meeting you.
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes. He contacted me. The major activity of that club at that time was the establishment of a bookstore in Santa Monica called the Thomas Jefferson Book Store. I went to some meetings with Matt Vidaver in Ocean Park. The branch met in a rented hall near the amusement pier. I told them that I had very little time. I remember informing Matt and others that I had very little time. I had just begun to write for the radio. I was very lousy at it, it was painful, and I also had the full-time care of two very young boys, and a 7-bedroom house, and it was wartime and there was no help, even if I could have afforded it. So I explained all this, and they said that the major activity was in relation to the bookstore, the attendance at meetings was not the most important thing, and that-this was during the period when the party was called the Communist Political Association, and Browder had expounded the theory that the party did not need to have the regular meetings and the political activity that it had in the past, that it could operate openly in an educational capacity, that we were going to have a peaceful evolution from capitalism to socialism. And as a result I didn't attend meetings regularly during that period. However, having this large house, which was, I am sure, the largest house in the branch, my house was used for numerous parties and for, possibly, other activities. This I am not certain about. But it was certainly used for parties to raise money for the bookshop.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the address of your house ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. 607 Ocean Front. It was a very fancy house, indeed, and one I could ill afford. That is why I became a writer. I had to write day and night to pay the rent.
Mr. WALTER. You said they said that it wasn't important to attend meetings. Who do you mean by "they"?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I meant the branch executives. I applied to the branch executive. I know Matt Vidaver was an executive of that branch. It was my impression a man named Bill Young was also a member. Possibly his wife Molly was, although I am not certain, although I knew them both in this group. They are two of the people that I remember in the group, and I know that Bill Young was, undoubtedly was an executive on that group. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 421 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now will you tell the committee just how these functions were arranged and who suggested them, the benefit parties for various Communist Party projects?
Mrs. RICHARDS. The first one, there was a discussion during the branch meeting, they asked who had a house, and I raised my hand. And then a committee was appointed to run the party. So that most of the arrangements were out of my hands. They would have raffles and sell drinks and charge admission. Because it was a beach house, I think some of them were daytime parties and people went swimming. That I am extremely foggy about. As I say, I was writing. That year I wrote-I looked it up the other day-I wrote 62 half-hour radio scripts which is something like 30 full-length movies. It was a tremendous volume of work. So I wasn't present when all the arrangements were made. Sometimes I was upstairs typing, people were downstairs. I remember once raising a beef about them not cleaning up when they left, or something, and they appointed a cleanup committee for the next one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you used the expression that you were advised, in effect, that it wasn't so important to attend meetings; that the principal emphasis was upon the work at the bookshop and educational.
Mrs. RIc nRDs. This was the period which preceded the Duclos letter, and because of this, Browder was, as a matter of fact, accused of destroying the apparatus of the party. In a sense he did. I think it is very interesting that the party felt itself incapable of functioning on the kind of broad base that Browder envisioned. For whatever reasons he envisioned it, I am not going into Mr. Browder's motives. It is true that during the Browder period the party Americanized itself, it adapted itself to the peculiar and unique aspects of the American scene much more than it had before or since. And the Duclos letter said that this policy was destroying the apparatus of the party. It is perfectly true that people did not attend meetings as regularly when they didn't have to, as they did later.
Mr. TAvENNER. You mentioned the receipt of the Duclos letter.
Mrs. RwCHaRDS. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the effect of the receipt of the Duclos letter in the group of the Communist Party to which you were assigned ? 
Mrs. RICHARDS. I went to that meeting. I was called by Matt Vidaver who said it was an extremely important required meeting. There was a discussion. Rather, no discussion, a reading of the directives is really what it amounted to from New York on the question of Earl Browder. There was an attempt at a discussion. I can remember several elderly people who were bewildered and confused by the fact that Mr. Browder was suddenly in the doghouse, and then they were beaten down and there was a unanimous vote by that branch to expel Browder from the party. And which, of course, must have happened unanimously in every branch throughout the United States.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why do you say it happened unanimously throughout the United States? Take your own group, for instance, was that the unanimous feeling of the members of your group, that all that Browder had done should be repudiated? 31747-53-pt. 1-11 422 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mrs. RICHARDS. Well, there were a few articulate people who presented the reasons. The objections were, a few objections were, raised. As I can remember, they were treated, the objections, with withering contempt. An elderly man was told he was not really-he didn't really understand the science of Marxism, Leninism, that it was only lack of political education which really was raising objections. That, after all, the leadership of the party in New York and the leadership of the party throughout the world were agreed to it, so that they acquired a unanimous vote. I don't know what feelings-I know-what the individual feelings were. I know this was the moment, the first moment when I-my own feelings began drastically to cool, although it took some time for me to move all the way out. It was around the question of the new type of party versus the party of Browder that I began to have my first doubts in relation to the organization, my first serious doubts.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were those who took the leadership and the sponsorship of the Duclos letter?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I cannot remember who presented it that evening. I know that people I have mentioned were active, but then there were some other younger people. There was an organization, a girl who acted as educational secretary named Dorothy Olson, and her husband, Ben Olson, was fairly articulate in the group. I remember mostly these few younger people because they were the ones who contacted me outside party activities. They would come down to use the beach and they were the ones whom I saw socially, to a certain extent. , There was another girl I remember, named Celia Wilby. I don't know whether that is "ey" or "y." She at that time, I believe, was working at the Douglas plant.
Mr. TAVENNER. Working at what plant?
Mrs. RICHARDS. At the Douglas plant.
Mr. CLARDY. Counsel, might I suggest-we know what the Duclos letter is and all about it, but a brief word at this time might be fitting, I think, so everyone would understand it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; I think that is a good suggestion. What did you understand by the Duclos letter?
Mrs. RICHARDS. The Duclos letter, as I understood it-and I am far from being a profound political thinker-was a letter written by a French Communist named Duclos, which appeared, I believe, first in L'Humanit, or one of the other French Communist publications, discussing the American Communist Party and Browder's theory of the peaceful evolution of capitalism to socialism. This letter was the signal for a concerted attack on Browder and this country. I have a feeling it was the signal for a change of policy of the international Communist movement following the war. In a sense it was a signal that the honeymoon was over.
Mr. TAVENNER. I may add, by the testimony of a high former Communist Party functionary, upon the receipt of that letter that individual stated that he considered it a declaration of war by the Soviet Union against the United States. That the only element of uncertainty was the time at which it would occur. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 423 
Mrs. RICHARDS. Well, I believe it certainly was a declaration that the alliance was ended, that the peaceful alliance that went on during the war was over. They felt that now, far from working with the United States, that their interests were diametrically opposed to those of the United States.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the Duclos letter considered a directive from the Communist Party International to the Communist Party in the United States?
Mrs. RICHARDS. It was treated as such. It is very hard, when you are in the lower echelons, to know how much weight to give the various directives that come. But one thing is certain, that the debate was very short, that the change was very rapid. Within a matter of weeks the Communist Party had changed its entire face in relation to policy in this country.
Mr. JACKSON. Actually, following the Duclos letter and denunciation of Browder, the party again went underground, as distinguished from the Communist Political Association?
Mrs. RICHARDS. During the next year there was a tremendous reorganization. The groups were made smaller. I suppose that was for security reasons. The word "underground" I never heard. I did hear at times comments of preparations to go underground.
Mr. JACKSON. The meetings were not advertised in the press?
Mrs. RICHARDS. They were no longer open meetings. They tightened it up tremendously in relation to the recruiting in the next group I belonged to, which I will tell you about later, and I belonged to'only briefly; you could no longer bring people to the meeting. The names of possible recruits were presented to the meeting and discussed thoroughly. If there were any real security objections, the person could not be recruited.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, wouldn't it be well to fix the approximate date of that Duclos letter? I think it was April or May 1945.
Mrs. RICHARDS. It was in the spring of 1945. I am not certain of the date.
Mr. TAVENNER. In May of 1945.
Mr. CLARDY. It served as a public declaration of policy, that shortcircuited the necessity of going through channels. It notified all Communist Party members that because of the position that Duclos occupied, what the line was to be from there on out, didn't it?
Mrs. RICHARDS. That is right. I suppose there was a chance that a revolt-I meant a split-could have occurred, a serious split in the Communist Party. There was a gamble there because, as a matter of fact, Browder enjoyed brief personal popularity. I know-at least, I have heard-I don't know anybody that left because of Browder. I am certain that some members of the party and probably some very, very able members left with him.
Mr. WALTER. That is why their groups were smaller. You said they were made smaller. They were made smaller because of resentment.
Mrs. RicHARDS. Yes; I am certain a great number of people left at this time. Whether right or wrong, Browder did adapt himself to the American scene. Whether right or wrong in his theories, which is not really the question, or what his basic intentions were, he certainly presented the Communist position differently than anybody else had. 424 ACTIVITIES COM1MNIST IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. WALTER. And he had a personal following.
Mrs. RICHARDS. A large personal following.
Mr. CLARDY. Doesn't that letter give about the best illustration of the iron discipline that prevailed in the Communist apparatus?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes. The question of discipline is very interesting to me It has something to do with why I joined the party. I think a large number of people are in the party because they don't want to think for themselves. They like the security for only the right answer and the unquestioned right answer, and therefore they don't dare to question these directives, because they are flung out in the cold world, where they have to figure out the answers themselves.
Mr. CLARDY. Their whole foundation is gone, in other words?
Mrs. RICHARDS. It is a question of personal inside security with many, many people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, who was the treasurer of this group ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I cannot remember, sir. I remember paying dues, but there is no face connected with it. I did pay dues at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the names of the persons who were members of this group with you, which you have described?
Mrs. RICHARDS. This Ocean Park group?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mrs. RICHARDS. I have given you about all the people that I can remember in the group. There were many other people, but because I had no social life with them and because I was so busy I-I believe I have given you all I know. Celia Wilby and Dorothy Olson, Bill and Molly Young and Matt Vidaver. Now, all of these I remember because they seemed to be active in these parties that were given at my house, and as I say, there may have been other activities at the house. My memory is very incomplete.
Mr. TAVENNER. You told us a moment ago you joined or were assigned to still another group of the Communist Party.
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes. It was shortly after the Duclos letter. Shortly after the Duclos letter there was a plan to form a separate radio branch. Now, this is not radio writers, but anybody working in radio.
Mr. TAVENNER. That means technicians, as well as writers?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes. Anybody working in the field of radio. The reason for forming the branch, I believe, was to recruit. Actually, there were very few people in radio at that time who were members of the Communist Party. I think they later did successfully recruit a considerable number of people. I was told to call, I believe told by Matt, or else-I don't know whether I made the call or the call was made to me, but the first contact was Sam Moore, a radio writer. He asked me to meet with him to discuss organizing a radio branch. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you there a moment.
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. In your discussion of this matter with Sam Moore, did you learn the underlying purpose of the Communist Party in endeavoring to organize a cell within radio? 
Mrs. RICHARDS. The only purpose I can remember was the purpose of recruiting Communist Party members. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 425 Now, when you get to whether I understood the purpose of the Communist Party, I was interested in hearing some of the other witnesses here on this question, because I knew the purposes of the Communist Party, in one way, from the beginning. I don't see how anyone can go on to beginners' class of the Communist Party without understanding it has an eventual aim as well as the immediate goal, and the eventual aim is to seize power for the proletariat and to destroy the institutions of the capital estate. I learned that in lesson 2 of my beginning class in Marxism. However, it is quite true that this does not loom as a very important point in your mind when you are functioning as a Communist. Then you are working for immediate aims and you don't really think that the revolution is just around the corner, not if you live in the United States; there aren't enough signs of it. Also, you are told, in relation to force and violence, that the violence, if it comes, will be violence forced upon the people by the capitalists who will resent the will of the majority, who will fight savagely to hang onto the institution of capitalism. If you want not to think, as I wanted not to think, you buy this, until one day you take a long look at how the will of the people operates in Czechoslovakia or in other countries, and you find out that the majority will of the people has nothing to do with it. Actually, it is a question of seizing power for the sake of seizing power. So, as I say, I knew the eventual aims of the Communist Party, but I didn't consider them in a very serious way. This, again, is the question of being a dilettante. I think if Hitler had been a good painter he wouldn't have been an amateur politician.
Mr. TAVENWER. That brings us back again to the importance of the educational phase of this whole problem, doesn't it?
Mrs. RIcHRDS. That is true. sir.
Mr. T\AVNNER. Now, I interrupted you as you were stating that you had a conference with Mr. Sam Moore about the advisability ,of organizing a group of the Communist Party within radio.
Mrs. RICHARDS. That is correct. Now, we had several organizational meetings, At first I think Sam and I met alone at his house. Later a girl named Pauline Hopkins became, in a sense, the secretary of the group. And gradually people were added to this group. Either they were transferred in from other groups, as I had been, or perhaps in some cases they were recruited. But at the beginning there were the three of us. We met, because I had to come clear in from Santa Monica and was very busy, Sunday mornings for a time at Sam's, and later at the house of Pauline Hopkins. I remember Pauline Hopkins' husband, Owen Vinson. However, I do not remember him actually in a meeting. He was baby-sitting downstairs while we met upstairs. I remember in that group an actress named Lynn Whitney. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left the hearing room at this point, 4: 32 p. m.) A man named Hy Alexander, I remember, and a girl named-a woman-I believe she was an actress named Georgia Backus. I also remember other people, but not names. I remember a radio engineer, who attended while I was in the group, perhaps two or three meetings. Oh, yes, there was a man named 3174T--5--pt. 1-12 426 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Charley Glenn. There were two girl writers, u team. I think they wrote-Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not this person, Charley Glenn, acquired another occupation at another time?
Mrs. RICHARDs. As a matter of fact, I have no idea-at that time I don't think his occupation was radio then. I have a feeling-I can't place him in radio at all. If he was in radio I personally don't know what he did. He was married to some woman, I understand, who was a functionary of the party. But that is a name I can't remember, either. As I say, there were two girl writers whom I cannot remember by name, except one, and the first name was Hope. There were some other people who attended, I remember. I remember an actor that him since; attended. I don't know his name. But I have never seen 1 and another radio actress whom I have never seen again. But I was actually in the group a relatively short time, because just about the time I started in I started to work in motion pictures and became a screen writer and not a radio writer, so very shortly, I would say in a matter of 2 or 3 months, I was transferred into a screen writing branch, rather than a radio branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you a member of the screen writers' branch of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I can't tell you exactly how long. The party was by this time in turmoil, and especially the Hollywood section of the party, over the great cultural controversy. While I was still in the radio branch there were endless, endless discussions as to the role of the writer in society, and the party's approach to culture. I remember that Sam Moore and I drew up what we called a minority approach, defending the right of the writer to write, reflecting life as he saw it, rather than to use his writing as a weapon.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me stop you there a moment.
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You say a great deal of discussion occurred within the Communist Party with regard to the role of the writer.
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes. And in relation to culture generally, the arts generally.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what do you mean "in regard to culture and the arts"? Just what was the discussion?
Mrs. RICHARDS. The relation to what function a writer or artist, what function his art should perform. Or for what he should use his art. In other words, the position which finally won-and I am sure this was also, in a sense, part of the international picture, if you see what happened to artists in the Soviet Union, the position which won is that the function of the artist is to use his art as a weapon for progress. If you put it in their words, for the victory of socialism. The minority, who lost, contended that the function of an artist is to reflect the life around him as he sees it, to shape it into a form and to tell truths with his art, the truths that he feels as an individual and not in relation to some past-Mr. TAVENNER. To translate that into practical terms, if that were the radio group, to pledge that that group then would be attempting ' Subsequently the witness added the following: "I omitted the name of Karen Knsel, who at the time was not married, but who, I believed, subsequently married Abe Burrows. I am unable to give further Identification as to her occupation at the time I knew her." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 427 to mold its product in the form that would best suit the Communist Party.
Mrs. RICHARDS. That would mean that I always felt, and Sam Moore and I always felt that the entire discussion was extremely abstract, in regard to radio. I believe very few radio writers are artists. I want to say on the question of trying to slant things for Communist propaganda, it seems to me inevitable, if you were a Communist and you believed what you were doing, that will reflect itself in your work. However, in my personal experience it was impossible to write anything for commercial radio or for motion pictures-this is my personal experience-which did not agree with what was then the popularly held ideas of the times. I was working, for instance, on Cavalcade of America, under the sponsorship of the Du Pont Corp. Believe me, not one word went out over the air nor did I try, because I was interested in writing good radio shows, or as good as I knew how-not one word could go out which the advertising-the man in charge of advertising for the Du Pont Corp. did not agree with in his heart. Of course, in that period there were many-the Communist Party was in agreement with a lot more people. I mean it was using the issues on which the people were agreed much more than the issues it uses today. But I think it is terribly important to separate the issues from the Communist Party. In other words, that if a man-if the Communist Party is antiFascist, it doesn't mean that anti-Fascists are Communists. I think this is A, B, C. I feel this very deeply. We should learn that the Communist Party will, as a matter of fact, join forces with fascism if it serves their purposes. We know about the Nazi-German pact. I remember in Rockland County when the Communist Party was joined with the America First Committee on a platform against lend-lease-I think the America First Committee has also been investigated by the committee-today it has been factually proven former Nazi groups are financed behind the Iron Curtain. I think it is extremely important to separate the issues from the party. While it may have been the aim of the Communist Party to influence the content of radio scripts, very little could be done with which the American people were not largely in agreement with. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder reentered the hearing room at this point, 4: 43 p. m.)
Mr. TAVENNER. After you were transferred to the group of screenwriters, who were the members of the Communist Party in that group that you were associated with ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. One of the members was Ed Chodorov. We met once, I remember, at his home. And Millard Lampell and his wife, whose name I do not remember. A man named Louis Allen and his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occupation of Louis Allen?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Louis Allen, I believe, was a playwright. He was at that time active in the Actors' Lab.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name, please. 428 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mrs. RICHARDS. Allen?
Mr. TAVENNER. Allen. 
Mrs. RICHARDS. I don't know whether it is "en" or "an," A-1-l-e-n or a-n. But he was a playwright and his wife was also a memberGeorge and Tiba Willner. He was an agent. It was a writers' group, largely, but he was an agent. Howard Dimsdale, Ed Rolfe, a writer, and Lee Gold, and a girl, Tamara Hovey.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the first name?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I believe it is T-a-m-a-r-a. I am not sure of that. Tammie, they called her; it is a nickname. There were other members in that group. These were the ones I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any particular activity of that group which would indicate its primary interest?
Mrs. RICHARDS. If "primary interest" was writers and their problems, the cultural controversy continued to rage. I think the famous Albert Maltz article on left-wing criticism was published at about the time that I entered that group, and its retraction was published some 2 or 3 weeks later. I can remember mostly my last meeting with that group, and my last meeting in the Communist Party at which a discussion was led by Louis Alien. The discussion was called the Contribution of Writers in the War. And, as he started to discuss country by country the tremendous roles that writers had played in winning the war, it became apparent that the only writers who had done anything to win the war were Communist writers. As an example, the only writers he mentioned in France, in which nearly every writer was in the underground, were Louis Aragon and his wife, whose name I forget at the moment, a novelist. Then in this country he mentioned Theodore Dreiser and Howard Fast. When he got to Spain, Spain having not so many well-known writers, he mentioned the Spanish poet Lorca, and said Lorca was executed by the Franco forces during the Spanish Civil War, and he said that Lorca was not a Communist when the Fascists killed him, but he was about to become one. So, at the end of the meeting or when the discussion started, I took rather violent exception to their discussion. I said that I thought it was an extremely narrow approach to the question of what writers had done to win the war; that I thought it was presumptuous to assume that Lorca was about to become a Communist, since there was nothing political in any of his writings. He was, as a matter of fact, a lyric poet and dramatist, and most of his plays are about love and not about politics. Then I said, "And if Theodore Dreiser had died 2 years earlier, he wouldn't have made the list." So, this was not received very well, and I never attended a Communist Party meeting after that, although I had one brief contact with the Communist Party after that.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I received a call from a man named Arnold Manoff, who wanted to know why I was not attending party meetings. I said that I had differences with the party. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 429 He said that if they were cultural differences these were going to be ironed out; that this was a sectarian period. I said that by now my differences were also political; that I was no longer a Communist and did not want to be considered one. And that was my last contact with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Approximately when was that?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Again I can only place it by the Maltz article, which I believe was early in the summer of 1946, spring of 1946. And I left soon thereafter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, since that time have you been affiliated with the Communist Party?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Not since that time; no sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you knowingly aided or abetted the Communist Party in any of its projects since that time?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I don't know whether-I believe I signed the petition for the 10 or for the 19 who went to Washington in 1947. I am not certain about that. I may have. I think you have heard over and over that leaving the party is a gradual process. You think your way out, as you didn't think your way in. I was thinking today of what happened to me after that particular night. I started to read the forbidden books of Koestler, all these wicked things. I read with great interest the controversy of Lysenko in the Soviet Union, and I began for the first time to think what I had been in. The two things that stand out the most are the Lysenko-the Soviet bulletin on musicians, somebody showed me the Soviet Embassy bulletin after the musicians, the composers, had been disciplined, and when I read how great composers like Shostakovich would say humilitating things such as, "I have the greatest respect for melody and I will try to use more of it in the future," this did a great deal to wean me away. Then I read in Arthur Koestler a very interesting thing. He said, in Darkness of Noon, "In the life of every Communist there comes a moment when he hears screams." The first screams I heard were outraged intellect. But I since then have been able to see the slave-labor camps, and the 14 million killed in China, or 11 million; the figures vary. So, as I say, it takes a while to get out, but when you finally are out it is a complete change.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am interested in the statement that you made about your reading the forbidden things.
Mrs. RICHARDS. There were a great many books that were forbidden for one reason or another to Communist Party members. Books by Trotskyites, books by enemies of the party, books which are decadent, such as Andreev, Proust. I don't suppose a person would be expelled from the party for reading Proust, but these people are attacked as decadent. Magazines like the Partisan Review, which is a fine literary magazine; it is considered a Trotskyite publication.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, there is a form of book censorship in the Communist Party? 430 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes. As a matter of fact, on the subject of Trotskyism, friendship with a Trotskyite was ground for expulsion throughout my membership in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time gone to a Government agency and informed them of your knowledge of the Communist Party activities ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. Yes, sir; I did. Shortly after the beginning of the Korean war I felt that I wanted to clarify my position; that I did not want to be identified with the death of U. N. soldiers in Korea, or to even share the responsibility in a negative sense; so I went to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and made a statement. It was about 2 weeks after the beginning of the Korean war.
Mr. TAVENNER. And I believe at quite an early date you spoke with investigators of this committee, or one of them ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I believe nearly 3 years ago I met Mr. Wheeler for the first time.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long ago?
Mrs. RICHARDS. At the very beginning of the hearings. I think that was nearly 3 years ago if my memory is correct, or 21/2 anyway.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee whether or not in your opinion there has been any change in attitude on the part of the public, and possibly the employers in this area, with regard to the question of communism within the entertainment field ?
Mrs. RICHARDS. I think there has been a very distinct change in the motion-picture industry. I can't talk about the public. We live in sort of little tracks out here. We go to the studio and we go home; that's about all. But at the beginning of this investigation I think there was a tremendous amount of confusion in Hollywood with relation to them. There is one thing that has cleared up in particular that I feel very good about. One of the things which deters people from making a public announcement of their change in relation to communism, even if they have left the party is that in addition to earning the hatred and contempt of their former friends and associates, they are shunned by a large number of other people who think that once a Communist always a Communist. Now, in the motion-picture industry, while it is very sensitive to public opinion, has in this regard done this-and it is a very courageous thing-and that is they have made it possible for people to announce this change of position without stigma or without being penalized. I think this is due to a number of factors. That the committee itself, the procedures of the committee, in that it has heard evidence and not wild hearsay and gossip, has been very reassuring to the industry. I think there are certain individuals in the industry-some of the first cooperative witnesses had a very rough time. One is a close friend of mine, and I know he had a rough time. But because of certain individuals that I don't know-I understand Mr. Roy Brewer has worked very hard to get the industry to recognize this policy toward people who come before the committee, and as a result, generally speaking, insofar as my knowledge is concerned, the industry is extremely friendly to people who come here and cooperate with the committee. COMVVIUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 431 Of course, another thing which has changed the feeling in town a great deal are the recent Prague trials and the use of anti-Semitism which is involved, and the use of this anti-Semitism for political purposes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I have no further questions.
Mr. JACKSON. Mrs. Richards, may I, on behalf of the committee, thank you for your appearance here today and assure you that we are very happy to have the sum of your testimony added to that already received by the committee. Your intelligence and your understanding of the problems which grow out of your experience are much needed by the forces which are combating human slavery throughout the world today. Your contribution is unique in this fight and will continue to be unique because of the fact that you can draw upon your personal knowledge of these things. I am sure that I express the opinion of all the committee members and of the staff in wishing you well and in thanking you very much for your kind cooperation.
Mrs. RICHARDS. Thank you, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. You are excused. The committee will stand in recess until 10 o'clock tomorrow. (Whereupon, at 5 p. m., the hearing was recessed until 10 a. m., Thursday, March 26, 1953.) INDEX INDIVIDUALS Page - 425 ---------------------Alexander, Hy ----------------------------- 427,428 Allen, Louis----------------------------419 ---------------------------------Amter, Israel -------311 -------------Anderson, Betty ------------------.------428 -----_------------------------------Aragon, Louis ---356 ------------------------------Arno, Peter -------------296 ----------------------------------Arren ..-----425 Backus, Georgia ------------------------------------------------356 -----------------------------Baker, Phil --------------352 Bargeman, Bertha (Mrs. Marvin Bargeman) --------------352 Bargeman, Marvin -------------------------------------339-341 Barzman, Sol ---------------------------------------349 269, 311, -------------------------Bassman, George ----------395 ------------------------------------------Beck, George 418 -------..--------.. ----... Becker 349 -------------------------Bela, Nick -....-----.... 324 --------------------------Belcher, Frank B --350 Bennett, Connie Lee -----------------------------------------350 --------------------------------Bennett, Seymour ------_------------------------- 350,355-361 (testimony) Benoff, Nathan Max 356 --------------------------Benny, Jack----------------------269-271, 289, 293,311,313, 363, 364, 366 Berkeley, Martin -----------------348 b__ ------'Bessie, Alvah 364, 366 275,307, 308, 311,269, 349 ..-----------------------. -Biberman, Henryd..--------------------------------Bibermanort, Herbert 269, 349 Blankfort, Henry ......-------------------------------------------349 ---------Blankfort, Laurie...--------.-------------419 ----------------------Bloor, Mother ..---------49 -------------Blowitz, William--.---------------357 -----Bolger, Ray ------------------------348 Boretz, Allen ----------------------------------- 322,324 Bradbury. Mary -----------------------------------418 ------------------Brandy, Ed __-----------------430 ---------------------------------Brewer. Roy -357 ---------------Brice, Fanny --------325 -Bridges ----------------------------------------311,348 -------------Bright, John---------32-0,351 --------- ------------Brinkarnt, Arthur (Art)------------- 355, 420-423 --------------Browder, Earl .--348, 351 ------------------Buchman, Harold -351, 362-66, 368 ---------------------Buchman, Sidney---301 ------------------------------Georgia Burns, 275 2-------------------Burns, Jessie -426 -------------------.----------------------Burrows, Abe.350 ----------------Burton, Val_ _----34 ---Butler, Hugo ---------------------356,357 Cantor, Eddie ---------------------------289 288, --------------------_---------------Morris Carnovsky, 384,385 ---------------------Casey, Jim ---------------427 289, 269, ---------------------------Edward Chodorov, 350 Clark, Maurice ----------------------------------------------319-326,361-370 ---------------------B...E--Morris Cohn. 343,348,349 -----------------------Cole, Lester -------433 434 INDEX Page Collins, Richard (Dick) .Comingore, Dorothy ---Crawford, Joan ---------Curtiss, Paul Cyril _---- - 343,348,359 ----------.----------.. 350 -------- --..------ ---------414 -------------------------------348 --------------------------------274 ------------------------------------------- 268-292 (testimony) 297, 364 Dare, Danny ...---------418 Davis, Herbert (alias for Herbert Goldfrank) ---------------------357 ---------------.. Davis, Joan -- ------------------------------------------Dimitrov --Dimsdale, Howard---....- 345 349, 428 ----------------------- 363-366 -----------------..------------Dmvtryk, Edward ---393 Douglas, Helen Gahagan ------------------------428 Dreiser, Theodore ---------------------------------422-424 334,354,355, -------------Duclos, Jacques 348 ---------_----------------D'Usseau, Ainaud 319-326 (testimony) ----------------Eastman, Philip Dey -------- Eliscu, Edward 269,273,288,348 _--------- _-- 348 ----------Endfield, Cy-----------------269, 348 Endore, Guy -- __----_------------------398-413 317-319, 371-380, 396, --------Esterman, William B Faragoh, Francis Edward (pen name, Edward Francois) ------------269, 361-370 (testimony) 364, 366 Faragoh, Elizabeth (Mrs. Francis Faragoh) ---------------428 ---------Fast, Howard-----------Fay, William 306 ---------------- ---------------Flanagan, Hallie Fleury, Mrs. Bernyce Polifka -------------------------------------Foreman, Carl -------------------Foreman, Estelle (Mrs. Carl Foreman)---Foster-------------------------------------325 Franco ----------------------------Francois, Edward (pen name for Francis Faragoh) ----Frazier, Leon---------------------------------- Gang, Martin -Gardner, Ed ------ __--------------------- - ---- 303 321-323 339-341 - 339, 340 - 428 369 328 268-292 356, 357 426 Glen, Charley -----------------------------Ghckman, Kelly------------------------------289 Gold, Lee---------------428 Goldfrank; Goldfrank, Herbert (party name, Herbert Davis) --------- 416,418 Goldstone, Charles ---306 ------------ 306 Goldstone, Nat--------------------Gordon, Emily-------------------------------------329, 331 Gordon, Julian ........ __...---327-336 (testimony) Gorney, Jay----------------------------------------273 Grant, Morton------------------------------------------349 Greenberg ------ Grennard, ------------------------ Elliott--- Harris, Jet 418 ------------------------- 350 ----- ---------------... -----...- 391 Hathaway, Clarence --------------------383 Hecht, Harold ------------------------292, 293-317 (testimony) Higgins, Jimmy------ -------------------------------------385 Hoover, President ---------------------_ 328 Hope ---_____-_-----------------. _ 426 Hopkins, Pauline-----------------------____ 425 Hovey, Tamara -----------------------_____428 Huebsch, Edward -..-317-319 (testimony), 349, 371-380 (testimony), 396 Hudson, Roy --------- Hurst, Fannie -James, Dan . Jarrico, Paul --Jerome, V. J... Jones -- --------- --------- - 419 --------.----------------------------------------- Josephson, Leon --Kahn, Gordon .-- _-__-.. 386, 387 _ 348 ___ _---______---------. 343, 348, 359 _-------------------------299-303, 387-390 -------------------------_----------403 --------------------.... --- ----...------------ -- 416 311, 348, 359 435 INDEX Page 314 Kibbee, Roland -----------------------------King .. 393 ---------------------------------- --- Kinsel, Kaien ...-------------- .. Klansky, Max .... Koenig, LesterKoestler, Arthur ----- ----- - 397, 401, 402 349 --------429 ------.-------. ------ ....--- 426 -- ---- ---- ----------- --------------_ _-____----------Kondolf, George 349, _-_----------Lampell, Millard --------------.----------..-----. Lampell, Mrs. Millard . 336-355 (testimony), 356, -----------Lang, David A ------------------------Langerfin, Pauline 348, 349, ---Lardner, Ring, Jr -- ----------------------..------- 275 ---------------------------- Lauber, Pauline -------. . Lawson. John Howard . Lennart, Isobel . 274, 311, 340, 343, 348, 359, 364, 366 350 -------..-----. -- - . --------------. --------Leonard, Charles Lev, Comrade --------------------------.Levitt, Al Levy. Mel .--.-------------------------- --------------------.-- . 340, 341 418 350 311 295 ...------------------------------- Lewis Light, Louise 331 ..-------------.----- ..-- 428 Lorca -.------------------------------ Marshall, Daniel G --.--- 348 ------ ----------- Lubouiski, Milton- Lysenko ..-------....---------Lytton, Herbert Lytton, Bart--Maltz, Albert_Manoff, Arnold ------- 303 427 427 357 350 359 429 390, 413 ---------------------------380, 381-396 (testimony) -----285, 288, 311, 359,392. 428, 429 350, 428 ---------------------- -------------- 371-380 -------------- Martin, Henrietta.---------------------------------------------273, -------------Meyers, Henry ---------------------------------------------Mindlin, Eunice..-----------------------------------Moffitt, Robert A.----------Moore, Sam------------------------------------Morgan, Stephen .--------------------------------------------------Morley Murray, Ken _------------------------Nebenzahl, Seymour ---------- 350 288, 349 350 381-396 424-27 337, 338 ----------------- 273 357 393 349 --North, Joseph -------------------------- 269, 273, 350 -------------Offer, Mortimer ---422 -----------------Olson, Ben-_--. -------- 422, 424 -----------Olson, Dorothy___--------------366 348, Ornitz, Samuel ----------------------------301 -------------Pearson, Rose --------------------------301 Peck, Trudy_------------------------------------------------429' Proust------------------------Purcell, Gertrude __--------------------- -- - 307,308, 310, 311 293, 306, 313 Rantz, Louis ---------------------------------349 Rapf, Maurice --------------------------------------------------311, 312 Reis, Meta (see also Meta Reis Rosenberg)-----------------------(testimony) 413-431 Richards, Silvia------------------------------------356 ------Riggs, Tommy------------------------------------350 L-------------------------------------------------------W. River, 350 Bob ---------------------------------------------------Robert, Bob 350 Robert, Roberts, Marguerite------------------------------------------------- 350 428 Rolfe, Ed ---------------------------------------------------------277-279, 281, 309, 393 ------------------ ---------------Roosevelt - 311,363,364,366 Rosenberg, Meta Reis (see also Meta Reis) ---------Rossen, Robert---------------------------------------- 269, 348, 357, 361 329 Rosser, Lou_---------------------------------------------------Rousseau, Louise ___--------- -------------- ---------- 307, 311, 338, 344, Ruthven, Madelaine ------------------------------Salt, Waldo --------------------------------------------321, -------------. _-----------------------Schlesinger, Leon --------Sehneiderman, William ----------------------------- 350 346 349 323 349 INDEX 436 Page - Schoen, Max 331 _------------------------------ Schulberg, Budd ..-------------.-------------348, 364, -----------------------------. _ Scott, Adrian ...-------------------------------Shapiro, Victor --------------------------__-----------Shore, Wilma ----Shostakovich -..------------------__------------------------------- ----Siegel, Sylvia __------------------------------------------Silver, Max 269, 289, Sklar, George..-----------.------------------------Sloan, Robert _-------------------------____-----------Smith, Walter__ Solomon, Joe ----- __ Solomon, Lou ------------------------------ ______ - - - - - - - - - 311 366 350 350 429 296 329 350 301 397 347 340, 341 - - 311 396-413 (testimony) 396, 403, 408, 409 Sondergaard, Gale ---------------------------------------Springer, Joseph -------------------------Springer, Preva (Mrs. Joseph Springer) ----Stanford, John 9---350 Taffel, Bess -Tarloff, Frank Thomas, Norman ----- -------------------------------__--------------------__ __ ------------- _- 269,350 350 384 Torg ---------------- 418 Townsend, Pauline--------------------------------Trabusis, Paul -----------Tree, Dorothy Trvers, Paul--------- ------- 381 343 -------------- Truman, President -----------------------------------Trumbo, Dalton------------------------------- Tuttle, Frank 364, 366 349 292 343, 348, 359 -- -------- --------------------------- 275, 307, 311, 314 Tuttle, Tanya--------------275, Uris, Michael ----------------------------350, 364, Vidaver, Matt.. ---------------------------420, 421, Vinson, Owen -------------------------------- 287 366 424 425 Wallace, Henry------------------- 394 Wanger, Wqlter ------ Wexley, John -- --------- 414 ------------- White, Irving J Whitney, Lynn-Wilby, Celia -- ----------- Wilkie -------------------------------------- Williams, Edward Bennet--------Willner, George ------------Willner, Tlba (Mrs. George Willner) Wilson, Michael Winter, Ella Tankwich, Judge 279 ----------- ------- --- Winchell, Walter -- 293-317, 355-361 312-314, 350. 428 428 ------- 339 ----------------- 356 -------------------- Julian..--__ ___________ 349 379 ------ Yates, Oleta O'Connor ---------------------Young, Bill ------------___-__ ---------Youn. Iollie (Mrs. Bill Young)__------Zimet, 350 ---------------269, 273-"77,.285-287, 289, 364 -----------------------------425 --------------------------------- 422, 424 ------ 349 420, 424 420, 424 _- ______--__ ----- -- _- 350 ORGANIZATIONS Actors' Laboratory_--------_ American Federation of Labor 285, 286. 287, 288, 427 ---. --------... _ __- America First Committee . . . ------------ _-_American Labor Party __-----_ . -- ----------American Legion-----------------------------Anti-Nazi League _---___-___--______ -______Army Relief. --Bank of America -___ -------------------... ... ----------------------_ _ -- 375 427 419 284 273, 284 _ - Bank for International Settlements ---________________ Bay City Club of the Communist Party -------_-_________________ Berlitz School of Languages ..------..----- _-----_ _-3_____ Bernhardt-Vidor Productions--------------------------------Big Brothers of America --- ___ --____ ___-__ --- ____ _-- 292 409 328 420 329 414 292 INDEX 461 Page 419 ------_____ -----------------British War Relief 328 ______..----____---------------_ SBumnn________ 287 Califoinia Committee on Un-American Activities -------------328 ____------------------Cambridge University --396, 399, 400, 403, 404, 409 Camp Tenaya -_____---------------328 --------------Chamber of Commerce of Los Angeles 393 China War Relief________--------------Congress of Industrial Organizations -_-_ .--------------294, 375 College of the City of New York 362 Colorado College __ __---------413 Columbia Pictures . __ _ 414 Columbia University ---__--_362 Crusade for Freedom ________------------- 272, 284, 285 Cub Scout______ 292 271 Department of Justice _______----------DeWitt Clinton High School___ _----------336 DuPont Corp ------____ _ _-_-427 Federal Bureau of Investigation_____ ----------430 Federal District Court of Washington, D. C -------318 Federal Theater--293. 296-299, 301-306, 310, 316 Harvard University ------__---328 Hollywood Canteen _ -----___ ----_ 292 Hollywood- Communist Club---------330, 332, 333 Hollywood Democratic Committee--------------- ----------273 Hollywood Democratic League----------284 Hollywood Democratic Party -----------360 Hollywood Theater Alliance----26), 273, 275, 276, 282, 284, 285, 287-289, 292 Hollywood Victory Caiiavau ----------292 Italian Embassy ---385 Jewish League Against Communism ---------284 Juarez Division of the Commumst Paity ------401 Leon Schlesinger Studios ----------321 Lincoln Bookstore ----------------------------348 Los Angeles Bar Association 324 415 May Day Parade-------Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer --------336, 337, 341 Motion Picture Democratic Committee---------392, 393 Nat Goldstone Agency-------------293, 306, 311-313 National Academy of Design ----------------320 Navy Relief -----------------292. 393 Nazi-Soviet Pact --------------------- 277, 308, 309, 427 New Theater League------------388, 390 Northwestern University ----------381 Paramount Pictures -------------312, 340-342, 357 Parent-Teacher Association -------------------292 Radio Writers' Guild ------------------392 292, 393 ----------------------Red Cross-----------------RKO --------------------------------357, 391 393, 419 ---------------------Russian War Relief --------337 --------------------------Screen Gents, Inc Securities and Exchange Commission ------103 385 Seventh World Congress of the Communist Party_-------------352, 353 ------Screen Writers' Guild ----------381 ------------------Staunton Military Academy 374, 375 Supreme Court of the United States------------------------------328 The Technicolor Motion Picture Co-----------------------Theater Alliance -_ _. ..--.--------------------285 293 ----------------------------Theater Guild ------------------------416 Time, Inc ------Thomas Jefferson Book Store---------------------------420 Twentieth Century-Fox ----------------357, 414 ------293, 312-314, 321, 374 United States Army -----United States Navy ----.----------------357, 381 USO ----.--------------------393 Universal ------------------------------------------------393 Universal-International -----_--------______ __--------411 INDEX University of Virginia Variety Clubs of America Walt Disney Studios ---... -------- ----...---------- Warner Bros ------ Warner Bros. Cartoons -----Westminster College ----------- _---_---Workers' Alliance --- _ -------------Workers' School, New York -------Works Progress Administration ..--- _---__-----World Bank ------ -- - ----.-- World's Fair Corp -- _____ Ballyhoo ___-------_ Page ---------381, 383 292 321, 323 _-- ---------357. 414 -------------321,323 -----_- ---_ 381 ---------_ 295, 296 ------384, 385 .-------------295, 297, 299 ----- 328 415 PUBLICATIONS ----------- ------ 356 407 -------------B'nai B'rith Messenger 381, 392 Country Press -----------------------------375 Daily] News - ----------------------------Daily Worker ------------------294,295, 299,366,375, 383, 384, 389, 407, 417 407 La Opinion--------------422 L'Humanit--------------Los Angeles Examiner -------------------328, 40 407 Los Angeles Herald ---------------------------Los Angeles Times ----------------------------- 328, 407 -------349, 389 New Masses.-New Theater Magazine ----------390 Partisan Review -------------429 07 People's World ------------415, 41b Soviet Russia Today----------------417 Sunday Worker ------------Valley Jewish News -------------------------------407 0 