Mr. ROBERTS. I have had the advice of counsel, but I don't think I will need him.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name, please, sir ?
Mr. ROBERTS. Stanley Roberts.
Mr. TAVEXX-ER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. ROBERTS. New York City, 1916.
Mr. TAVE.NER. Ai e you here pursuant to a subpena ?
Mr. ROBERTS. No; I am not. There was no subpena issued of any kind. I read the chairman's offer in terms of this committee's asking people who had been Communists to come up and clear the facts. That is why I am here today. I would like to clear them up once and for all.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have been a member of the Communist Party in the past ?
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes; I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before we discuss that, what is your profession ?
Mr. ROBERTS. I am a motion-picture writer, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been a motion-picture writer?
Mr. ROBERTS. I have been a motion-picture writer since 1936, for a little over 13 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What studios have you worked for ?
Mr. ROBERTS. I worked for most of the major studios in the business. I worked for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. I worked for Columbia, Universal, and I have to admit I even worked for Monogram. I worked for possibly all of the major studios with the exception of Fox and Paramount.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you become a member of the Communist Party? 3530 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ROBERTS. It is very easily fixed in my mind because it is shortly after Roosevelt's death. I would say somewhere toward the end of April or the beginning of May in 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, the circumstances under which you became a member and what led up to it ?
Mr. ROBERTS. I think the only thing to do is to begin at the beginning. I have listened to Miss Lennart testify and I also listened to Odets this morning. The feeling I have is that it is very difficult for us to understand, but communism in Hollywood, as I have seen it and I am sure as Miss Lennart has seen it, is on a purely local level. It doesn't seem to go anywhere. It is true they have used names; they have used money; they have used everything. But, to the average screen writer or an actor in Hollywood, it all seemed to be part of Hollywood and no more. I arrived in Hollywood, as I said, in 1936. What Miss Lennart seemed to get at was that the only people who seemed to be friendly were the Communists. They had a reason, a strong reason. They were completely accessible. It wasn't the idea of a better life for the country or even the State or the city. It was the idea of finding somebody who could be pleasant and find a place to go. The Communists were out there in full force, with names, with people of real prestige and position, when they shook your hand, and that was the beginning of it. As early as 1938, I used to go to a book store called the Book of the Day Shop.
Mr. TAVENNER. Don't lower your voice, just slow up.
Mr. ROBERTS. I went to a book store called the Book of the Day Shop. There I met Arnaud D'Usseau and his wife Susan D'Usseau. We became friendly, and as early as 1938 they asked me to join the party. I was rather surprised that this was the price of hospitality. I refused the invitation. This thing was repeated over and over again during a 9-year period from about 1938 to about 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you mean by the same individuals or by different people ?
Mr. ROBERTS. No, not by the same individuals. In 1941 or 1942, I had adjoining offices to Lees and Rinaldo, Robert Lees and Frederick Rinaldo. I was invited to Mr. Lees' home for dinner. It seemed to be a fine dinner, and the minute dinner was over I was asked if I would care to join the party again. This was a constantly repeated thing. As late as 1943 or 1944 I was invited with a group of die-hards to an open meeting at the home of Ben Barzman, who was a screen writer, to explain what my objections to the Communist Party were. John Howard Lawson was there, and answering most of the questions. I complained about the American Peace Mobilization becoming the American People's Mobilization overnight. I complained about their explanations on Finland. I found great fault with the Russo-Hitler pact, and in all three cases they immediately admitted "We were wrong, but everybody makes mistakes." The answer still wasn't good enough, and it wasn't until 1945, after the death of Franklin Roosevelt, that a very, very close friend of mine said that this was the death of liberalism in America, and that he had been questioned or had been asked to join the party repeatedly and that he would join if I would. His name was Bernard C. Schoenfeld.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell it, please. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3531 
Mr. ROBERTS. S-c-h-o-e-n-f-e-l-d. He had worked in Government radio for about 5 or 6 years, and somehow in my eyes this made him a political pundit. I don't know why. I had great objections to this party. I said I would not be interested for a moment in joining a party which was dedicated to the overthrow of the Government. I was told that I was very foolish, that the party was definitely determined to work for gradual change, nothing else. In fact it was not even a party, it was an association. And that it would work within the framework of the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. Delegates were sent to me about 2 or 3 weeks afterwards, and I am sorry but the only name that I can remember, I think there were two or three men, was Edward Huebsch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell the last name. 
Mr. ROBERTS. H-u-e-b-s-c-h. And they explained that I was living in the dark ages, that the party was merely interested in the things that I was interested in, better conditions in the Screen Writers' Guild, better labor conditions in Hollywood, higher wages, and so forth, and in furthering Roosevelt's policies. The answer is I was sold a bill of goods and I accepted it. I was not drugged and I was not looking for girls or the other routines that have gone on here. I accepted in good faith what I was told. The upshot of it was that I was taken to a meeting. I am not quite sure of the house, but I feel it was probably the house of Paul Trivers, who was a writer, and the meeting was completely open. There was no security; there was no secrecy of any kind. This would be sometime in May. Due to illness, unfortunately, I attended no more than two or three meetings. I was quite vague in terms of what was going on, because I was becoming terribly ill, and it all seemed to me a grand waste of time. In any case, this is the first phase of whatever political activity there is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you return at that time to New York, or to the East ?
Mr. ROBERTS. I returned to New York City, Mr. Tavenner, some- time, I believe, in July or August, and I remained in New-York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of what year?
Mr. ROBERTS. 1945. (Representative Harold H. Velde returned to the room at this point.)
Mr. ROBERTS. I remained in New York until October. Upon my return in October, on doctor's orders, I took a leave of absence. Actually, I wanted to quit, and they suggested a year's leave of absence would be much better, and that there was no rush as long as I was not well.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us go back a moment to the first group to which you were assigned when you joined the party, which was prior also to your return to New York. You said you met at the home of Paul Trivers?
Mr. ROBERTS. That is right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the other members of that group?
Mr. ROBERTS. This one group I am not sure of because it was so big. I knew very few people. I know that Mr. Lawson was there; I know that Mr. and Mrs. Trivers were there, and I also think that the Butlers were there. As for the rest of them, I can't be sure of the one really big meeting. 3532 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. When you speak of "the Butlers," to whom do you refer?
Mr. ROBERTS. Hugo Butler, who was a writer, and his wife Jean Butler, who was also a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Mr. Schoenfeld there?
Mr. ROBERTS. Oh yes, indeed. Mr. Schoenfeld was there; yes. He escorted me proudly into the group.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that?
Mr. ROBERTS. He escorted me proudly into the group. I was the catch.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain out of active attendance in the Communist Party when you left in July or August of 1946?
Mr. ROBERTS. I can't place-1945, Mr. Tavenner-in terms of dates, but it is very simple to pick up. Somewhere in the middle of 1946, when the CSU strike became very hot, the party sent somebody to see me, and I again think it was Ed Huebsch, and the basis of my coming back, and they wanted me to come back because the CSU fight they felt required everybody. They sold a bill of goods on the basis of this being the fight for the only honest unions in all of Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to CSU?
Mr. ROBERTS: This is the Conference of Studio Unions which I believe was run by Mr. Herbert Sorrell, and it was a series of minor independent guilds. There was no party speech at all; it was merely if Hollywood was to survive we had to have honest unions and all that the party cared about was protecting these unions. So it is at this point that I returned, I would say, somewhere around the middle of 1946, and I was assigned to a group in the Bronson area. Everybody at whose houses we met seemed to live somewhere around Bronson, either up the hill or down the hill, but within an area of a couple of miles. It was actually out of the neighborhood in which I lived.
Mr. TAVENNEB. Who were those who were members of that group ?
Mr. ROBERTS. In the group that I belonged to were Herbert Biberman, who was a director; Michael Uris, who was a writer and a story editor; Mrs. Michael Uris, who was Dorothy Tree, the actress: Mr. and Mrs. Edward Biberman. Mrs. Biberman was Sonja Dahl-I believe that is the name she used professionally-and Edward Biberman was a painter. Hugo and Mrs. Butler, John Berry, the director; Mr. Schoenfeld; a writer named Irwin Lieberman; Carl Foreman, who was a screen writer and who dropped out a few weeks after I came back due to the pressure of work; and a man named Alex Greenberg. Now, I don't know what he did, or what his profession was, but he was the organizational secretary. He seemed to come in with the agendas and everything connected with procedures. The group then, I understand, was very much smaller than they were during the days of the CPA, and this would be probably the whole group.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned Edward Huebsch as a member of the first group. Was he a member of the second group also?
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes; and I believe Mrs. Huebsch was too.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her first name?
Mr. ROBERTS. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether Paul Trivers, who was a member of the first group, was likewise a member of the second group COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3533 
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes; definitely was, and so was Mrs. Trivers.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you a member of this second group ?
Mr. ROBERTS. I was a member of this second group for probably 2 or 3 months, and I complained very bitterly that if they wanted me back in terms of fighting or working in the guild, I certainly was accomplishing nothing with this group. The meetings were a pure farce. The prime purpose of these meetings was to discuss the role of the cultural worker. This is a strange phrase which is used in Communist Party circles to define what you do with Hollywood people. They must remain anonymous. They will not do door-todoor work. They have no real function at all except to give money and to use their names as far as prestige is concerned to front causes, not as far as the Communist Party as such; and, therefore, there would be endless wrangling as to how these people could actually function. There was another meeting, strangely enough, in terms of how to give the women more to do. I was the only bachelor in the group, and I suggested asking the women. I was completely ruled down, After bitter complaint I was transferred to a writers' fraction to deal primarily with guild problems, which is why I was supposedly asked to come back. This was a group consisting for the most part of writers, a few actors, and a few directors, who dealt with screen writers' guild problems, and the labor problems of Hollywood. The big reason that they insisted that the party be the important wheel here was that no one could serve as a liaison between the three guilds except the Communist Party. Otherwise, the actors would never speak to the director; the directors would never speak to the writers. These meetings, all of them, were held about every 2 weeks at the home of Mr. Abraham Polonsky. Mr. Polonsky was a writer and a director and I actually feel the successor to Mr. Lawson in the Hollywood picture. If Mr. Lawson appeared, it was always as an elder statesman, not as an active force. If you like, I can discuss several of the issues that were discussed within this writers' group.
Mr. TAVENNER. We would be very glad for you to do so.
Mr. ROBERTS. First of all, the Screen Writers Magazine, which was originally designed to do a public-relations job for all writers, was to make newspaper critics aware of the function of the writing of motion pictures. The Communist Party took another track entirely. They saw it as a house organ, as a means of exploiting their particular ideas. Now, a great deal of the magazine was very good and was merely about honest screen writing. But the Communists did not want to lose control of this, and fought very hard to prevent the magazine from going out of existence, and they lost it; and I think rightly so. The second thing involved, or the most important thing, was the question of the CSU. There were constant reports on the Conference of Studio Unions. They seemed to get nowhere, absolutely nowhere, with trying to do what they wanted to do, and at this point various actors and directors came into the picture, since they, too, were dealing with Sorrell. Now, if you would like the names of the writers in this group, we had Lester Cole. Dalton Trumbo, John Howard Lawson, Gordon Kahn, Edward Huebsch, Hugo Butler, and Richard Collins. 3534 coMMUNisM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Representing the actors who came to discuss this were Karen Morley and Lloyd Gough; and for the directors, John Berry and Bernard Vorhaus. 
Mr. TANENNER. Was the last-named person known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ROBERTS. Was Bernard Vorhaus? Yes. No one was at these meetings who was not a member of the Communist Party. That is something I am quite sure of. In addition to this, everybody in this group was a professional of some sort; was connected with the motionpicture business. The only non-motion-picture businessman who attended was a man named John Stapp. I was very curious about what he did, and I was told that he was in charge of party labor organizing. That is all I know about Mr. Stapp. But he is the only nonprofessional ever to attend these meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you subsequently learn that he was a function- ary of the Communist Party?
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes; I learned that a good deal later. I was extremely curious as to whether he was. The only thing is that he was the only new face I saw in terms of people I did not know in the industry. I would like to say, too, that, even with this group here, the results were completely ineffectual; they accomplished nothing. The Screen Writers went out of existence, as it should have. The CSU, nothing happened as far as protecting Mr. Sorrell was concerned. The CSU was finished, and the Communists certainly helped drive nails into that. Another project was the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before you come to that, what activity did John Stapp engage in in connection with these meetings?
Mr. ROBERTS. He only arrived once; he was only at one meeting, and it is as if it were a pep talk to the group, to stress the importance of why the Sorrell unions must survive. That was all. I mean, there was no procedure suggested, and I was never in on any negotiations, nor did I meet Mr. Sorrell or anything in that regard.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, if you will, proceed to the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. ROBERTS. They also seemed very interested in protecting the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. M'y knowledge of this organization was that it was originally founded by the Screen Writers' Guild, in conjunction with a great many other guilds, to further the war effort against Germany. It was used to channel material to actors for warbond drives, to do everything possible to promote the war. As the war began to finish, the Communists saw a wonderful chance to use it, and it is at this point that they stepped in and used the organization for a totally different function. They were determined to keep the Hollywood Quarterly alive, and to use this as a front for their activities. Again, the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization was defeated. This is the only example I know of where they did not originate the organization, where they picked up an existing organization and used it for their own purposes.
Mr. TAVENNER. From your knowledge of the operation of the Holly- wood Writers' Mobilization, do you consider that the Communists gained control of it ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3535 
Mr. ROBERTS. I think they did, definitely. I mean I don't think there is a question of my thinking so; I am sure they did. At the period that the panels were conducted about wartime activities, they did not have control of the organization, it was a guild enterprise.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was testified to at some length by Richard Collins, I believe, in his testimony before this committee, or possibly
Mr. Dmytryk.
Mr. ROBERTS. I don't know that, sir. Now, in relation to the results, as to the work of this writers' group, there were constant speeches made on the floor of the guild in terms of the CSU, of the Conference of Studio Unions' fight. The guild membership began to become more and more against the left faction which were determined to support Mr. Sorrell, and the guild under the leadership of Emmett Lavery, began to beat the Communists to a standstill. It is at this point that I began to object very, very strongly to the tactics that were used.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean the tactics used by the Communist Party ?
Mr. ROBERTS. By the Communist Party, very definitely. And beginning in 1947, the all guild committee was formed to defeat these Communist tactics, and I should say I think rightly so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the Communist Party endeavor to use you in any particular way in connection with that fight in the Screen Writers' Guild .
Mr. ROBERTS. Very definitely attempted to use me. I was a very good friend of Sheridan Gibney's, who had been a president of the guild for some two terms, and who was an anti-Communist. The party sent me, and I believe Mr. Huebsch to speak to Mr. Gibney and ask him to condemn the all-guild slate. Mr. Gibney said that he was running as an independent, and refused to condemn the right of any group in the guild to form whatever slate they pleased, and particularly an anti-Communist slate. The result of this was that the party became furious with Mr. Gibney and a series of slanders and lies began to be circulated by members of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why were you selected to go to Gibney?
Mr. ROBERTS. Because of my personal friendship with Gibney over a period of about 8 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. So the Communist Party, of which you were then a memberMr. ROBERTS. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Endeavored to get you to exploit your personal friendship with Mr. Gibney to influence his action in this matter?
Mr. ROBERTS. That is right. Then Mr. Gibney was elected president of the guild, and it was at this point that the Hugo Butler resolution came into being, in which the guild was asked to support the Hollywood Ten, I believe, against the committee; that the guild was asked to throw its legal resources behind the 10 to fight the case for them. This was voted down by the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did the movement have its origin?
Mr. ROBERTS. In the Communist Party. There is no question about that. What happened here was that I attempted to speak very loudly against the Butler resolution, because of its effect on the guild. I began to see the guild take a tremendous beating and nobody in the party would stop. 3536 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY I fought against the Butler resolution and then, in a very stupid piece of party discipline, voted for it on the floor of the guild. It was resoundingly defeated. This was not going to stop the party from pursuing the fight further. I had an argument with Mr. Polonsky about this point and said that the continuation of these tactics could only wreck the Screen Writers' Guild. It was then that Polonsky came out openly with the statement that if we wrecked the Screen Writers' Guild we will build another one. "If need be, we will wreck 20 to achieve what we want." It was then I shook his hand and said: "This is not for me."
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it adopted a policy of rule or ruin?
Mr. ROBERTS. That is right, and rule on their own terms, and so on. I joined the party because I felt this was the only way to function inside the guild itself, only to discover that all they were interested in doing was to destroy the guild if it didn't happen to suit their purposes. That would conclude my status with the party as of the very beginning of 1948. I served on the Screen Writers' Guild bargaining committee during this year, and about 4 or 5 months later Hugo Butler came to me and said, where was I and why hadn't I attended meetings, and so forth, and I explained that I was through, flatly, and this much he should have known before. There is only one other piece of applicable activity in all this period which I think is an interesting sideline. In 1948, through some friends of mine who were not Communists in any way, I was again asked to work with an organization called Field Theater. They were going to put on a group of shows for Henry Wallace. I helped write material for these shows, and it wasn't long before I saw the same faces turn up all over again. Karen Morley came there to run things, and I became very angry with that. The Wallace campaign was being run by Communists. I threatened to pull out, and what is more, agreed to finance the show myself. The next thing I knew is that ASP turned out to be the parent organization of Field Theater, showed up and became highly supplicating and said we would run this whole thing without any interference. Mr. Wallace played several appearances in Los Angeles, made the mistake of speaking off the record, and I voted for Truman. The Field Theater is only one of any number of front organizations that are like Topsy. They spring up every 2 minutes under new names, and you will suddenly see new faces. This is the entire political picture, and from that point on there has been nothing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any contact with the officials of the ASPC?
Mr. ROBERTS. The only official of ASPC I ever met was a woman named Mrs. George Pepper, who I believe at this time was Mrs. George Pepper. I don't believe I know who tihe officials were.
Mr. TAvENNER. Was there any particular importance of that discussion to the matter under investigation here?
Mr. R OB ERTS. In terms of the investigation here? No, nothing related to the investigation at all. It was merelyMr. TAVENNER. I mean anything relating to the subject of communism or having any earning on it, which we would be interested in in the course of this investigation? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3537 
Mr. ROBERTS. No. ASP has been careful to avoid any such thing. The whole purpose of a front organization is not to mention words like communism. It would scare people away. They would not deal with it. I know what you have there, Mr. Tavenner, if I may bring it up I would like very much to do it. I feel ASP represents a tremendous danger at this particular point. A few months ago they circulated a booklet called, The Truth About Korea, which couldn't have been written better by the Russians. It was sent practically to the entire mailing list of the guild, and it begins with the simple idea that we attack north Korea. You can take it from there. I think that the committee should study this pamphlet and I don't think there is any question to say that the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council today is a mouthpiece of the Communist party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine the booklet before you and state whether it is the same which you received and others, in Los Angeles, which you and others in Los Angeles received ?
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer it in evidence and ask that it be marked Roberts' exhibit No. 1.
Mr. WOOD. Let it be admitted. (The pamphlet referred to was marked "Roberts' Exhibit No. 1" and made a part of the record.)
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Roberts, do you know who sent you that ?
Mr. ROBERTS. No; they were sent in brown envelopes. There is no author on this, no author credit. Nobody seemed to want it, and I don't blame him. All it had on it was ASP, and Cross Roads of the World.
Mr. VELDE. What did you say the address was
Mr. ROBERTS. Cross Roads of the World, which is on Sunset Boulevard.
Mr. WOOD. That is where the ASP has their headquarters?
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes, that is where they have their offices. There was no card of any kind. It was sent to a blanket list. Probably 1,500 or more sent out.
Mr. VELDE. And there was no return address on it ?
Mr. ROBERTS. There was a return address, Mr. Velde. The address was the ASP offices in Hollywood. That was on the envelope. It is also on the back, if I believe correctly, it is on the back cover too, because this is published by the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council.
Mr. TAVENINER. Yes, there appears on the back sheet, Southern California Chapter of the National Council, Arts, Sciences, and Professions, 1586 Cross Roads of the World, Hollywood 28, Calif.
Mr. WALTER. I think you should bring the officials of that organization in and find out some things about the pamphlet.
Mr. TAVENNER. Due to the lateness of the hour, we will not attempt to discuss the pamphlet now, other than to permit you to make any additional references to it that you desire to make.
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. Tavenner, I am no more an authority on this pamphlet than anybody who read it in Hollywood. I have no connection with it except that I received it in the mail. The sense of shock and revulsion that this could be sent out in these times is startling, and it is very wide spread. Friends of mine were absolutely shocked by it. 21546-52-pt 8-1 3538 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. Odets this morning discussed the question of front organizations, and how it is very difficult picking the tune. I feel that it is up to this committee to expose the core of these organizations, and I think that the minute this happens, the people who are duped or fooled will be able to pick out, as Mr. Odets puts it, the right tune. I know that it is not the idea of this committee to destroy liberal thought. On the other hand, it is not the purpose to further communism, which most of these organizations do.
Mr. WALTER. In other words, it is not only important to hear the right tune, but it is of importance to know who is playing.
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes. You have to know the man who is the band leader; I would say. In finishing this, I am not going to slash my wrists, as seems to be the behavior in many cases. I made a great mistake. My knowledge of communism was purely on a local level. I should have asked questions, but I didn't. The first time I understood the Duclos letter was when Sidney Buchman testified on television, and then I began to understand what it meant. My disillusionment was on the basis of local level entirely, that these people will stoop to anything to justify any ends, and I can only guess from here what the international level might be.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I understand that your severance with the Communist Party has been full and complete?
Mr. ROBERTS. Absolutely complete. I am very proud of the fact that after 1948 I could not be fooled. I did not sign the amicus curiae petition! I wouldn't go near it. I did not sign the Albert Maltz nominating petition. The minute that these things began to circulate, the question was, The idea may be fine, but who is doing it? Usually when you see a petition you can guess pretty well where it comes from.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you advised any Government agency of your activities in the Communist Party other than the Committee on UnAmerican Activities?
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes; I gave the FBI pretty much the same information in January of 1951. Or should I spell it out, Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Roberts, during the time you were a member of the Communist Party, did you have an impression or idea that the policies of the American Communist Party were being directed by the Comintern in Soviet Russia?
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. Velde, in all honesty, my activity was so specialized that it would be impossible for me to know this. I did not attend, as most people in Hollywood, any lecture sessions. I have no knowledge of Marxism or a very small knowledge of it; and I never attended discussion groups at all. Most of us were bored with that.
Mr. VELDE. Do you think that same is true of the average member of your particular group ? 
Mr. ROBERTS. I would say, in the case of most of the people I know, yes, they have absolutely no knowledge of what they were doing. It was a place to discuss labor conditions, of working conditions in Hollywood, and as I said originally, it was the way of meeting people at the beginning. It seems a strange way to find a sociable club, but this is pretty much the truth. I had never heard any discussion at all on an international level about a conspiracy or anything. Had I heard that I would have been out in 2 years. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 3539 
Mr. VELDE. Did the Communist Party or any member thereof assist you in any way in obtaining employment or aiding you in your work ?
Mr. ROBERTS. I don't think they were ever in a position to do that. I don't know of any such case, not only apart from myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any personal opportunity to observe the use that the Communists made of front organizations, generally?
Mr. ROBERTS. Well, the procedure is very much the same, I would say. The idea is either to start on a neighborhood level or an artistic level. If you can find five writers who have a cause, to send in two or three Communists would be the first thing, rally them in terms of the cause. I will try and think of one. I am sure there are many. Let us say the question of credits throughout the guild, or a question of writers' working conditions, or anything of this kind. They will form writers who are interested in the question of writers' credits generally, no more; but this now constitutes a nucleus from which to draw membership to the Communist Party. It constitutes a chance to accumulate funds, because where this money goes nobody ever seems to know. And it also doesn't prevent them from changing, well, the American Peace Mobilization to the American People's Mobilization. They have changed the name many times on many organizations. The organization could be started with one reason and finish with an entirely different reason for being if it suited the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. I omitted to ask you about the payment of dues. 
Mr. ROBERTS. Since I wasn't working during the time I was a member, or a great deal of it, all I ever paid was 10 cents a week, no more, no less.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a member of the League of American Writers? 
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes, I was, Mr. Tavenner. This is all the way back in 1938 or 1939. I am sorry I omitted this detail. I was asked to join the board of the League of American Writers to promote cultural relations between writers of all nations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who invited you to join the organization?
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. and Mrs. D'Usseau. I served on the board and didn't understand what they were getting at. I attended possibly one or two meetings, including one at the Pig and Whistle Restaurant, which is an open restaurant, in the main room, and at the end of a few meetings I quit the league entirely. But it is on this basis that
Mr. Rinaldo felt that I was right in terms of joining the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then that is a direct example, in your own case, of the use of Communist-front organizations to recruit members?
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes. I am sorry I didn't see the first implications of what I said.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you given the committee the benefit of all of the information you have relating to Communist Party membership of persons in the entertainment field?
Mr. ROBERTS. To the best of my ability, to the best of my recollection; yes sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you any other information you would like to add or give to the committee? 
Mr. ROBERTS. Yes. I would like to suggest two things, if I may, and I may be very presumptuous to do this. I would like to see the Conmmunist Party outlawed. I would like to see it made completely illegal 3540 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY in language almost that simple. I think in the meantime, before such legislation can be prepared adequately-by the way, one of the things that I never understood is that such legislation would cause the party to go underground. The party seems to be so far underground now that I don't see what difference the legislation would make. Where they are, I don't know. The second suggestion I might make would be to check very closely the cores of all Communist-front organizations, and I think if this is done it will be a great protection to people who have been fooled repeatedly, I may add, not just once.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, that is the contribution this committee can make by way of disclosure of the activity of these people in front organizations?
Mr. ROBERTS. I think they would lose their membership. I believed
Mr. Odets this morning when lie said he did not know what the real make-up of ASP' is. Three-quarters of the membership hasn't the faintest idea of who is the one behind it, who makes up the pamphlets that are sent out of this type.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. I desire to express to you, Mr. Roberts, our appreciation for you coming in here, and the information you have given us, and also for the suggestions which you made to this committee. This committee, for the time since I have been a member of it, has given some rather close study to the question of outlawing the Communimst Party, as such, and we have also spent a great deal of time, as vou say, to find out the hard core of these various Communist fronts. We thank you for the valuable consideration you have made to our efforts, and you are entitled to our sincere thanks, and I extend it to you on behalf of the committee.
Mr. ROBERTS. Thank you, very much.
Mr. WOOD. With that, you may be excused from further appearance. The committee will stand in recess until 10:30 in the morning. (Whereupon, at 4 p. m., Tuesday, May 20, 1952, the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at 10: 30 a. m., Wednesday, May 21, 1952.) a Southern California hchapter of the National Council of the Arts Science and Profeo a sons. known more fasi rly as the Hoi'sswood Arts, Sciences and Profeaon, Council or the ASP COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF THE HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 8 WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 1952 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMITarEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, tVashington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING A subcommittee on the Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to recess, at 11 a. m., in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood, chairman, presiding. Committee members present: Representative John S. Wood and Francis E. Walter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; John W. Carrington, clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, research director; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will come to order. Let the record show that for the purpose of the hearing I as chairman have set up a subcommittee consisting of Mr. Walter and myself. Who do you have ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Miss Lillian Hellman.
Mr. WOOD. Will you raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear the evidence you will give to this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Miss HELLMAN. I do. TESTIMONY OF MISS LILLIAN HELLMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HER COUNSEL, JOSEPH L. RAUH, JR. 