Mrs. POLLOCK. Anne Pollock.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted you are accompanied by counsel. Will counsel please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. SCHOICHET. My name is Nathan L. Schoichet, S-c-h-o-i-c-h-e-t. I am an attorney practicing here in Los Angeles, and my office is in Beverly Hills.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a native of California, Mrs. Pollock?
Mrs. POLLOCK. NO.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you born?
Mrs. POLLOCK. I was born in Russia.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you come to this country ?
Mrs. POLLOCK. In 1906.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a naturalized American citizen?
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am a derivative citizen of my father.
Mr.TAVENNER. When was he naturalized ?
Mrs. POLLOCK. In 1922.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Yes, I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Los Angeles?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Since early 1932.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession or occupation, please? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am west coast director of the American Technical Society Technoin.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Pollock, we have been engaged in an investigation of Communist Party activities in the area of Los Angeles. Sworn testimony has been adduced before the committee to the effect that you were assigned by the Communist Party to engage in certain Communist Party activities. Will you tell the committee first, please, when you became a member of the Communist Party, if you did ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. Do you suggest that any testimony that the committee had before is binding on me ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Not at all. My question was to tell us when you became a member of the Communist Party, if you did. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. Has it been established in the record that I am a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TAVENNER. There has been evidence here indicating that. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I ask is that evidence binding on me?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you answer the question, please? The answer is not responsive to my question.
Mrs. POLLOCK. I would like to know whether or not testimony given about me is binding on me.
Mr. DOYLE. It depends on whether or not it is the truth, but we are asking you whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party. If you were, when?
Mrs. POLLOCK. That was not the question that I was asked. 65500--55-pt. 4-5 1838 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I don't understand the question as to whether the evidence given is binding upon her. As a matter of fact, the committee has not necessarily accepted it as evidence or anything else. Basing it upon certain information in the possession of the committee, a question has been asked of you. If it is not true, then certainly this is the forum in which to say so. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. What was the question?
Mr. TAVENNER. The question was to state when she first became a member of the Communist Party, if she did become a member. I am not particular about the form of the question. If the witness is puzzled by the question, I will change the question.
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am puzzled because you seem to be assuming a statement of fact. I want to understand your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask the question very pointedly. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party, and if so, when did you join ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. I would make it simpler than that and break the question down into two parts.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will change the question again. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. In the context of this inquiry I consider myself in jeopardy and therefore I invoke the first and fifth amendments to the Constitution. (Representative Moulder returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. SCHERER. Mrs. Pollock, you seem to be concerned as to whether or not the committee has evidence that you are a member of the Communist Party, or whether it has been established before this committee that you are a member of the Communist Party. Mr. Stephen Wereb testified here just a few minutes ago that you were a member of the Communist Party. It would go a long way toward making me make up my mind as to whether his testimony is correct if you answer the question as to whether or not he told the truth, when he said that you were a member of the Communist Party. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. I am sure that during the testimony of Mr. Wereb, I saw you seated within a few feet of him, so I assume you heard him name you.
Mrs. POLLOCK. I heard it.
Mr. DoYLE. I was sure you heard it.
Mr. SCHERER. You remember the question, Witness? Did Mr. Stephen Wereb who testified before this committee this afternoon tell the truth when(The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. SCIHERER. Just a minute. I can see how she can't understand the question if you are talking to her.
Mr. SCIOICHET. I am trying to behave here and don't want these comments against me.
Mr. SCHEIER. Continue to behave, then.
Mr. DOYLE. Go ahead, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. My question, Mrs. Pollock, is whether or not Mr. Stephen Wereb who testified before this committee this afternoon tes- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1839 tified correctly when he said that you were a member of the Communist Party. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. It is no laughing matter at all. Both counsel and the witness are laughing about the question.
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am perfectly willing to answer questions but I want to make it clear I came here and certainly do not expect to have any kind of pressure. I will do the best that I can. If something strikes me as funny, you know I might even feel I have the right to smile and this too, I think, should be permitted.
Mr. SCHERER. I just want it noted for the record what was happening because the record doesn't show that.
Mrs. POLLOCK. The record does not also show why I smiled, and I don't think it is a fitting thing to place into the record.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you feel now, Mrs. Pollock, you are ready to answer the question ?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Yes, sir. Excuse me a minute. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. Before this committee I do feel myself in jeopardy and I shall invoke the privileges of the first and fifth amendments. (Representative Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. By that do you mean you refuse to answer the question ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. PoLLOCK. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. You invoke the privilege because, I assume, you refuse to answer the question ?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask the witness a question? It is substantially the same question, I grant, but I want to ask it in a little different way: I am not trying to trap you in any way, but I happened to notice you were within a few feet of the witness who testified that he had personal knowledge of the fact that you were a Communist. He had your name listed as you will remember, and read it off with other names. He made a positive declaration that he knew you as a Communist because he was one even though it was for the FBI, and it is always good, we feel as a committee of Congress, when it happens that a witness on the stand testifies so that the person he names is right in the room at the same time and hears him testify. Now you have indicated you heard him testify, naming you. I am bringing that to your attention because here is one of the cases where it is possible for a witness to positively deny another witness' testimony. In other words, he was under oath, you are under oath. I want to call to your attention that that is the situation and in other words, it is very fortunate, as we see it, when a witness testifies that John Jones is in the party, and John Jones hears that testimony, and then we call John Jones and say what about it, did the witness tell the truth, or did he lie. We are giving you an opportunity to tell us whether or not it was true or false what that witness said about you. That is a good opportunity because it doesn't often happen that the person named is in the hearing room at the same time. I just don't know whether your counsel was in the room at the same time and heard that testimony. 1840 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SCHOICHET. I understand. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Pollock, have you ever used the nam -Mr. DOYLE. Wait a minute.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. I laid my foundation, Counsel, for the question I want to ask. I want to give you plenty of time and not hurry you. I want you to have every opportunity to confer with your distinguished counsel. Before you confer with him again, I want to ask you now, were you ever a member of the Communist Party? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am going to invoke my privileges under the first and the fifth amendments, Mr. Doyle, and I decline to answer.
Mr. SCHERER. Do you know Stephen Wereb? The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. PLLOCK. The same answer. I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. SCHERER. So there will be no mistake, did you see the man on the stand who testified here this afternoon who was called by the name of Stephen Wereb. Did you see him on the stand?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Yes, I saw him on the stand.
Mr. SCHERER. DO you know that man by the name of Stephen Wereb or by the name of Weber?
Mrs. POLLOCK. I have already declined to answer that.
Mr. SCHERER. For the same reasons?
Mrs. POLLOCK. For the same reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever used the name Anne Burton (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Tashia Freed?
Mrs. POLLOCK. I decline to answer for the same reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you in the hearing room when Tashia Freed testified?
Mrs. POLLOCK. NO, I was not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, whether you have ever lived at 6530 Maryland Drive? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I will decline to answer that question for the same reasons.
Mr. DOYLE. We can't accept that answer. I direct you to answer the question.
Mrs. POLLOCK. I believe that in the context of this inquiry that I am in jeopardy and that therefore these questions can be refused on the grounds of the first and the fifth amendments.
Mr. SCIERER. You said you believe you are in jeopardy and to pertinent questions invoked you have-and I think properly so-the protection of the fifth amendment, namely, that if you answered the questions you might be in jeopardy and might be prosecuted or might incriminate yourself, so I think you have properly invoked the fifth amendment. Now what I want to say, Mrs. Pollock, is this: The 83d Congress passed a law which gives this committee the right with the approval of COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1841 the Federal court to grant you immunity from any prosecution-that is, that if such immunity is granted, no matter what answers you give, you wouldn't be in jeopardy, the jeopardy which you say you fear. We feel you have quite a substantial bit of information concerning the activities of the Commuhist Party and which would be very helpful to this committee, and so I am going to ask you now if the committee should invoke that law and grant you immunity so that you wouldn't be in jeopardy no matter what answer you gave or he subject to any kind of prosecution, would you then answer the questions we ask you (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I will answer that I decline to speculate on what this committee will do and I stand on my answer.
Mr. SCHERER. The same answer you gave before ?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Yes.
Mr. SCHERER. You feel to answer my question would tend to incriminate you then? (The witness conferred with her counsel)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I feel that the answer to this question might involve me in jeopardy and I don't have to answer the question.
Mr. SCHERER. Maybe you misunderstand me. I am merely saying that if this committee with the approval of the Federal court should grant you immunity-that is, should free you from this jeopardy which you say you fear, and there would be no jeopardy, there would be no possibility of any prosecution for any answer that you might give us, if you were freed from that, would you then answer our questions? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I think I will make that decision at the time.
Mr. SCHERER. You can see, then, Mrs. Pollock, how there arises in our mind then some question as to perhaps your good faith in invoking the fifth amendment. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am advised by counsel that I have the right to invoke the first and fifth amendments without any implications of this kind.
Mr. SCHERER. You do have the right, but we have the right in view of what I just said to draw our own conclusions, the same as you have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Pollock, were you a member of the unit J-5 of the Hollywood section of the Communist Party in 1938 ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I will decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you transferred from the unit I mentioned to the 57th assembly branch, section of the Communist Party in 1938
Mrs. POLLOCK. Same answer on the same grounds. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Tashia Freed the unit membership director of your unit ? 
Mrs. POLLOCK. I decline to answer that on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to read into the record at this point an exhibit which was introduced by the witness, Mr. William Kimple. He identified this when it was introduced as Exhibit 13 as an original Communist Party document. 1842 cOMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA It is entitled "Section transfer, transferred from section Hollywood Unit J-5, name, Anne Burton, real name, Anne Pollock, new address 6530 Maryland Drive, dues paid to January 1938, signed Tashia Freed, Unit membership director, assigned to section 57th assembly branch (this card to be given to county membership director)." Were you issued Communist Party book No. 59962 in the name of Anne Burton? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand this exhibit to you. 
Mrs. POLLOCK. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to introduce a photostatic copy of this Communist Party card in evidence and ask that it be marked "Pollock Exhibit No. 1," for identification only.
Mr. DoYLE. It will be so received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have before me a blue cardMr. SCHOICHET. Just a moment. May I confer? 
Mr. DOYLE. Go ahead. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Pollock, I have before me a receipt card bearing date of December 7, 1937, for the same Communist Party bookthat is. Communist Party book No. 59962. Will you examine it, please, and state whether or not the signature thereon of Anne Burton was made by you? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I answer it the same way, Mr. Tavenner, I refuse to answer on the ground of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to introduce in evidence the photostatic copy of the receipt card and ask that it be marked "Pollock Exhibit No. 2," for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. It will be so received and marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. It reads as follows: I have received membership book, Anne Burton, State of California, District 13, County LA., City, L. A., section Union J-5, 12-7-37. Irrespective of any question of membership on your part in the Com- munist Party, did you receive any directions, instructions, or suggestions by the Communist Party to engage in Communist Party activities in the Jewish community? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. On the advice of counsel I refuse to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you engage in any such Communist Party activities?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that there was in existence in Hollywood at least as late as 1950 a secret group within the Communist Party whose identity was endeavored to be kept secret from the rank and file membership of the Communist Party. Do you know anything about the existence of such a secret group? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a member of such a group ?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Same answer. COMUtUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1843 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Community Party?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNEE. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Moulder?
Mr. MOULDER. I have no questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. Just one question. How much money have you contributed to the Communist Party,
Mrs. Pollock?
Mrs. POLLOCK. Isn't that just like asking me if I still beat my wife? Isn't that the same kind of category? I beg your pardon. I am sorry.
Mr. SCHERER. I will change it. Have you contributed any funds to the Communist Party?
Mrs. POLLOCK. I decline to answer that question.
Mr. SCHERER. Then what was wrong with my question of how much money have you contributed? The fact is you contributed large sums, have you not, to the Communist Party and Communist Party front organizations? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. Would you testify to that under oath?
Mr. SCHERER. I am asking. 
Mrs. POLLOCK. You are making the statement, you are not asking the question. I have tried to answer questions but I object to statements. There are certain statements I would make but because this is a congressional committee and because of that I have tried hard not to and I find Congressmen making statements for the press or for the record. I don't knowMr. SCHERER. You have an opportunity to say if you call it a statement. I said it was a question.
Mrs. POLLOCK. It is not a question.
Mr. SCHERER. If you say it is a statement, we will let it stand as a statement. Is what I said in my statement untrue? You have the right to answer now. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. If you ask the question I will do my best to answer it.
Mr. SCHERER. I said isn't it a fact-now, you can answer to that question "Yes" or "No"-but isn't it a fact that you have contributed large sums of money to the Communist Party and Communist front organizations? If that is not a fact, you can say "No"; if it is a fact, you can say "Yes." If you say "Yes" my next question is going to be: How much? But I know what you are going to say. You are going to take the fifth amendment. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. Thank God I have an attorney. I mean that. (Representative Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am calmer now due to the good offices of my attorney. I think we will both agree for reasons that the first and fifth amendments are in my Constitution-I am not trying to make a speech, I think we agree the reason they are in the Constitution is so I shall not be compelled in any way to furnish any kind of evidence which might tend at any time now or later by any chain to incriminate me. Knowing that I think I have the right and the privilege to claim the amendments which I have and I have so done and do now. 1844 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELEB, CALIF., AREA
Mr. SCHERER. I think you do have that right and I thought you would.
Mrs. POLLOCK. Well, is that because of personal knowledge of me?
Mr. SCHERER. No; but I have sat in hearingsMrs. POLLOCK. By what right do you have the right to say that I don't think you have any, not until I give an answer. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mrs. POLLOCK. I am sorry. Again thanks to you [addressing her counsel]. Perhaps my work in the community is also-Mr. SCHOICHET. There is no question before you.
Mrs. POLLOCK. All right.
Mr. I)oYLE. Thank you very much. You are excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Margaret Vaughn Meyer.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask you to rise and raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God
Mrs. MEYER. I do.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you. Have a chair by your counseL TESTIMONY OF MRS. MARGARET VAUGHN MEYER, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, DANIEL G. MARSHALL
