Mr. BLANKFORT. Michael Seymour Blankfort.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you horn, Mr. Blankfort?
Mr. BLANKFORT. December 10, 1907, in New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee, please, what your educational training and background has been?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I was educated in the public schools of New York City. I was an undergraduate at the University of Pennsylvania. I graduated with the degree of bachelor of arts in 1929. I was an instructor of psychology at Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine. I was an instructor in psychology at Princeton University.
Mr. TAVENNER. During what years?
Mr. BLANKFORT. At Princeton it was from 1930 to 1932, where I took graduate work as well as teaching, and received my master's degree. My educational record includes teaching at New York University in the adult education, in playwriting; a session at the University of Heidelberg in Germany, as a student of the language.
Mr. TAVENNER. What years were you teaching in New York?
Mr. BLANKFORT. 1934, I believe, or 1935. It may even have been later than that; I am not certain now. I wasn't a member of the regular faculty of New York University. This was teaching adults playwriting.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I am a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been actively engaged in the writing profession? 2328 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Since the early 1930's. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly what some of the more outstanding productions have been ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I am both a novelist and a screen writer. I have particular pride in my novels, since they are the sole product of whatever ability I have, and they are not collaboration efforts as moving pictures sometimes are. My first novel was called I Met a Man. It was published in 1936, I believe, or 1937. I published a novel in 1938 called The Brave and the Blind; one in 1942 called A Time To Live; another in 1946 called The Widow Makers. I published a biography of Brig. Gen. Evans Carlson in 1946. They are my books, generally speaking. I may have left out one or two that I wrote under a pseudonym which I was not particularly proud of. But to clear that up, they are just mystery stories, and I wrote them to earn a having. My screen productions have been-I believe the first one was Blind Alley, which was about a psychologist, which is why I got the job. That was 1939. Perhaps the best known of my screen work is Broken Arrow, produced by Fox; Halls of Montezuma, a picture, obviously, about the United States Marine Corps in 1950. Those are the best known.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned the Marine Corps. Did you at any time serve with the Marine Corps?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir. Immediately after Pearl Harbor, though I was married and had two children, and was above draft age-and also had a contract at Columbia Pictures as a writer-I volunteered. I received my commission in the summer of 1942 as a first lieutenant, and I served for a little over 21/2 years, and was honorably discharged as a captain.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Blankfort, during the course of the hearings conducted here in Washington on January 15, 1952, Mr. Louis Francis Budenz was a witness. In the course of his testimony, the following questions were asked him, and answers given by him to those questions, which I will read to you:
Mr. JACKION I have several questions, Mr. Chairman. If I may depart from this particular phase of the inquiry, I have some corollary questions which deal with another aspect of the committee hearings, and not knowing when we will have the pleasure of having Mr. Budenz here, I would like to ask him at this time: During the course of the hearings in the Senate Subcommittee on Internal Security dealing with the Institute of Pacific Relations, I believe you were a witness.
Mr. BUDENZ.Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. I would like to direct your attention to page 582 of the published hearings, or the testimony on those hearings when the matter of Evans F. Carlson's book The Big Yankee was under discussion. There was one quotation given from that book, and you were asked as to whether or not in your opinion, this quotation represented Communist propaganda, and your answer to that, as quoted in the record, was "Yes, I also would recognize the author of General Carlson's biography as a Communist, Michael Blankfort. He is well known to myself as a Communist. He had many consultations with me as such." And then Mr. Jackson continues: COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2329 
Mr. JACKSON. Inasmuch as his name has occurred a number of times during the course of the committee hearings in the Hollywood matter, I should like to ask several questions on that particular Individual. When did you first meet Mr. Michael Blankfort
Mr. BUDENZ. In 1935, at the Daily Worker.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you recall the occasion of the meeting, or what brought it about, or in what connection you met him?
Mr. BUDENZ.Yes; he was then writing for the Daily Worker, that is. 1 wouldn't say he was a regular member of the staff although in a way he was. He wrote reviews and other articles for the Daily Worker.
Mr. JACKSON. Over how long a period of time did sour association with Mr. Michael Blankfort continue?
Mr. BUDENZ. Well, it continued-I cannot tell you the exact year at the moment, but until he went out to Hollywood. In the first place, when he came to me and had a 3-hour conference with me in regard to how to penetrate thlie ranks of the Catholics of the west coast, he told me he had received instructions from the Politburo to endeavor to look into that while he was on the west coast He was driving through, by the way, and came to see me before he left.
Mr. JACKSON. You say effort to penetrate the Catholics? Do you mean on behalf of and for the Communist Party?
Mr. BUDENZ.That is correct.
Mr. JACKSON.Did you know Mr. Michael Blankfort? And I say Mr. Michael Blankfort because there is also a Henry Blankfort who testified or refused to testify before the committee during the course of the Hollywood hearings. Did you know Mr. Michael Blankfort to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. BUDENZ. Yes, sir; be came to me as such.
Mr. JACKSON.These consultations that you had with Mr. Blankfort took place in the offices of the Daily Worker?
Mr. BUDENZ.Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON.Did you ever see Mr. Michael Blankfort in the Communist Party meeting or Communist Party function where those present would have to be presumed to be Communists?
Mr. BUDENZ. Oh, yes; I have seen him, not in a branch meeting, or anything of that sort, but I have seen him in the Daily Worker.
Mr. JACKSON. Was Mr. Michael Blankfort an open member of the party, or was he a concealed member?
Mr BUDENZ. I should say he was a concealed member, although he did not conceal it very much while he was around the party.
Mr. JACKSON. He did not conceal it to you?
Mr. BUDENZ. No; he did not.
Mr. JACKSON. What was Mr. Blankfort's profession, do you know?
Mr. BUDENZ. Well, he was a writer. He wrote for the Daily Worker at that time, and was going to Hollywood also to get in some writing.
Mr. JACKSON. When did you last see Mr. Blankfort?
Mr. BUDENZ. That is the last time I saw him, when he went out to Hollywood.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know where he was going in Hollywood, or what employment he was going to undertake in Hollywood?
Mr. BUDENZ.He discussed it with me at that time, but I do not recall for the moment.
Mr. JACKSON.Was it in connection with the moving-picture industry?
Mr. BUDENZ. Yes, sir; in my remembrance it was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Mr. Louis Budenz in 1935 ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir May I comment generally on the point?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. BLANKFORT. First, may I say that through my attorney, Mr. Martin Gang, I was able to read the testimony given by Mr. Budenz, and I have worked hard and searched my memory for any recollection of the testimony which he has presented before this committee. I have made a few notes, and if you will permit me, Mr. Tavenner, may I refer to them in reply to the general testimony of Mr. Louis Budenz? 2330 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no objection. 
Mr. BLANKFORT. In essence, Mr. Budenz says that he had never seen me at any Communist Party meeting, or anything of that sort, or any Communist Party function where those present would have to be presumed to be Communists. But that he knew that I was a Communist, as he says, because I came to him as such. He states further that I had a discussion with him, and told him that the Politburo had instructed me to penetrate the ranks of the Catholics on the west coast. This alleged discussion with Mr. Budenz said that I had with him took place between 15 and 17 years ago, although he couldn't remember the exact year. Right now and here, and first of all, I want to categorically deny that any such discussion ever took place between me and Mr. Budenz.
Mr. TAVENNER. What discussion are you referring to specifically?
Mr. BLANKFORT. To the one about the penetration of the Catholics on the west coast, that I had told him that the Politburo had instructed me to penetrate the Catholics on the west coast. 
Mr. TAVENNER. There may be a slight distinction between your statement as to the Politburo telling you to penetrate it and Mr. Budenz' statement. But Mr. Budenz' statement was that you came to him and had a 3-hour conference with him in regard to how to penetrate the ranks of the Catholic Church, and that you told him that you had received instructions from the Politburo to endeavor to look into that while he was on the west coast. Now, that may be a different thing from directing you to penetrate. Are you making a distinction of that kind?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; I am not. I am saying categorically that I never had any discussion with Mr. Budenz about any of the matters which he has described. I am going into detail as to what discussion I may have had with
Mr. Budenz, not vt that time. Now, since Mr. Budenz, in his testimony, stated that he met me for the first time in 1935, as I said, I have tried to remember when I did meet Mr. Budenz. I associate him with a group of people around a man named V. F. Calverton.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell the name.
Mr. BLANKFORT. C-a-l-v-e-r-t-o-n. Mr. Calverton was a member of the magazine called the Modern Quarterly, when I first met him in about 1933 or 1934. It later became the Modern Monthly. I had just left Princeton University where, as I have already explained, I taught and was studying. I didn't take any doctorate of philosophy, which I was supposed to do, because I then determined that I was not going to become a teacher, but a writer, and I wanted to get to writing.
Mr. Calverton was my first real major writer, the first man I met who was a major writer, and I was a disciple of his. It was he who introduced me to his-he made me a kind of junior office boy editor of the magazine, which meant that I had to correct the typed script and make sure that contributors sent their contributions in on time, and so on. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2331 It is here, through Mr. Calverton, where I met such men, and this was part of his group, as John Chamberlin, you might remember, who was soon after, I think, literary editor of the New York Times; Henry Hazlitt.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell the name.
Mr. BLANKFORT. H-a-z-l-i-t-t. He was, I think, writing for the New York Sun then. Thomas Wolff, the great novelist. There was a Professor Dewey, a Professor Hook, Max Eastman, and others of that kind. There, to the best of my recollection, was the first time I met Mr. Budenz, because he was a contributor to the magazine, came to the house, which was open house. Of all the people of that group that I can recall now, he is the only one who became a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. He was not a member of the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; he wasn't, because the distinguishing characteristic of this group was that it was anti-Communist, it was attacked frequently as a group and as individuals as anti-Communists during that period and, to the best of my recollection, I never saw
Mr. Budenz after the time he left this group and became a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. WALTER. Before you proceed, you say this group was under attack. By whom?
Mr. BLANKFORT. By the New Masses and the Daily Worker. It was well known as an anti-Communist group. I don't mean to say that it was an organized group. This was a literary circle.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of Dewey. Was that John Dewey ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVrNNER. And Hook?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TANENNER. Was that Sidney Hook?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir. Now, I want to add, if I might, because it is relevant and pertinent to this testimony, and I don't want to overexaggerate or overestimate, this committee has heard from countless witnesses in Hollywood. from the days in which I arrived in Hollywood, which was 1937, with positions of authority in the Communist Party. I knew some of them as a writer in my trade. I knew some of the people who have testified before this committee. Not one of them has said that I was a member of the Communist Party. Now I think, if you will forgive this, I am a fairly competent person. If it had been my job to go to Hollywood to penetrate or even look into the problem of how to make Communists out of the Catholics, I couldn't have been so cleverly concealed, which is the implication of the testimony, that I could have gone into the Catholic circles, tried to convert them to communism, tried to take their God away, which is a very serious matter with me, and yet no one knows it. The fact is that there was nothing to know. The fact is that though I have been open in all my opinions, I speak about them, I have always maintained throughout my mature life an independent position, and I am sure we will go into that later. 2332 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY There is one further thing, and I must take this opportunity to say it, why I particularly resent that I should be charged with antireligious activity, because I consider to make Communists out of the Catholics an antireligious activity.
Mr. MOULDER. At this point, may I interrupt, Mr. Chairman It has always been the procedure before that the first question asked was, "Are yon now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party"?
Mr. BLANKFOrr. No, sir; I have not, and I am not. I think you should know this: I was brought up in an orthodox Jewish family. Anyone who knows me can confirm that throughout all my years I have always been a deeply religious person. It is incredible to me that I should be charged with antireligious opinion or activity. And there is this additional fact here I am telling you, that the first thing I did, when I settled in Los Angeles, was to join and become active in the B'nai B'rith, which some of you may know as a Jewish fraternal organization. I helped edit the newsletter which was fighting totalitarianism and hate groups at the time. Why would I do anything like that if I had the slightest interest in penetrating the ranks of the Catholics and making them Communists?
Mr. Budenz states that the conversation he had with me was right before I left for Hollywood. That was in the fall of 1937. The last time, to the best of my recollection-I am pretty certain of this-that I ever wrote for the Daily Worker was around the end of 1935. I would like to tell you about my writing for the Daily Worker. I wrote play reviews. I was a young man. I was interested in the theater. I am not ashamed to say that there was a certain amount of opportunism involved in this, because to be a play reviewer meant that I could get free tickets to all the plays. Well, it turned out that I didn't get tickets to all the plays, because not all the managers and producers would give tickets to the Daily Worker. It wasn't that I was a daily reviewer. There was no deadline. I got my tickets chiefly by mail. I sent my copy in chiefly by mail. There may have been a few occasions when I went there in person. As I try to look back over the 17 years, I have a picture in my head of the offices of the Daily Worker, and that picture represents an opening in a partition where the telephone operator sat and met people coming up. That is the picture that I have in my mind, and that is where I went, if I ever went there, to pick up the tickets in person and got them. After 1935 I stopped writing for the Daily Worker, and I had no occasion ever to go up to the offices of the Daily Worker, nor did I go, as far as I can recall. Now, there is one resemblance to fact, and I want to bring it to your attention, in Mr. Budenz' testimony, and that is that I dig drive out west. The only way I can explain the fact that Mr. Budenz knew that I drove out west is that I was, at that time, not well 6ff. I looked for companions and I looked for paying companions. It was wide- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2333 spread. I asked everybody I knew whether they knew anybody who wanted to share the expenses for the drive out. This was general knowledge, and it is the best explanation I can offer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you call upon Mr. Budenz at or about the time that you left for Hollywood?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir. No, sir, to the best of my recollection, and I know that whatever I am giving you is that, I did not. I did not see Mr. Budenz before I left for Hollywood. I had no reason to see him. I had no reason to go into the offices of the Daily Worker. Finally, and I will conclude these notes, beyond the placing of my word, because this is, as you gentlemen well know, an important moment for me, I am placing my word against that of another man. I would like to call your attention to the fact that during the very same years during which Mr. Budenz calls me a Communist Party member, I was dropped as a writer by both the New Masses and the Daily Worker. I was dropped as a writer because, specifically, I refused to fit my play reviews into the political theory of the moment. The Communist influence in the John Reed, at that time-Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment there, please. What was the time when you state you were dropped by the New Masses?
Mr. BLANKFORT. What was the question?
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you dropped as a writer by the New Masses?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I would say probably in 1934.
Mr. TAVENNER. And when were you dropped as a writer of the Daily Worker?
Mr. BLANKFORT. 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you explain why the Daily Worker would accept you as a writer if the New Masses had dropped you as a writer, when both of those papers are well known organs of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, I think I can. The times were different. The New Masses, which, to anybody now, looking back on it, was clearly a Communist magazine, at that time there were many, many people who wrote for the New Masses and the Daily Worker who were not Communists, or even Communist sympathizers. Now it has always been-I have always expressed an independent view, and I expressed it to the New Masses, when I was dropped because of a play review. The Daily Worker, I am sure, anxious to increase its circulation, perhaps I impressed people with my ability as a play reviewer, hoped that by my reviewing plays for the Daily Worker I might increase the interest in the Daily Worker. That is the only explanation I can give of that. It wasn't, Mr. Tavenner, if I may, an official hiring. I got no money for it. I never was hired. Perhaps it was Mike Gold, whom I knew, who said, "How would you like to write reviews for the Daily Worker?" And I grabbed at it. That is how it came to pass. Now whether the New Masses people told the Daily Worker people that I had "geed" at slanting a play review, I don't know. They may or may not have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what was this review which you said you "geed" at? 2334 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Interestingly enough, both plays were written by the same playwright. His name is Odets.
Mr. TAVENNER. Clifford Odets? 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Clifford Odets. The first play was Awake and Sing, I believe. It was produced, I think, in January 1935. The reason I can give you that date very specifically is because I called the New York Times and asked them. I did not like the play. By that I mean that I liked it, but I wasn't enthusiastic. I felt that there were many weaknesses in the play. Apparently-now, this is assumption on my part-the Communist Party did like the play. Now I had no personal knowledge, I want to assure you at this point, that Mr. Odets was a Communist or he wasn't a Communist. But they liked Awake and Sing, and I didn't. So after presenting my review I found, in both cases, that the review was being held up, it wasn't being published, and I may have called a man named Joe North who, I think, was editor of the New Masses at the time, or it may have been Joe Freeman, I don't recall, and said, "What about this?" And they said, "Well, we are going to publish it sometime, but are you sure that you are right about the play?" I said, "Yes." He said, as far as I can recall now, "We think it is a fine play." I said, "Well, I don't think it is such a fine play." The next thing I knew there were no more tickets for me, and someone else began writing play reviews, one of the editors. The same thing happened in the Daily Worket. The play was also by
Mr. Odets. It was called Paradise Lost. This time I loved the play, and this time, for some reason, the play was not loved by the Communist Party. The same thing happened. "Well, we will get another reviewer. We will try someone else out." In this case, I can't tell you who it was specifically because it happened after the performance, the opening night performance, because I was shocked by this. Of course, there was no deadline; I didn't have to go out and write the review, and maybe 6 of us went for coffee, and I heard this thing, "Do you like it or don't you?" And I said, "I loved it." They said, "Oh, you are wrong. It can't be so good." As a result, I didn't get any more tickets. I guess I went into too much detail on that.
Mr. TAVENNFR. No, you have not. I think it is necessary for us to know these matters in our effort to ascertain the facts. Was this first play which you mentioned, and which you were reviewin for the New Masses. of political implications?
Mr. BLXNKFORT. Specific political implications, no; general political implications, yes. What I mean by that is that it didn't say anything about the Communist Party in the play. There was no specific reference to revolution or Marxism or communism or Russia, or anything of that kind. It was an analysis of the middle-class attitudes. Both plays were analyses of the middle-class attitudes. Now, for the life of me, I can't tell the difference between Mr. Odets' attitude toward his material in the first play or the second play. The material was pretty much the same. It was the crafts- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2335 manship and the way he did it that concerned me. I had been primarily concerned with craft and not so much with what you use it for.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you know Joe North at that time to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. To my personal knowledge, no. I assumed that he was. May I finish, I have one more remark to make?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. Just a moment, before you proceed. What was the reason you can assign as to why you were dropped as a reviewer by the New Masses and the Daily Worker?
Mr. BLANKFORT. That I didn't fit into the current party line at the moment on the plays. Now, that is the reason I assumed. I want to finish only by adding to the fact that I had, during these various years that Mr. Budenz says I was a member of the Communist Party, this experience with the Daily Worker and New Masses. Another experience which is way out of the past is that there was a club in New York called the John Reed Club which consisted of artists and writers. You must understand that as a young man coming to New York, and who wanted to be a writer, he went where writers were. That is part of the job. I apphed for membership in the John Reed Club, and the Communist influence in the John Reed Club was so powerful that I was not accepted; my application was rejected, on the basis of the material which I have told you about.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the approximate date? I don't know, I would
Mr. BLANKFORT. I can't place it in date. say it was anywhere from the time I arrived in New York, which was 1932 to 1935 or 1936. I wish I could, sir. But I do remember that I had applied and was turned down.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that before your experience with the New Masses and the Daily Worker, when you were dropped by those papers, or after?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I can't honestly say what the sequence was. I can't say that. I want further to add that during this very period I maintained a close and constant friendship with pepole who were well known in vocal anti-Communist groups, something no party member would be permitted to do. I would like to add here that one of the reasons-if I could have accepted every political tenet of the Communist Party, one of the reasons which would have prevented me from becoming a Communist Party member was that it transcended personal relationship. If you were a Communist you just were not friends with people who were anti-Communist. I maintained relationships throughout this whole period of time with well-known anti-Communists.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question at this point. Mr. Blankfort, upon what do you base your statement that Communists were not permitted to associate with anti-Communists when there is ample testimony in the record before this committee that Communists were directed to maintain entirely cordial relations both in church, in 95829-52-pt. 7- 2336 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY lodges, in political registration with non-Communists for the purpose of influencing ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Jackson, I am sure that you are correct. I was referring to anti-Communists, not non-Communists. That is, the whole Calverton group were anti-Communists. These were people, as I hope will come out later, who compared me in review of my novel, who compared me with Eugene Lyons and said I am with Eugene Lyons and Max Eastman and all these people. These were not nonCommumsts. I knew Max Eastman, I never met Eugene Lyons, but you could not persuade Max Eastman about communism.
Mr. JACKSON. I do not ask that in the spirit of contention. I accept your distinction between anti- and non-Communists.
Mr. BLXNKFORT. My first novel, by the way, which was published in 1937 and which was written long before 1937, before I left for Hollywood, was given a very cold treatment in the Communist Party press. My second novel was criticized for treating Fascists as human beings even though wrong-that was the theme of my second novel-that Fascists were human beings, even though what they stood for was wrong. My third novel was savagely denounced as anti-Communist in the New Masses and the Daily Worker. In 1939 or 19401 I wrote a commemorative article in a magazine about V. F. Calverton, whose name was a curse word among Communists and the Communist circle.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me have the dates of the criticism of the Com2 munist press of your productions
Mr. BLANKFORT. 1937, 1939, 1942. I wrote this article in 1939.
Mr. T WVENNER. That was all after you had left New York and had gone to Hollywood?
Mr. BLANKFORT. But. if I may say so, relevant to the statement that I had told Mr. Budenz that I was being sent to Hollywood to do obviously Communist Party machinations.
Mr. Berkeley, who is present, reminded me this morning that he had b-en instructed to recruit me into the Communist Party, and he tried for 2 years. This would have been-I think lie referred to my first appearance in 1937 or 1938, when I first met Mr. Berkeley. Now, if I had been this person that Mr. Budenz describes, the record, my record, subsequent to that I think is relevant. During those years, Mr. Buiidenz saw and talked to thousands of people, Communists and non-Communists and anti-Communists, and I think we would all agree that events and incidents over a 2 0-year period tend to become confused and jumbled in one's mind. No human m-morv is so infallible. Mr. Budenz is clearly in error. I repeat. I had no such conversation with him, to the best of my recollection, I never saw him after he became a Communist Party member, and, as I answered your question before, I am not nor have I boen a member of the Communist Party. I am finished commenting on Mr. Budenz.
Mr TAVFNNFR. You have indicated that your subsequent action was inconsistent with your having been a member of the Communist Party prior to your leaving New York for Hollywood, and certainly inconsistent with your alleged statement to Mr. Budenz of your pur- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2337 pose and intent to look into certain phases of the Communist Party activity in California. I want to question you a little more fully regarding your activity in California. But before doing so, perhaps I should ask you additional questions about your activities before going to California. You were interviewed, I believe, by a member of the committee staff in April of 1951, were you not ?
Mr. BLANKFCRT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You denied at that time having ever been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were asked if you had at any time come under the influence of the Communist Party and replied, as I am informed, "Yes, I think that while critical of much of it or part of it, in the early 1930's I was influenced by what I felt was not so much the Communist Party as the Communist view of Marxism."
Mr. BLANKrORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you explain further what you meant by that?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Please stop me if you think I am going on too long. Marxism, as I understand, and I have read a lot, I don't think that I have ever been thoroughly conversant with Marxism, but I have tried-in the early thirties I tried to understand what Marxism was. I never did finish Das Capital, the book Marx wrote, but I read a lot of popularizations. Marxism had, for example, the Socialist Party which considered themselves Marxists. The Communists or the Stalinist group of Communists considered themselves Marxists. The Trotskyite group considered themselves Marxists. In those days there was the Lovestone group and there, probably if I recall, perhaps six or seven groups, and each one considered itself the pure followers of Karl Marx. Now when I speak of the Communist angle or Communist view of Marxism, I am talking specifically about the Stalinist view. During those years what brought me first to interest was I looked for opportunities to fulfill what I considered to be the imperative for me, and that is to partake in the alleviation of human distress. Put it in its context it was the 1930,'s, there was a depression, this was shocking. Now of all these groups, only the Communist Party group seemed to be active. They were the ones who, at least to my knowledge, the ones who were big, important, and did things like fight for unemploy, ment insurance, for example. Now, unemployment insurance was a very serious thing in those days. I don't think there had ever been unemployment insurance in this country that I knew of. I am not giving the Communist Party credit for getting unemployment insurance; I want that to be clear. But they were active. They did call for unemployment insurance. So that when I say that I came under the influence of the Communist view of Marxism, I meant that I joined organizations which subsequently I have now become convinced were Communist, pure Communist-front organizations, to put it that way. I would be honest to say that if you, Mr. Tavenner, had told me in 1935 or 1934, around that time, that the Committee to Get Un- 2338 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY employment Insurance for the Unemployed was a Communist-front I would have joined it anyway. I believed, at that time, that the Communist movement represented a progressive force in the American life. Wherever I disagreed-as I said, there were many things that 1 disagreed with them with-wherever they moved in this type of activity, I supported them.
Mr. WALTER. Did you not recognize the fact that those Communistfront organizations were nothing but band-wagon riders. They certainly did not take the lead in bringing about social reforms. When they saw that a social reform was about to become effective, then they adopted that as their policy because it was the popular thing.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Sir, I did not see it, and I was not sophisticated enough at the time.
Mr. WALTER. I want to say to you that those of us who have brought about social legislation have frequently been embarrassed by the support that we have received from those groups.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I can well understand that.
Mr. WALTER. So that they actually were a hindrance rather than any help in bringing about any social reforms.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I believe that, yes, sir. But in the early 1930's I didn't know as much about it. Right up beyond the 1930's, wherever there were activities, possibilities for action, I partock.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you partake in the sense of joining any groups which were studying Communist Party ideology?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. In this connection, you say you did become active and take part in a number of activities, which you now recognize, probably, as Communist fronts or organizations and publications sponsored by the Communist Party. The Daily Worker was known to you at the time you worked there as an organ for the Communist Party, was it not?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the same was true when you were employed and worked for the New Masses. Is that not correct?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, no, sir. In the first place, I wasn't employed, but when I wrote reviews for the New Masses I didn't believe that it was a Communist Party Magazine.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to show you a photostatic copy of a clipping taken from the Daily Worker of April 27, 1934. This article does not appear to be a review, but it appears to be an article on the problems connected with producing a play called The Stevedore. According to the Daily Worker, the article was written by Michael Blankfort, director of The Stevedore. Do you recall the article?
Mr. BLANKFOrr. I didn't recall it until I saw it.
Mr. TAmENNER. Do you recognize it as a contribution which you made to the Daily Worker?
Mr. BLANKFURT. I am certainly sure it is, and I would like to point out that it is about a play that I had been the director of, a play. As a director of a play, I had written articles about this play, the only play I did direct, for any periodical that would have asked me. It was part of the publicity program for a play. Directors do that; actors and playwrights do that regularly. It is part of the procedure.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to point out to you several expressions used COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2339 by you in the course of this article. In the first line of the last paragraph, there appears the words, "a familiar canard of the white chauvinism." Do you see that expression?
Mr. BLANKFORT. The last line?
Mr. TAVENNER. The first line of the last paragraph.
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; wait a minute.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is the last paragraph of the first column.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir; I have read it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you tell the committee what meaning you intended to convey by the use of those words?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir. I must preface it by saying this took place in 1934, and to ask me what I had in mind then is difficult. But I think I can say that up to Stevedore, up to the time in the theater in New York, it was difficult for Negro actors to get work, and the point that I was trying to make here is that people-I said, "A familiar canard of the white chauvinism is that Negro casts are unrehable," and which was a stereotyped reaction that producers and directors gave about Negro actors.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was not the language the stereotyped language of the Communist Party?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, it may well be. It may well be. I want to remind you that I was reading Communist literature.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you reading it under the supervision of some leader of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir. I was reading it because I was interested. I was interested in everything that was going on around me.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the second column appears these words: There are no stock Mammies or mght club jazz babies or comic butlers, or any other of the false characters which colored actors or actresses are called on to play in the bourgeois theater. Will you tell the committee what you meant by "bourgeois theater"
Mr. BLANKFORT. I was a student at that time, and most of my reading was directed toward an analysis of the social content of the history of the theater, and there have been many histories of the theater written. The whole French theater of the nineteenth century has been called, in many histories, not necessarily left wing, the theater of the bourgeoisie.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that not the stereotyped language of the Communist Party in referring to anything which was not Communist?
Mr. BLANIKORT. It may well have been at that time; yes, sir. I do not deny that the Communists had stereotypes. Believe me, I disliked them and I had an enormous distaste for them: I used them with a sheer part of my education. But the word "bourgeois" goes back long before the Communists took it as a stereotype.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. But at this particular time it was, and has since that time, used as a stereotype expression of the Communist Party to describe anything which is not of Communist art; is that not correct?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I believe-Mr. VELDE. Do you still use that term, "bourgeoisie"?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't; no sir. I think it is too inclusive. I don't use the term. I try my best not to use any general terms of that char- 2340 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY acter. My experience has been in America that to use that word to any class or any group in our country would be completely misleading. It has no sense.
Mr. VELDE. Do you recall when you stopped using it, or any of the other well-known Communist terms ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; I don't recall. I was not conscious of ever saying that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of course, it is a term that has been used back in French history, but was it not adopted in the Communist Manifesto itself, and appears in the manifesto? Did you learn of it there?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I read the manifesto.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you find it there?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No. I read the word "bourgeois" long before I read the Communist Manifesto.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand, but you do know it was recognized as a Communist Party term in the manifesto-the Communist Manifesto ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, the Communist Manifesto preceded the Communist Party by a long number of years, and the writings of the American Socialists, Jack London, whom I remember reading, and Debs, used the word "bourgeois" very, very often. However, I think your point is about the use of the word as a Communist Party or a Communist stereotype. On that, there is no disagreement. I am sure it was used as a Communist stereotype.
Mr. TAVENNER. But do you mean to tell the committee that at the time you were using language of that type, while working for the Communist Party organs, you were not a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of the clipping from the Daily Worker of December 21, 1935. This article is entitled "Introducing the Staff." The name of Michael Blankfort appears as the theater editor. Does that refer to you ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. That is me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that not indicate a connection with the publication of that paper of a more definite character than merely that of making reviews for the paper, when you would be paid for it only in theater tickets? I mean, does it not show that you had a definite position with the Daily Worker ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. The fact is that I did no more for the Daily Worker than I described. I cannot be responsible for the way the Daily Worker advertised my appearance as a play reviewer in it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, were you not the theater editor of the paper?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I never considered myself the theater editor. Now, I believe that on several issues my name did appear as the theater editor. But what does an editor do? He makes up a page, he is responsible for the theater section. As far as I know, I never was responsible for anything but my play reviews. I never attended a staff meeting. I assumed that that is what a regular member of the staff would do.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to this same article, the editors of the Daily Workers are C. A. Hathaway, Joseph North, James Allen, and COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2341 Edwin Seaver. Were you personally acquainted with each of those individuals?
Mr. BLANKFORT. The only two that I was personally acquainted with, I can remember, was Edwin Seaver and Joseph North.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have already testified regarding Joseph North. Was Edwin Seaver known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall a meeting held in Philadelphia in April 1936, and referred to as the National Conference of the New Theater League? Do you recall a meeting held in Philadelphia, in April 1936, referred to as the National Conference of the Theater League ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't recall it at all. I am pretty certain that I never attended it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I show you a photostatic copy of a clipping from the Daily Worker of April 23, 1936. It is an article by Ben Irwin regarding the conference. In the last column appear these words: Greetings from John Howard Lawson, Michael Blankfort, and from a number of exiled German playrights now in the Soviet Union received prolonged applause from the delegates. Does that refresh your recollection ?
Mr. BLANKFOT. Not at all, because I am pretty certain I wasn't there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you and John Howard Lawson send greetings to that meeting of the National Conference of the Theater League?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't know about Mr. Lawson. I may have sent greetings. I may have been asked to send a telegram of greetings. I have no recollection that I did. But I may have, as it says here I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you recall having collaborated with John Howard Lawson in regard to it?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; I didn't collaborate. I have never col. laborated with John Howard Lawson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of course, they could have been entirely separate. This article does not necessarily mean that it was done jointly. Did you know John Howard Lawson at that time, in 1936 ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Not well.
Mr. TAVENNER. This was before you had gone to California, to Hollywood?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, how had you met John Howard Lawson before going to Hollywood?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I may have met him at the League of American Writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was John Howard Lawson in New York along about that period, in 1936. or prior to that ?
Mr. BLANKFORD. I think so; yes. I think I met him in two ways: One was in the League of American Writers, and the other was in the Theater Union, which produced his play.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Communist Party prior to your going to Hollywood ? 2342 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Referring again to the greetings alleged to have been sent by you to the National Conference of the New Theater League, it would indicate that you were a member of the New Theater League; is that true?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I wrote for a magazine called The New Theater magazine, which may have been the organ of the New Theater League. 1 wrote a series of three articles on the psychology of the audiencewhat makes an audience respond as it does to different kinds of material.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what the New Theater League was, how it was created and what it advocated?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I was never an active or leading member of the New Theater League, but my recollection was that it was an organization to which Little Theater groups, throughout the country, are joined. It was an organization of theaters. There was a theater in Los Angeles, which I am reminded of by this article. There were Little Theaters throughout the country doing plays like Bury the Dead, Waiting for Lefty, and others, that formed a national organization, and this was it. (Representative Bernard W. Kearney left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time travel outside of the United States?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir; many times.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you visited any countries of Europe?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir; almost all of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you visit the Soviet Union?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
Mr. BLANKFORT. In 1929.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of your trip ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I had been teaching at Bowdoin College. It was the first money I made and I wanted a trip to Europe. I found out that there was an American tour of anthropologists being sent into the remote part of the Caucasus. I remember the name of a University of Buffalo anthropologist-I think he was the head of it-a man named Leslie White. As a psychologist, I was interested. So somehow, I can't remember who arranged it-my meeting with Leslie White-I then joined the party. I can remember two girls from Philadelphia, sisters, named Wasserman. I remember their names. We went down to the Caucasus and spent most of our time, about 5 weeks, on horse, and went into a village of the Caucasus, in the inner Caucasus, where people spoke pure Greek. The myth was that Jason was there for the Golden Fleece, and that is how these people spoke the Greek that they did. They had blood feuds. They lived in fortified farms with towers, and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you whether or not World Tourists, Inc., or Open RoadMr. BLANKFORT. Onen Road. A man named Rothschild, I think, was head of the Open Road at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. This was sponsored by Open Road ? COMMUNiSM LN HOULLYWUU ouIvTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2343 
Mr. BLXNKFORT. Not the tour. But I think our tickets were gotten through Open Road. There were a couple-I say a couple; I am not certain how many there were-of Russian anthropologists who joined this group and went into the Caucasus with us.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether you paid the regular cost of transportation or whether any assistance was given you, any financial assistance by Open Road or World Tourists, Inc.?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I paid.
Mr. TAVENNER. But the tickets and the arrangements for transportation were made available by Open Road ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of another article appearing in the Daily Worker, and of the date of June 6, 1936.
Mr. JACKSON. It seems to me that the various exhibits which are being shown should be made a part of the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you would like them a part.
Mr. JACKSON. I request that they be received and marked as exhibits in the testimony.
Mr. WALTER. Without objection, they will be marked and made a part of the record. (The documents referred to, marked "Exhibits Nos. 1, 2, and 3," are filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have the article before you?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to introduce it in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 4." This article is by Michael Gold and Michael Blankfort, and begins with these words: We have been asked by the editor of the Daily Worker's feature page to comment on the matters that impelled us to write Battle Hymn, the drama about John Brown, the abolitionist, which is now playing at Daley's Experimental Theater of the WPA Do you see that ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Further along in the article you said: There is a great and epic pathos in the fact that an abolitionist like John Brown, who was hounded by spies, cursed as a madman, beaten, and finally hung, just as our Tom Mooneys and Vanzettis are today, and for almost the same reasons, and by the same exploiters. Will you explain to the committee what you meant by the use of those words?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I can't explain to the committee because I didn't write this. I wrote a play called Battle Hymn with Michael Gold. Specifically, I didn't collaborate with him. He had written a play called John Brown, which was not right. It wasn't good enough. He brought it to me and I rewrote the play and it subsequently was produced by the Federal Theater here in San Francisco. Michael Gold's name is on the play as coauthor. Michael Gold at this time, I suspect, was writing for the Daily Worker and wrote this article. As coauthor he credited me with coauthorship of the article. I can't explain that. I am as certain as anything that I did not write this article.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were employed by the Daily Worker at that time; were you not? 2344 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTIu -PCTURE IEiNDUSTRY 
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I mean you were working for the Daily Worker at that time.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Not to my recollection did I work for the Daily Worker as late as June 6, 1936. I use the word "work." I don't feel like I worked for the Daily Worker.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were making contributions during this period of time to the Daily Worker; were you not?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't recall any. There may have been. I have no files, Mr. Tavenner. I don't recall any.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you saw the article at the time that it appeared, or shortly thereafter; did you not?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have no recollection of seeing this article before this. The likelihood was that in June I may have been away from New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Later in the article appears another statement that I want to call to your attention. It is this: The proletarian writer who will help revivify this great tradition will find himself well rewarded. Will you tell the committee what a proletarian writer is? (Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, that phrase kind of tips it off to me that I didn't write it. I may have used the phrase "proletarian writer," but I sometimes tried to qualify it because at that time there was a great discussion as to what is a proletarian writer. Is he a man who works as a member of the proletariat-that is, the working class-or is he a man who writes about the working class ? If you ask me what I thought then about the phrase "proletarian writer," I couldn't be certain about it. It is not qualified here. The feeling then which I shared was that a writer should participate in the deep currents of his time. I don't believe that a man can be a good writer without loving people. Now, I don't mean to say that people are limited to just a workingclass people. I think we are all workers. But you had to go out and you had to love these people if you were going to be a good writer. You had to feel them. I came from a closed corporation. I was brought up in a family, and I didn't know much of the world. I certainly had never known a union man.
Mr. 1' VENNER. This was another of those stereotyped expressions of the Communist Party used frequently by it in referring to writers?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Tavenner, may I comment on that?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I think if you were to look through the periodicals of that time, the New York Times, and all the periodicals--right, left, and center-I think you would find that these phrases had widespread use, that many people who were not members of the Communist Party used these words. This was the current of the time, the way Fair Deal now has become the current. One can use the word even in a sympathetic sense without indicating his connections. I mean, these were current words of the time. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2345 (Representative Francis E. Walter returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. How long had you known Michael Gold? 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Probably for 2 or 3 years. At the time the play was produced, which I believe was 1936, I didn't see him. I mean, I knew him but I didn't have contact with him. I didn't talk with him.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time you collaborated in the work referred toMr. BLANKFORT. We didn't collaborate in the sense of two people getting together and working. I got his script and rewrote it, and then either gave it to him or sent it to him, and I think he wrote me about it. He didn't like some of the things I had done with it, and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostat copy of an article that appeared in the Daily Worker on December 9, 1936. I ask that it be introduced in evidence and marked "Blankfort Exhibit 5."
Mr. WALTER. It will be marked and received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 5," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. It is an announcement of the twenty-fifth celebration of New Masses. At this celebration, it appears that they played Anniversary Cavalcade by Michael Blankfort. Would you tell the committee the circumstances under which you contributed to that occasion ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. That is true. They dropped me as a contributor.
Mr. BLANKFORT. The Anniversary Calvacade, as I have now recalled it to me, the New Masses was an outgrowth of a magazine called the Masses, which in turn was an outgrowth of the magazine called, I think, the Liberator, which, in turn, I believe, was an outgrowth of a magazine called or published by the Inter-Collegiate Socialist Society. That is, it was kind of an inheritance. I believe Max Eastland was the editor of the old Masses, as was perhaps John Reed or Jack London, and so on. I would like to be able to recall with absolute accuracy who asked me, or how I came to write this. But obviously, someone asked me whether I would write a history of the New Masses. That is why it was called Anniversary Cavalcade, and I wrote one. I went to the library, I looked up the Liberator, I looked up the old Masses, and I got material from them and I wrote the Calvacade.
Mr. TAVENNER. This was some years after you say they had dropped you because of your attitude toward your work on reviewing plays?
Mr. BLANKFORT. That is true. They dropped me as a contributor.
Mr. TAVENNER. And then came to you again to perform this particular work?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you another photostatic copy of a page from the March 9, 1936, issue of New Masses, which I desire to 'offer in evidence and have marked as "Blankfort Exhibit No. 6."
Mr. WALTER. It will be marked and will be received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 6," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. It contains a review by Michael Blankfort of An Actor Prepares, by Constantine Stanislovsky. Do you recall that occasion ? 2346 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes. I still have the book. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that a contribution made by you to New Masses?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well now, there is confusion here. I said that I had stopped contributing as a regular contributor to the New Masses and Daily Worker at a certain time.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to say you had been dropped by them.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes; that is true. They stopped asking me to contribute play reviews. I don't know how long it was before they stopped sending me books. In this case, I may have begged for the book. In this case, I may have run into Joe Freeman or Joe North and said, "Will you send me a book to review?" There are no two ways about this. Book reviews, to review books- for which, by the way, I was paid nothing-means that you got the book. That means that you owned it. This book cost $2.50; it was a book I wanted. I begged to review for the New York Times. I begged to review for the Nation and New Republic. I wanted those books.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; but the fact that you were continuing to make reviews for the New Masses, regardless of what purpose you had in mind, is inconsistent with your prior statement that they dropped you because of your attitude unless you have some explanation of it.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, they knew that I would not write play reviews to fit their design. Now, if I had said in this review that I thought that Stanislovsky was a something, that they didn't like, then they wouldn't have published this review. I wrote a review about a theater piece. It is about acting. It is a nonpolitical piece about acting. I had no objection-I want this to be clear, I don't want to mislead you-I had no objection to contributing as a writer on nonpolitical material to the New Masses. I would say, when I would not have written for the New MassesMr. TAVENNER. I know, but the point is that you have reiterated here several times that the New Masses dropped you because you would not conform your views to their wishes and their desires. Now, if that were true, it is hard to reconcile it with the appearance of other reviews several years later.
Mr. MOULDER. As I understand it, you mean to construe that they dropped you as a regular contributor to the paper?
Mr. BLANKFORT. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that the only explanation you have of that, that you were dropped as a regular contributor ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a pamphlet published by the National Committee Against Censorship of the Theater Arts. According to this pamphlet you were a member of that committee. Will you tell us when that committee was created, the purpose of its creation, and who solicited your support, if you were a member? (Representative Harold H. Velde left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. BLANKFORT. I can't even remember the committee. This was 1935. I was opposed to censorship, and I can't-as I look over the names, I am impressed by the number of people that I knew and didn't know, and people like Brooks Atkinson, of the New York Times, COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2317 and Bennet Cerf, and Clifton Fadiman. I don't know anything about this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. You notice there also the name of Mary Virginia Farmer?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with her?
Mr. BLANKFOIiT. I think-I know I was, but I am trying to remember under what circumstances. I think she was an actress whom I met who may have appeared in some plays.
Mr. TAVENNER. And John Howard Lawson?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether either of those persons were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; I didn't. I think this list characterizes the spirit of the times. There were people whom we now know as Communists there, and there are people quite unlike the others, Charles Angoff and others. I don't want to go on reading all the names, but I think an examination of this list would show at that time people who were Communist Party members, as we now know, people who were generally sympathetic, people who were liberals, people who were interested only in the theater, and that is the point about this. This was the National Committee against Censorship of the Theater Arts. These were the people interested in the fight against censorship. Now, if this was a Communist-front organization, it was very clever, because who in the theater is not interested in fighting against censorship ? This was organized by the Communist Party ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Of course, every Communist front is made up of persons who are not members of the Communist Party as well as those who are. If there were only Communist Party members it would not be a front; it would be a Communist group.
Mr. BLANKFORT. That is right. I understand that.
Mr. WALTER. What attempt was being made at that time to impose any sort of censorship ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't remember the detail of the theater at that time, sir. What I recall, as you ask the question, is something by O'Neill, by Eugene O'Neill; it may have been some play of his that was-I don't recall the details, in fact, back in the period 1935 in the theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of the letterhead of the American Society for Technical Aid for Spanish Democracy. According to information in the files of this committee, some of this technical aid was the recruiting of Americans to fight in the Loyalist Army during the Spanish Civil War. The name of Michael Blankfort appears as a member of the board. Will you tell the committee how this organization was formed, its purposes, and how your support of it was solicited?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Tavenner, there are two things about this: One is that I never attended as a member of the board, I never attended as a member of the committee, I have no recollection of anybody asking for my name, or giving it. That is one thing. And the other thing that I want to say is that if I had been asked I would have given it, so there it is. 2348 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY I have no hesitancy or shame or anything but a deep feeling about my views on the Spanish war. I was for the Loyalists. This is something I believe in. I believed in the Loyalists, and I wanted them to win. I was opposed to Franco and the Spanish Fascists.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will stand in recess for 10 minutes. (Whereupon, a short recess was taken, and upon reconvening, Representatives Francis E. Walter and Donald L. Jackson were present.)
Mr. WALTER. The committee will be in order. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Blankfort, I show you a photostatic copy of the program of the banquet given Mother Bloor on the forty-fifth anniversary of-and I quoteyour [Mother Bloor's] never-ceasing fight in the ranks of the revolutionary movement for the liberation of the American toilers. I offer this in evidence and ask that it be marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 7."
Mr. WALTER. Let it be marked and received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 7," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. The name of Michael Blankfort not only appears as a sponsor, but personal greetings by Michael Blankfort appear in the form of "All power to Mother Bloor." At the time when you were interviewed by Mr. Wheeler in April of 1951 you stated that you were not a sponsor of that banquet. Does this photostatic copy of the program refresh your recollection?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, it doesn't, Mr. Tavenner. I don't remember ever being asked to be a sponsor. I don't remember ever sending a message of greetings. I don't remember whether I ever met Mrs. Bloor or not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever permit anyone to use your name in sending greetings to Mother Bloor?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir. But it is not unlikely that someone may have said to me, "They are having a conference, or an anniversary or a birthday party for Mother Bloor," and I might have said "That is fine, all power to her." I don't go beyond that.
Mr. TAVENNER. The date on the program is January 24, 1936, so this was prior to your going to Hollywood.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir. As I have read, Mother Bloor is an old lady.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you say an old Communist lady?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I certainly would, I certainly would.
Mr. TAVENNER. The First American Writers' Congress was held in 1935, and this congress founded the League of American Writers. According to the report of that congress, you were among those submittin, articles. Do you recall that ?
Mr. 3LANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a printed record of the First Congress of American Writers published by the International Publishers in 1935.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Among the articles submitted to this conference was one entitled "Social Trends in the Modern Drama," by Michael COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2349 Blankfort and Nathaniel Buchwald, appearing in the report beginning at page 128.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you submit that article to this Congress of American Writers ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. To be precise about it, I spoke it aloud. It was a regular congress, and I read the article; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the League of American Writers at the time ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is the League of American Writers still in existence?
Mr. BLANKFORT. To the best of my knowledge, it is not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know when it ceased to function ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No; I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you not recall that it became nonexistent shortly after the German invasion of Russia ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. NO, sir; I am not personally-I don't remember that. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are aware of the fact, are you not, that the publishing company, International Publishers, which published this book, has been cited as a Communist Party publishing house headed by Alexander Trachtenberg?
Mr. BLANKFORT. When was that cited ?
Mr. TAVINNER. The date is September 24, 1942, that it was cited by Attorney General Francis Biddle.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir. This is published in 1935, these proceedings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you aware that it was cited as a Communist PartyMr. BLANKFORT. I am now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know at the time that the International Pubhshing House was a part of the Comunist Party?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I suspected strongly that it was a Communist Party publishing house. Although sometimes it published non-Communist stuff. That was a little confusing about it. But I certainly believed that it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you also aware that the Attorney General classified the League of American Writers as a Communist Party organization ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. When was that?
Mr. TAVENNER. The League of American Writers was cited by Attorney General Tom Clark on June 1, 1948, and again on September 21, 1948, as subversive and Communist; and by the Special Committee on Un-American Activities in its report on January 3,1940, and June 25, 1942, and again on March 29, 1944.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I think I was aware of the Attorney General's designation in 1948-was that the date?
Mr. TAVENNFR. Yes.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I cannot say that I was aware of its earlier citations.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a clipping from the People's World, of May 2, 1942. According to this article, you were a 2350 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY master of ceremonies of the feature presented by the school for writers of the League of American Writers. Do you recall that occasion ?
Mr. BLANKFGRT. Yes, I recall it now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated with the school for writers?
Mr. BLANKIFORT. Yes, sir; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a circular concerning the American people's meeting held at Randall's Island, N. Y., on April 5, 1941. This was a meeting of the American Peace Mobilization. According to the circular you were a sponsor of the American Peace Mobilization. Is that correct?
Mr. BLANKFORT. According to the circular, I was.
Mr. T.AVENNER. And I desire to offer the circular in evidence and ask that it be marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 8."
Mr. WALTER. Mark it and let it be received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 8." is filed herewith.) AiMr.BLANKFORT. May I comment on this.
Mr. TAVExNNL. Yes, sir. I am going to ask you further questions.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Pardon me.
Mr. TAVENNER. You state that, according to the circular, you are listed as a sponsor. Were you a sponsor ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Tavenner, I do not recall ever sending permission or greetings or anything of that kind to the American Peace Mobilization. 1 want to say in this connection-and I think you have found this to be true of me so far, that of many of the activities in my past I have no apologies. If at any time I have ever been connected with the American Peace Mobilization, it is the one thing of which I am deeply ashamed. That is all I want to say. I can expand, but that is all I want to say now. I did not sponsor it, to my real recollection on the thing.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman, at that point? Air. WALTER. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. You remember that this is one of a number of organizations with which your name has been associated, and which have later been proscribed either by this committee, or by the Attorney General's Office, as being Communist-front organizations, and dominated by Communists. You have entered a vehement denial in the case of the Peace Mobilization. Does that mean that you did not effect such rejection of the other organizations upon the finding by the United States Government that they are and were Communistdominsted organizations?
Mr. BLANKFORT. On the contrary, Mr. Jackson. I respect these. I would not belong to an organization that had been called subversive.
Mr. JACKSON. That is the point I wanted to make. You emphatically reject the America Peace Mobilization?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I do, because my principle has been whenever I have joined an organization, to examine the objectives, the stated objectives.
Mr. JACKSON. You should have examined the membership lists of some of them.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I certainly should have. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2351 
Mr. JACKSON. The membership lists would have told you a great deal more about the organizations than the avowed principles.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I agree with you. However, I subsequently have been shocked to find that there have been people connected with these organizations who have been listed as Communist Party members. It had never occurred to me, honestly, that a lot of these people who have been listed, were Communist P'arty members
Mr. TAVENNER. You are aware that the Attorney General has listed the American Peace Mobilization as a Communist organization, and that it has also been cited by this committee, are you not?
Mr. BLANKFORT. That was in 1948 it was cited?
Mr. TAVENNER. I do not think I gave you the date of the American Peace Mobilization. December 4, 1947, was the date it was cited as subversive and Communist by Attorney General Tom Clark, and also by Attorney General Francis Biddle, on September 24, 1942, and it was cited by this committee first on June 25, 1942, and later on January 2, 1943, and March 29, 1944, as one of the most seditious organizations which ever operated in the United States, and an instrument of the Communist Party prior to Hitler's attack on Russia.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I certainly would not knowingly have remained in any organization that was cited as subversive.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write the book The Big Yankee?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was this book based on the life of Evans F. Carlson?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you personally acquainted with Evans F. Carlson ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir. May I comment on that?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. BLANKF RT. The first time I met the then Col. Evans F. Carlson was at Camp Pendleton, when I served in the Marine Corps. This is a man whose reputation, as it came to me, was as a Marine Corps leader who had won the adoration of every marine who had ever heard of him. My friendship with General Carlson is one of the dearest things of my memory. I cannot tell you with what outrage I responded to the accusation and allegation that General Carlson was a member of the Communist Party, for many reasons. One, I knew him well; but more than that, his public record. His public record as a God-fearing man, who made no pretenses about it, whose eulogy after his death at Guadalcanal, in which his own words were used, stated "This experience reaffirms our belief in the Supreme Being." This is a man who fought at Guadalcanal, at Tarawa, at Makin, was wounded twice, and at Saipan. I would like to point out that his father is a Congregationalist minister, who is still alive. When I was at General Carlson's home, grace was said before meals. His total attitude toward life is that of a very deep feeling religious man. I would like to add further that any reference to General Carlson in relation to the Chinese Communist armies-so it is on the recordwas done, as far as I know, and as far as the records are, as a member of the Naval Intelligence. He sent his reports in, and that is what lie was there for. And it is a terrible blow to the American morale. 9.,S29 -52-pt 7-4 2352 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY If you are going to call-I don't mean you, Mr. Tavenner-but if one calls General Carlson a Communist, this is good for the Communists; it is not good for the country.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you are acquainted with the fact that the book which you wrote was distributed by the Liberty Book Club, a new book club organized in New York to distribute Communist books, are you not?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I was very happy that they did. It meant an additional royalty.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, aside from the question of royalties, what special purpose would the Communist Party have in circulating your book? Do you attach any special significance to that?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Has the Liberty Book Club been cited as a Communist Party organization ? I don't know that.
Mr. WALTER. Who ever charged General Carlson with being a Communist?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Budenz, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Where was that, sir?
Mr. BLANKFORT. In his testimony before the Senate Internal Affairs Committee.
Mr. JACKSON. Internal Security Committee.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Internal Security Committee.
Mr. JACKSON. On hearings referring to the Institute of Pacific Relations.
Mr. WALTER. Are you sure that Mr. Budenz described General Carlson as being a Communist, or did he say that the author of the biography was?
Mr. JACKSON. I retract that. He did not identify him. I don't think he did. I think the question was whether this excerpt from Mr. Blankfort's book would be interpreted as Communist propaganda.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the answer was "Yes" and then he said he identified the author of the book.
Mr. WALTER. That is it.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. WALTER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the testimony which I read, there was no identification of Carlson.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have it here on page 581, the date is August 1951, part II, Mr. Budenz, in answer to a question said: Yes, sir; General Carlson was a member of the Communist Party. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand from your statement that your study of the document and other material which you had available to you for use in writing the life of Carlson, that you saw nothing to indicate membership on his part in the Communist Party?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I certainly did not.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have been listed in an advertisement of the Civil Rights Congress as a sponsor of the Los Angeles chapter of the Civil Rights Congress. In this advertisement it is said that: The Civil Riehts Congress is defending Gerhart Eisler, world renowned anti-Fascist fighter. Do you recall that? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2353 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, I recall that. I got out as quickly as I could. As soon as-let me put it like this: I am for civil liberties. I don't believe that any civil-liberties organization should devote itself to the defense of the civil liberty of the Communists, and no one else. I did not know until Mr. Wheeler brought it to my attention, that the Civil Rights Congress had been formed out of the International Labor Defense and someone else, some other organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. The National Federation of Constitutional Liberties.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes. That is what was brought to my attention. I didn't know that. I joined the Civil Rights Congress. I got out pretty quick, and I joined the American Civil Liberties Union. I got out because I felt some-by the way, I never attended a meeting, but I felt from what I gathered in the public press-I don't believe everything I read in the newspapers, but I believe the Civil Rights Congress was not in business to defend the civil rights of everybody or of anybody. The American Civil Liberties Union, of which I became a member afterward, will defend Communists and anti-Communists and Fascists. That is what I believe the civil rights should be.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to introduce in evidence a photostatic copy of the Daily People's World of May 2, 1947, and ask that it be marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 9." That is the advertisement to which I have referred.
Mr. WALTER. Mark it and let it be received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 9," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TA ENNER. This advertisement of the Civil Rights Congress, which lists you as a sponsor, also says that Eisler, Gerhart Eisler, was framed by this committee, and it 'calls for the abolishment of this committee. Upon what evidence do you base the statement that Eisler was framed by this committee, if you had any part in the sponsorship of the movement which the article says you were a sponsor of ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I want to confess to something: I gave my name to an awful lot of organizations. It took me a long time-and this is no credit to me, believe me, it is no credit to me-to realize that giving one's name to an organization of any kind means one of two things: Either you have got to get into that organization actively and go over a copy like this, or you don't give your name, or you don't belong. I didn't realize that. I say this, and it is no credit to me, I repeat again I never saw that ad. I am not in a position to say or to have said that Mr. Eisler was ever framed by anybody.
Mr. WALTER. Why did these Communists have Communist-front organizations and feel that they could use your name without consulting you ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't believe that they did, often. In this connection, I am reasonably certain they asked me. I think several places, that there were several organizations where my name is used without my recollection.
Mr. WALTER. Why is it that your name is always used when it was used, in connection with Communist-front and Communist movements ? 2354 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BLANKFORT. That is a good question, and I have tried to thrash this thing out with myself. I think I was lazy, intellectually lazy. Sir, since I was a writer, since I was not a journalist, in which my views would have appeared in daily comment on the things that were happening around me, my only expression was verbal.
Mr. WALTER. B cause of these verbal expressions, these leftwingMr. BLANKFORT. On the contraryMr. WALTER. Left-wing organizations thought they could use your name?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No; on the contrary; quite on the contrary. My verbal expressions; that is, in trying to describe an independent attitude which I had-ever since I was a mature person my independence was not so much in terms of organizations, although I belonged to. organizations and participated in anti-Communist groups; nevertheless, my total anti-Communist expression, or critical expression, was verbal.
Mr. WALTER. Then you feel that it was because of your anti-Communist expressions that the Communist organizations used your name?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; I said about that that I was intellectually lazy. Someone would ask me would I join the Civil Rights Congress, and I just didn't go and say "Well, let me see who is connected with it? What does it stand for?"
Mr. WALTER. You want us to believe, then, that you were asked to> join the Civil Rights Congress because of your anti-Communist expressions?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; I am sorry. I didn't say that at all. I didn't mean to say that.
Mr. WALTER. I think that is what it adds up to.
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; I didn't mean that at all. I was talking of two different things. I am not sure but what General Carlson was a member of the Civil Rights Congress, and I am not certain but what I joined just on his say-so. You have the record of the national sponsorship there; I don't. But, if it were General Carlson, I guess I would have followed him without question at all.
Mr. WALTER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr TAVE NNER. Well, were you not also a member of the Committee for the First Amendment ? Or were you not a sponsor of it ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Whether I was a sponsor or not, I would have been a sponsor, and I certainly would have been a member. I believe that the Committee for the Frst Amendment had a good point. This committee was the broadest, widest committee one could possibly get in Hollywood. I don't know-were there Communist Party members on that committee?
Mr. JACKSON. There were Communist Party members on almost every committee formed at that time.
Mr. TAVENNFR. InI your first examination by the committee, in April of 1951, you stated that you supported the Committee for the First Amendment. I do not know whether you meant that you were a member of the committee and took part in its activities or not. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2355 
Mr. BLANKFORT. No; I had no-I don't believe I ever attended a aneeting of the Committee for the First Amendment, but I supported it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who solicited your support?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I think it was an ad put out in the Hollywood Reporter, and asking people to join and contribute money. There was going to be a national broadcast, I believe, and I sent in $25 or whatever it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me show you a photostatic copy of the original statement of the Committee for the First Amendment, and its original signers, and that may be the advertisement you were speaking of I
Mr. BLANSFORT. Did this appear in the Hollywood Reporter? Maybe Phil Dunn asked me. I think I was at his studio at the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the photostatic copy in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 10."
Mr. WALTER. Mark it and let it be received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 10," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. If you will examine it, please, I think you will see that your name appears there as a sponsor. (Mr. Blankfort consults document.)
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who asked you to become a sponsor?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, on this list, any one of these people could have asked me. Bob Ardrey could have asked me. It depended on what studio I was working at at the time. It may have been Ardrey. It may have been Dunn. It may have been a man named Gomberg. It may have been-I don't know. I don't know who asked me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, after looking at the exhibit, you are convinced that you did become a sponsor of it; are you not ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir; I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me read to you the opening statement: We the undersigned, as American citizens who believe in constitutional demo-cratic government, are disgusted and outraged by the continuing attempt of the House Committee on Un-American Activities to smear the motion-picture industry. Do you believe that the efforts of this committee to expose the Communist infiltration into the moving-picture industry constituted a smear of that industry ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Was it this committee that this refers to, this pres-ent committee ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Of course, that is dated, as you will see, 1947.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Then it wasn't this committee. I mean it had the same name, but it wasn't the committee which is presently constituted.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is the same regardless of tlie membership of it. A corporation doesn't go out of existence because the board of directors are changed.
Mr. BLANKFORT. This is the only committee I know. I don't have to tell you, Mr. Tavenner, what the opinion of Hollywood was about the earlier 1947 committee. I don't want to go into details as to the activities. 2356 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not asking you to make any comparisons that may be in your mind, but I do want to know whether you think it was smeared.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Whether I think Hollywood was smeared ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, in light of the evidence as you now know it.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, "smear" is a word which is a color word. Certainly it has not helped Hollywood. I don't mean that the committee has had anything to do with it, but the fact that it has come out that people in the moving-picture industry have been Communist Party members certainly is not helpful.
Mr. TAVENNER. But that is not a smear of it.
Mr. BLANKFORT. No; it is not a smear of it. It is a fact. These are the facts, and it is unfortunate for Hollywood.
Mr. WALTER. Do you not think that this committee would have been derelict in its duty if it did not expose the machinations of these Communists ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I think it would have been. I think this is the function of your committee, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why did you permit the use of your name as a sponsor of a committee which was organized to try to destroy the work of this committee ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, again, you force me to make the perhaps invidious comparison there are committees and there are committees. There is a way of handling interrogation, and a different way. I don't feel for myself-and I am glad to take this opportunity-that I have been under any pressure. I don't feel that I have been a victim of any kind of unfair questioning. I am not certain that that would have been true of the earlier committee. I am not an authority on that. But nevertheless that was our impression. It was our impression, and Hollywood, as perhaps one man, was under the same impression of that earlier committee. And that is why, if we look at the list, it contains the names of the foremost people in Hollywood. Now, we could all perhaps have been wrong about it, but that was our feeling at the time.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. WALTER. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. In the light of what has developed in the interim, do you still feel that the Committee for the First Amendment was performing a worth-while function, or do you feel that in light of what has developed it was being largely used by Communists, some of whom came here for the express purpose of smearing the committee?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Jackson, as I said before, I was not an active member of this committee, but I did speak to some of the active members of this committee much later. And I found out, to my amazement, which I had not known before, that the active members of the committee had tried to persuade those 10 men from pleading as they did. They tried to get them to cooperate with the committee. I hadn't known this. As I say, I didn't know this, and I think that is answer to your question. I don't think that the Committee for the First Amendment knew the total picture. I think that today if you went over that list COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2357 perhaps 95 percent of them would say that they had been misled in their efforts. I personally believe that the men who came up before the committee in 1947 were wrong. I didn't believe that at the time, but I believe they were wrong in taking the attitude they did.
Mr. WALTER. Do you not think that perhaps they were misled by those people who were afraid of an investigation, whose own guilty consciences dictated to them that they should take steps in order to prevent a disclosure of their activities?
Mr. BLANKFORT. That is certainly possible.
Mr. JACKSON. The activities of the previous committee, after all, was the opening gun in an investigation which was to disclose the presence of a highly organized, well-integrated group of Communists in Hollywood. I think that that is historically on the record today to the satisfaction of everyone, even those who at the time said "There is no organized Communist movement in Hollywood. There may be a few individuals running around who are doing no damage; but, as far as organized communism is concerned, there isn't any. The activities of this committee through the years has proven quite the contrary: that there was a very effective organization. I agree with the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Mr. Walter, when he says that much of the furor created by the Committee for the First Amendment was furor created in self-defense by others who had not been subpenaed before the committee, but who had every reason to believe that as the time went by they would be subpenaed. Many have subsequently been.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that you also joined in an amicus curiae brief to the Supreme Court on behalf of Dalton Trumbo and John Howard Lawson. Is that true?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes; it is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the circumstances under which your assistance in that matter was obtained ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. As I remember it, I got a letter asking for my support. It was signed, I believe, by a professor at the University of California, or Stanford. His name was Max Radin.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name, please ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. R-a-d-i-n. All I knew of Max Radin was that he was-in references in books and so on-a very distinguished constitutional lawyer, or a constitutional authority. I don't think he practiced law. This was a constitutional point. It was raised in the minds of people that the question of the proceedings was a constitutional and moot point, and that is why I signed it.
Mr. WALTER. Do you suppose that the eminent professor wrote that letter because he knew of your anti-Communist utterances?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Sir, he didn't know me, and I am sorry that IMr. WALTER. Why do you suppose lie wrote to you asking for your support? 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Sir, I was under the impression that he wrote to everybody. I think he wrote to everyone.
Mr. WALTER. By "everybody" you mean whom? 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I mean that he probably got a list of the subscribers to the Nation and the New Republic. He probably got a list of the members of the Screen Actors' Guild or Screen Directors' 2358 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Guild. I am not charging that he did. When you ask me everybody, I-Mr. WALTER. That is what you said. That is the reason I asked you.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes. I would say that everybody in Hollywood, including those who wouldn't have signed the amicus curiae brief under any circumstances, received it. I know, I believe, that at the time I was interrogated by Mr. Wheeler that my own attorney had received a letter. I think Professor Radin got the lists, the public lists of everybody and sent it out.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you have informed the committee prior to this that as a member of the American Veterans' Committee you supported a resolution to deprive members of the Communist Party from membership in the American Veterans' Committee.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir; that is true. I was an active member of the Beverly Hills Chapter of the American Veterans' Committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. When?
Mr. BLANKFORT. From its inception to its dissolution, the dates, probably from 1946 to 1948. A resolution had been submitted to instruct our delegates to the national conference as to whether they would support an anti-Communist resolution in the national organization. I not only spoke in favor of it, in support of an anti-Communist resolution, but I think that I swung it. I spoke at great length. The reason, you might be interested to know, why I supported an anti-Communist resolution was brought out earlier by Mr. Walter, I believe, that I believed in the objectives of the American Veterans' Committee, and therefore wanted to drive out the Communists because they would only confuse the issue. They would make it difficult for the American Veterans' Committee to fulfill its objectives, which I thought were good.
Mr. TAvENNER. Well, now, at the same time you were a member of the Screen Writers' Guild; were you not?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. But in the Screen Writers' Guild you did not take the same position with regard to Communists; did you?
Mr. BLANKFORT. The issue never came up. I will tell you what I did do in the Screen Writers' Guild. I have never been an active member of the Screen Writers' Guild. That is, I served on the board, I think, 10 or 11 years ago for 6 months. I never made a speech, as far as I can recall, on the floor of the guild. But I was nominated recently, 2 years ago. My nomination speech, which did not win me the-I had to make it myself, not nominate myself, but I had to say what I stood for-which did not win me the election, was that when I am on that guild the board, if I am on the guild board, I would vote for those things that I considered to best represent the guild as a whole. Now, practically everyone else right and left had a partisan view of what they would do. The issue about driving the Communists out of the Screen Writers' Guild was not sharply brought before the guild. If you ask me whether I would support such a resolutionwhich you haven't, but I will tell you-I would not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why would you not support such a resolution in the Screen Writers' Guild when you did support a similar resolution in the Veterans' Committee ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2359 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Because one has to do with the question of whether a man can earn a living, and the other doesn't. We have a 100-percent guild shop now; so, if you are not in the Screen Writers' Guild, you don't work.
Mr. TAVENNER. I see. Were you affiliated with the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions, at any time? Let me show you a photostatic copy of a letter of the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. I believe your name appears there as one of the signers. Does that refresh your recollection?
Mr. BLANKFORT. You mean to say if I have ever seen this letter before ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No; I mean whether examination of that letter refreshes your recollection to the point where you can state definitely whether you were affiliated with the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I think I was, but I have no recollection of this letter.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the letter in evidence and ask that it be marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 11."
Mr. WAITER. Mark it and it will be received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 11," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. You will notice that there appears, if you examine the article again, please, that it is directed to the Members of the Eighty-first Congress.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And it uses this language: The Eighty-first Congress can and must abolish the Committee on Un-American Activities. Will you examine the document again and state what the date is?
Mr. BLANKFORT. There is no date on it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee who solicited your signature to that letter ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No one. I never saw this letter before now.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not recall permitting the use of your name?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a signer? 
Mr. BLANKFORT. Not to my recollection. This was sent from New York. What was the date?
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1948, December 1948.
Mr. BLANKFORT. To the best of my recollection, I never saw this letter before now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Aside from the fact that you may never have seen it, did you authorize the use of your name ? 1
Mr. 3LANKFORT. Not to my recollection.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a signatory to the letter?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir; not to my recollection; no, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Did you advocate the abolition of this committee at that time?
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me see it again, now.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Sir? I beg your pardon? 2360 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY
Mr. WALTER. Did you advocate the abolition of this committee at that time?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I advocated a change in procedure. That was my chief criticism.
Mr. WALTER. Was that because you were fearful that the committee would continue its investigation of Hollywood?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No; I don't think I was fearful that the committee would continue its investigation. I was fearful that the investigation would not be fair, let us say, or reasonable.
Mr. TAVENNER. Attached to the letter which I handed you is an article, a photostatic copy of an article appearing in the Daily Worker of December 29, 1948, which says: A group of distinguished writers, clergymen, actors, and other notables, called upon the Eighty-first Congress to abolish the Un-American Activities Committee. The request was made in a statement released by the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. Signers of the statement included- and giving the list of names, a person by the name of Michael Blankfort.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Doesn't that come from the same list?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; the same list refers to the same incident.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. But I want you to look at the article from the Daily Worker and state whether or not you saw that article.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I can answer that without looking at it. I never saw the article. I have never seen the Daily Worker.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, as far as the use of your name in that particular article is concerned, or the article referred to, it was done without your permission?
Mr. BLANKFORT. To the best of my knowledge, yes.
Mr. WALTER. Have you ever seen the article before ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. What do you propose to do now that your name has been used without authority to find out why people had the temerity to use your name without permission ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't think these organizations are still in existence. If they were I would write them a letter and tell them, and express my view on this.
Mr. JACKSON. You can write the Hollywood Chapter of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. It is still in existence.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. They are still in existence.
Mr. BL NKFORT. I have. I cannot tell you the date, but I perhaps could find out when I did and resigned from my membership. Has that committee ever been classed subversive?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, it has been. The National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions was cited as a Communist front by the Committee on Un-American Activities on April 26, 1950. The Hollywood chapter is an affiliate of that national organization.
Mr. BLANKFORT. You understand, Mr. Tavenner, I did not say I had not been a member.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand that.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't want that to-I think you understand better than I do that when you are a member of an organization, I never COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2361 understood that they would have to have special permission to use your name for any function of that organization. I don't want it-Mr. TAVENNER. I am very much surprised to hear you state that, because I don't see how anyone could be assumed to have agreed to the use of his name in any project in which an organization may be interested without permission. I have never heard that advanced before.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I didn't think I was advancing original theory.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think a great many of the names of people were used without permission, but this is the first time I have ever heard it suggested that the mere joining of the organization was tantamount to a consent to use the individuaPs name in matters of this kind without specific permission. I show you a photostatic copy of a program of the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace held in New York City in March 1949. Your name appears as one of the sponsors. I desire to offer the copy in evidence and ask that it be marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 12."
Mr. WALTER. It may be marked and received. (The document referred to, marked "Blankfort Exhibit No. 12," is filed herewith.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee who received your sponsorship of that group, if you actually sponsored it?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes. I have a recollection about this. This took place in March 1949, I believe, that was your date, March 1949. I was in Israel. I wasn't present. The only specific recollection I have is that I received a letter asking for my permission, and I did not give it. As I remember the letter a card was enclosed, I am not certain, "Will you sponsor or give permission"-or whatever the thing is for-"this conference." I know I got the letter before I left, or on my way to Europe, and I did not give permission for my name to be used.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Blankfort, you stated in the early part of your testimony in effect that the pattern of your conduct had been such as to show that you could not have been or were not a member of the Communist Party at the time that Mr. Budenz testified you were, and that you could not have or did not go to Hollywood for the purpose of looking into Communist activities out there. You have testified here about your membership in many Communistfront organizations in Hollywood.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Sir, I was the front in the Communist organization, that is clear, that is very clear. Parallel with these activities, as I pointed out and as you pointed out, were other activities. I was a member of organizations which had taken decided stands against Communists: The American-Jewish Congress, the B'nai B'rith, the American Veterans' Committee. My whole life has been one of independent radicalism. I suppose radicalism is the word for it. I am not a party joiner. It is apparent that I am an organization joiner. That is apparent. One of the thingsMr. TAVENNER. It is pretty hard to differentiate between the two at times, is it not? 2362 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. 13LANKFORT. I don't believe, I really don't believe it is, because when one joins an organization the general purposes seem to catch you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any occasion other than the time that you said Mr. Martin Berkeley solicited, or I believe you said the two times that Mr. Martin Berkeley solicited your membership in the party, that other persons solicited you to join the party?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Well, as I said before, in the early thirties-what I said before to Mr. Walter has a point here-and I was not clear before-that one of the reasons why I didn't get the solicitation that one would assume I would have was because verbally in social groups I had for so long taken an anti-Communist Party position that if there were Communist Party people there they knew where I stood. That is the point. You probably don't-were you listening to met
Mr. TAVENNER. I did not hear all of what you said. I was conferring with the investigator.
Mr. BLANKFORT. What I referred to in talking to Congressman Walter was that I had in circles, at social gatherings, I had always been critical and outspoken about my anti-Communist position. I had always been critical of the Communist Party. That is why people didn't come and ask me to join the Communist Party, because it was obvious where I stood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. But your activities were so closely attached to the Communist Party that it is difficult to understand how you could have been so vocal in opposing the Communist Party, and yet so close to the Communist Party in your conduct of your activities.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Mr. Tavenner, these organizations were not brought to my attention as Communist organizations and under the circumstances, one joins them. Now, one learns, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then in the final analysis you are saying that you are not now and never have beenMr. BLANKFORT. Never have been.
Mr. TAVENNER. A member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Exactly.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Blankfort, can you assign any possible reason for the testimony given by Mr. Budenz before this committee on January 15?
Mr. BLANKFORT. You mean do I have a theory as to why he testified this way ?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. Why would Mr. Budenz, in your opinion, say that? Could it have grown, perhaps, out of a personal disagreement? Have you ever had a personal disagreement with Mr. Budenz? (Representative Harold H. Velde reentered the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. BLANKIFORT. No. If the sense of your question is that this could have been a personal matter, no.
Mr. JACKSON. Because the situation with which the committee is confronted is that of a positive identification on the one hand and a positive denial on the other up to this moment. Did you know Michael Gold to be a member of the Communist Party ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2363 
Mr. BLANKFORT. I sure assumed that he was. I may add at this point that Michael Gold told me never to join the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. That is recruitment in reverse. Have you ever made any public statement, or have you ever repudiated the use of your name by any of these several organizations with which you were alleged to have been associated, or to have sponsored ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. You mean, did I ever call the press andMr. JACKSON. Well, the press or any group, or did you, for instance, ever tell the Beverly Hills AVC that your name was used by such-andsuch an organization, and that you were not a member of the organization ?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I may have told personal friends.
Mr. JACKSON. But you have never made a public pronouncement to that effect?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, I cannot say that I ever did make a public announcement, if by public you meant in the public press.
Mr. JACKSON. That would be one method, yes, probably the most logical method to us.
Mr. BLANKFORT. You are talking about specific organizations.
Mr. JACKSON. The organizations which have been mentioned here today. Did you know Gerhart Eisler?
Mr. BLANKFORT. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you feel, Mr. Blankfort, that in light of the identification made before the committee by Mr. Budenz, and in the light of the many suspect groups with which you have been associated, that the committee was doing the proper thing in asking you to appear before it to explain the situation?
Mr. BLXNKFORT. I certainly do, I appreciate the opportunity.
Mr. JACKSON. You used the word "smeared" in connection with the previous committees that antedated this one. Do you know anyone who has been smeared by this committee either now or in times past?
Mr. BLANKFORT. This present committee; no, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. I am speaking of the committee generally. I would like to know who has been unjustly accused. If that accusation still stands, I am sure the committee would want to give him an opportunity to affirm or deny the allegations that resulted in the smear.
Mr. BLANKFORT. As I understand it, this committee has checked the names before it has called them, called the people before the committee. To call the man before the committee who has no real business being before the committee, that might be considered a smear.
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, but who'? I want to know the names.
Mr. BLANKFOT. I don't know. You are asking me the names?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, I am asking you for the name of anyone who has been unjustly accused before this committee.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't think anybody has as far as I know of this committee.
Mr. JACKSON. By this committee I am also talking of its predecessors. I should like to know whether the House Committee on UnAmerican Activities actions has smeared anyone. I think it is a very important matter. 
Mr. WALTER. It is extremely important, because we have spent a great deal of time in executive session endeavoring to put up the safe- 2364 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY guards that will protect anybody from any unjust intimation, even, and that is why Mr. Jackson's question is so very important to those of us in the committee who have tried so hard for so long to protect people that are entitled to protection.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I believe you have. I don't believe this committee has smeared anybody, and Mr. Jackson asks me about preceding committees, and I am caught on the word "smear," because I cannot bring to mind the name of anybody who was brought before even the preceding committees who, in the long run-perhaps not at first-but in the long run there was justification for it. The word "smear" is a color word again. And I guess what it has meant is that men have lost their jobs just on the announcement of the subpena.
Mr. VELDE. I think the gentleman from California used the words "unjustly accused," too. What would you say about that?
Mr. BLANKFORT. I don't think anybody who was brought before the committee has been unjustly accused. You have hadMr. WALTER. We have not accused anybody of anything. When these witnesses have been subpenaed it is because we have every reason to believe they possess information that will aid us in letting the American people see to what extent this Communist conspiracy has gone in our society.
Mr. BLANKFORT. Yes, sir; I realize that. I don't say that-Mr. WALTER. We do not accuse anybody of anything.
Mr. BLANKFORT. I agree with you. I haven't said that you have.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, my question naturally sprung from the fact that your name was associated with a petition, or with a letter which accused the committee of having smeared individuals. And I have asked a great many witnesses, and of course the unfriendly ones snarl, and the friendly ones say, "No, I don't know of anyone that was smeared," but the word is still used. The Daily Worker, and all of the Communist press and some people who should know better still fling the charge that the committee is smearing. To the best of my knowledge, I don't know of anyone being smeared, and I am still trying to find the name of one so he may avail himself of the opportunity to come forward and say in what manner he has been smeared. If any name occurs to you after you leave here I wish you would let us know. When did you disassociate yourself from the ASP, Arts, Sciences and Professions?
Mr. BLANKFORT. Probably 1948 or 1949, I don't know. It must have been 1948.
Mr. JACKSON. Was that the Hollywood council?
Mr. BLANKFORT. As far as I know. I never attended a meeting of the Hollywood group. And I think what happened was that I got a request for renewal of membership and said I wouldn't renew it. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2365 
Mr. WALTER. Do you have anything further, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. One question, please, sir. You stated that Michael Gold advised you not to become a member of the Communist Party. What were the circumstances of his giving you that advice?
Mr. BLANKFORT. The first time I met Michael Gold was probably when I got the manuscript of that play; and he just complained about the fact that lie was a writer, and any writer who is a member of the Communist Party was just insane. That is a recollection of many, many years.
Mr. TAVENNER. You know Michael Gold was a member; wasn't he?
Mr. BLANKIORT. He certainly was, from all appearances; and this goes into the psychology of people. He probably felt lack of personal freedom, of one kind or another, and lie just spoke against the party membership of anybody who wanted to be a writer.
Mr. TA ENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Is there any reason why the witness cannot be excused?
Mr. TAXENNNER. NO.
Mr. WALTER. Very well. We appreciate your cooperation, and it is only because of the willingness of people like you to come here and give us a full statement of the facts as you know them that we are able to point up to the American people the danger of this conspiracy. We are deeply appreciative of your efforts to assist us. The witness is excused from further attendance.
Mr. T.AVENNER. Mr. Bassman.
Mr. WALTER. Will you raise your right hand, please? Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BASSMAN. I do.
Mr. WALTER. Be seated, please. TESTIMONY OF GEORGE BASSMAN
