Miss POSKA. Judith Poska. fr. WHEELER. Where were vou born, Miss Poska?
Miss PosKA . I was born in Montana-Utica. M[r. JACKSON. May I, Mr. Chairman, ask a question at this point? I notice the witness is not accompanied by counsel. It is the pr'ctice of the committee to allow witnesses to be accompanied by counsel if the witness so desires, and I should like to have it appear in the record that you have been informed of this fact and also to inquire whether or not you desire counsel.
Miss PosKA. Well, I didn't because I can only tell the truth.
Mr. JACKSON. Very well; but I felt it should appear in the record that you have the privilege of counsel if you so desire. 2 Ordered released by the committee August 7, 1956. 5775 5776 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. I think that is well, Mr. Jackson. Are you perfectly willing to go ahead and testify?
Miss PosKA. Oh, certainly.
Mr. WHEELER. You are appearing as a voluntary witness; is that correct?
Miss PoSKA. I am; that is right.
Mr. WuHEELE. What is your educational background?
Miss PosiA. I graduated from public school in Seattle. And I went into the Curtis Institute of Music when I was 12, and I had private tutors there. I studied French and English and things that go along with when you are young and you are taken out of public school; when you concentrate on a profession or a career, why, they have you study, make up your studies. You study English and that sort of thing.
Mr. WHEELER. The Curtis InstituteMis PosKA. Is a musical institute, a school of music; yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Are you a musician by occupation?
Miss PosKA. Yes; I am.
Mr. WHEELER. Are you pursuing that occupation at the present time?
Miss PosxA. Yes.
Mr. WaEaLR. Miss Poska, during our hearings here in Los Angeles beginning on the 16th of April a former member of the Communist Party, Don Christlieb, stated in the course of his testimony that he knew you as a member of the Communist Party. Now, subsequent to his identification of you, I believe you became aware of his identification and notified the committee by telegram that you had not been a member of the Communist Party; and I contacted you on the basis of that telegram.
Miss PosA. That is right.
Mr. WHEELER. And you desire to come before the committee and straighten out the record?
Miss PoswA. That is correct.
Mr. WHELLER. Will you proceed with what you wish to say.
Miss POSA. What you say is absolutely true. It was during the war and I think Russia had been in the war, oh, I don't know how long; but, anyway, all of us, all of my friends and myself included, were very anti-Nazi and anti-Fascist; and playing around, why, I heard a lot of talk about the Marxist theory and how valiant the Russians were, and so on and so forth; and I didn't know from nothing about Marx or the Russian Revolution-I knew that it had occurred-so I thought it would be interesting, out of curiosity, to find out what Marx had to offer, what his theory was; because everyone was talking about it, and I seemed rather stupid to me. Anyway, subsequently Mischa Altman contacted me and invited me to go to meetings. Of course, at that time the Communist Party was a recognized party, it was on the ballot, et cetera; nothing was thought about it. However, I went to a few-I can't remember how many I went to because I didn't go regularly, for which they were pretty upset at me, plus the fact that when I did go to a meeting I never knew my COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 5777 lesson. I had other things to do, I wasn't married, and if I wanted to go out on a date, I went regardless of the meeting; and they wanted to know why I wasn't there and where-I figured it wasn't any of their business. I was free, white, and 21; and I was going to-I didn't think that I should be regimented, and I didn't like regimentation.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you place this in the context of a time? What was the time period?
Miss PosKA. You know, I don't remember. It must have been 1942 or 1943.
Mr. AVSYKELER. If I may intercede for a moment, the records of the Communist Party of Los Angeles County show that she was a member of the beginners' class in the year 1944.
Miss POSKA. Was it then 194-?
Mr. WHLELER. If that would help clarify it.
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. I wanted to place this in its proper time period.
Miss Posst. It was long ago and I had forgotten it, and I wasn't enough interested to--you know, so it was 1944. So I was-I was there, and I didn't go to meetings regularly, and I was reprimanded and I didn't like it; and being religious-I am not fanatical, but I go to church, and I like to go; if I want to go, I go; if I don't want to go, I don't go. But, by the same token, I don't want someone to tell me not to go, any more than I want someone to tell me I am to go. I am free, and when my basic liberties are jeopardized, I don't like it at all.
Mr. WHEELER. You were criticized for going to church by this group of people?
Miss PosK_. Well, it wasn't recommended. I mean, it wasn't the thing to do, you know. They frowned upon it.
Mr. WHEELER. When I interviewed you last month there was some doubt in your mind whether you actually joined the Communist Party.
Miss PosKA. To my knowledge, I didn't. I must have, but if they have me down maybe I signed something. If I did, I certainly wasn't aware of it at the time. That is how stupid I was.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you pay dues?
Miss Posi-c. No; I didn't. That is one thing, I was supposed to give-I don't know how much, a certain percentage, I don't know exactly the percentage of everything I made; and I inquired as to why. Well, it went into the party.
Mr. JACKSON. Who instructed you that you were supposed to give a certain portion of your earnings?
Miss PosKA. Well, if I remember, Altman. He was always at the meetings.
Mr. JACKSON. How did you meet Mr. Altman?
Miss PossA. He was a musician, and we worked together a long, long, time ago when I first came to Los Angeles. I had known him for many years.
Mr. JACKSON. When would that have been? here
Miss POSKA. I first came to Los Angeles in 1932. I had been have to give him A for about a year when I met him, I believe; but I worked on me effort. They really worked on me, but the more they the less I liked it. attended? you
Mr. WHEELER. How many meetings would you say 5778 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Miss POSXA. Mir. Wheeler, I don't remember. I might have gone to a dozen, I might have gone to 10. I really-there weren't too many.
Mr. Wrnsarxa. Would you say you were connected with this group for a period of 6 months or less?
Miss POSKA. I'd say 6 months, maybe. Maximum, 6 months
Mr. WIEELER. Over that period of time, did you attend approximately 12 meetings? Mi s POSXA. Well, I'l say. I never did keep track, but it !ould have been very easily.
Mr. WHELER. Mr. Doyle, I have no further questions concerning the activities of this witness.
Mr. DOi-LE. Do you, Mr. .fackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. I should like to discuss the meetings a little further. Where were the meetings held which you attended?
Miss POSKA. They were always at a different place in a privatesomeone's private home.
Mr. JACKSON. Whose home?
Miss PosKA. That I don't even remember, because they were always in someone's-some different person's place. They weren't musicians, because that I would remember. We were never at Christlieb's house. I think once we went to Altman's place-we met at Altman's place; and I don't even remember where he was living at the time. I do eIember very distinctly that I was supposed to go to one place and I got lost. It was quite far away from where I was living, and I finally gave up and went home. I was disgusted with the whole business.
Mr. JTcKsoNr. During your attendance at these 8 or 10 meetings, who elae attended these meetings, in addition to yourself? MISS POSKA. .S a nile, Altman was always there, Christheb some of tIme time, and then they were made up of, not musicians, but, oh, there would be radio actors and people from the arts and sciences in the different fields; maybe one would be a photographer. I know that once-oh, do yon remember I told you who was there, a writer in these erv well-john Howard Lawson was there at one meeting.
Mr..,ixAisoN. And who else?
Miss PosEa. As I say, there were always very different, as a rule a different group, and I couldn't name you them because I don't remember, and they weren't musicians. Ah. JxcmwsoN. You attended 8 or 10 or 12 meetings over a period of some months, during which time, and to the best of your knowledge, nit can remember only MNr.Lawson and Mr. Altman and Mr Christlieb?
Miss POSKA. Yes; and I think once or twice Mrs. Christlieb was there.
Mr. JAcxsoN. How were you notified as to where you were to go to the(e meetings? How did you receive word on that? MIss POSKA. Either Altman-usually Altman called me, or I think once or twice Christlieb called me.
Mr. JACKSON. They would tell you that the meeting was to be held in such and such a person's house?
Miss POSKA. Much and such address. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 5779 
Mr. JACKSoN. Such and such address, and without further identification of whose address it was?
Miss PoseA. That is right.
Mr. JACKSON. And under the compulsion of your oath, are you prepared to say that you cannot now remember any other persons than the 3 you have named, or the 4, including Mrs. Christlieb?
Miss POSKA. Not by name, no, I can't. If I could, I certainly would tell you. 
Mr. JACKSON. If not by name, can you identify any of these persons in any other way?
Miss POSKA. No, except that, as I say, I know that there would be an actor or sometimes I lmow that I would hear mention of photography and studio work, and they were from the-I take it for granted they were from the arts and sciences; but musicians, I never-the only ones that I saw I mentioned.
Mr. JAcKsox. Did you know any of the actors?
Miss POSKA. They weren't well known, no. They weren't big names, because those I would remember.
Mr. JAcKsoN. When did you terminate your association with the Communist Party?
Miss POSKA. Well, I can't tell you exactly. It wasn't very long; I mean, that I stopped completely going to meetings. When I stopped going to meetings they stopped speaking to me, too. MT. JACKSON. Was any effort made to get you to return to the party ?
Miss PosKA. No. No, they didn't. They just ignored me.
Mr. JAcKwou. By "they," I suppose you mean the four persons you mentioned?
Miss POSKA. Christliebs and the Altmans.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Wheeler, is this substantially borne out by the Christlieb testimony?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. What is your present occupation?
Miss PosKA. I am a musician. I play my violin and I am also in the real-estate business.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you now engaged professionally in the music field?
Miss POSKA. Well, I do free-lance work. I am not under contract.
Mr. JACKSON. I have nothing more, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WHEELER. As the record stands, Miss Poska, I believe you do not deny that you were a member of the Communist Party, nor do you admit you were a member of the Communist Party. Is that correct?
Miss POSKA. To my knowledge I wasn't, but I must have been if they say that I was in the student class or the beginners' class or whatever it was.
Mr. WHEELER. It would stand to reason if they asked you for a percentage of your salaryMiss POSKA. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. I mean, they must have considered you as a member of their group ?
Miss PoSKA. They must have. of your
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask this: Did you pay some percentage salary 77436-56--Pt 11-3 5780 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Miss POSKA. Oh, never a penny.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you ever distribute any literature in the group?
Miss POlKA. No; I didn't.
Mr. DOYLE. Or buy any literature?
Miss Posia. No. Whatever literature Iliad, they gave me to read; which I neverMr. DoYL. When you went to the meetings, with whom did you go?
Miss POSE k. I went by myself.
Mr. DOYLE. Did Mr. Lawson speak at that one meeting-if you remember?
Miss PosKA. Well, he sort of conducted the group.
Mr. ),YLE. What did you do to leave the group? AhI, PosK_ . What did I do?
Mr. DoyrE. Yes. MUss POSKA. I just quit going. I just stopped going to meetings.
Mr. DOYLE. Did Mr. Altman ask you to come back?
Miss POSKA. No, sir. They would tell me-they called me and would say, "Well, there is a meeting at such and such an address": and I'd say, "Well, I don't think I can make it"; and I didn't go; and that was it.
Mr. DOYLE. They must have given you a membership card if they considered you a member.
Miss POSKA. No; I never got a membership card.
Mr. DOYLE. Did they give you any name other than your own to use?
Miss POSKA. No.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you have the testimony here of the person who identified her?
Mr. WHEELER. No, sir; I do not. It was transcribed by reporters from Washington, D. C., and taken to Washington, D. C. I night mention, Mr. Doyle, that I have been advised that the records of the Communist Party disclose Miss Poska as a very unsatisfactory member. She was dropped by the Communist Party.
Mr. DOYLE. Can you help us to understand what there was about the Communist group that constrained you to leave it?
Miss POSKA. I don't like regimentation, Mr. Doyle, in any way, shape, or form. I don't like it and I won't have it. I am free and I am going to stay that way.
Mr. DOYLE. Did they discuss at any of the meetings at which you were present, the matter of the relationship between our own Nation and Russia? What was the discussion? That is, the different philosophies of govermnent.
Miss POSKA. We were supposed to study Marx, and I was supposed to read it, snd we were supposed to know our lessons when we went there; but I never knew mine, and it was-of course, it was anti- capitalmst, ad I couldn't see anything wrong with our capitalistic so far, is the best I know of. systein. I think it,
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, you mentioned you never knew your lesson. Then you had a book on Marxism that you didn't study too much. You must have had a book for your lesson.
Miss PosKA. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you buy that book?
Miss POsKA. No, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 5781 
Mr. DOYLE. How many books on Marxism were you supposed to read' Hiss PosKA. I don't know, but I never even got through that one because I wasn't interested.
Mr. DOYLE. I wonder, was there any discussion at all of our own Government?
Miss POSKA. No, not to my knowledge.
Mr DOYLE. As compared with the Marxist theory?
Miss POSKA. No.
Mr. DOYLE. Any eriticii of our form of Government? '1uss POSKA. No. I wouldn't say there was when I started-when I was going to the meetings. They always, of course, stressed, naturally, that the workers should-in Russia what they are, and we are a capitalistic system; and that was better, they thought; and that is where I parted company also.
Mr. DoYLE. On the matter of the literature; you say you do not know how many books on Marxism you had, but evidently you did not hia ve vour lesson in one of them?
Miss PosxA. I didn't have them in anything they gave me. After I quit going to meetings, I threw them in the incinerator.
Mr. DOYLE. But I am wondering, did you get into the realm of helping them; be the librarian?
Miss PosxA. No.
Mr. DOYLE. Or distribute any of the literature? Mbs POSIKA. No.
Mr. DoYLE. By repute, I know generally they do that with a begiinoer. lisc PosKA. No. I neverMr. DOYLE. Who was the treasurer of the group? There must have been someone who was announced as treasurer. H1i- PosKa. Altman, he was collecting. When anybody gave money for anything, why he collected it. They gave it to him.
Mr. DOYLE. Didn't Mr. and Mrs. Altman once in a while pick you up and go with you? -MissPosxx. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Or you with him?
Miss PoswA. No, sir.
Mr. DoYLE. Who, then, was the chairman of the group if Altman was the collector of dues? Who was the chairman of it?
Miss PosKA. Well, he conducted the meetings. M[r. DOYLE. Mischa Altman did?
Miss POSKA. Yes. M1r. DoYLr. And he collected the money, too? Ji-s POSKA. Yes. Air. DOYLE. Generally w-ho phoned you as to where the meeting was to be held?
Miss POSKA. It would be either Altman or Christlieb who would phone me. 
Mr. DOYLE. Is Mr. Christlieb the one who identified the witness as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. WjhEELER. Yes, sir. 5782 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DoYL. Did you just drop out or did you send a written resignation?
Miss POSKA. No, I just stopped. I just stopped going.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you ever see their filing system, card index, books, or records?
Miss POSiKA. I never did, no.
Mr. DOYLE. How many members were in your group? MISS POSKA. I don't know. At the meetings that I attended there wouldn't be more than 6 or 7. They were small.
Mr. DOYLE. Did the members participate in the discussion? You now were interested a little bit, at least. For instance, did you participate in the discussions, too, along with the rest of them?
Miss POSKA. No. I was a pretty good listener.
Mr. DOYLE. You did not have your lesson? MISS POSKA. I didn't. iMr. DOYLE. They criticized you because you did not have your lesson ?
Miss POSKA. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. So evidently you were expected to know your lesson?
Miss PosKiA. I was. I was supposed to have my lesson and I didn't.
Mr. JACKSON. Were these meetings which you attended closed meetings, or did you have the impression that you were free to bring with you anyone you AN-antedi to bring?
Miss PosiA. Well, I was never told that I could bring anyone and I never did take anyone; but I would-looking back on it, I would think that they were closed meetings.
Mr. JACKSON. I am not prompting you in this regard, but was it your impression that you could not simply have taken a friend with you to the meeting; is that a correct statement?
Miss POSKA. Well, that vas-that would be the impression.
Mr. JACKSON. And at no time were you asked to contribute or to pay dues or to make any contribution?
Miss POSKA. Well, yes, I was expected to give a certain percentage of everything I made.
Mr. JACKSON. And this you did not do? MISS POSIrA. I certainly didn't.
Mr. JACKSON. Was this remonstrated about by Mr. Altman or anyof the other members?
Miss PosRA. Well, when I inquired-you see, I always like to know where my money is going. When I inquired where it was going he said, "Well, to the Communist Party." And I said, "What for?" "Well," he said, "you are not supposed to ask." I said, "I figure it is my money, it is my privilege to know." So I said, "I don't feel like it."
Mr. JAcKsoNe. Have you followed the course of the recent hearings of this committee in Los Angeles?
Miss POSKA. Where the musicians were involved, I did.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you, during the course of those hearings, see the photograph or read the testimony of any person who was known to you either as a Communist or non- Communist?
Miss POSKA. Well, I wouldn't say-I couldn't say that an, one except Mr. Christlieb was to my knowledge a Communist. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 5783 
Mr. JACRsON. Yes. Had you previously known any others who testified during the course of those hearings?
Miss POSKA. There were a lot of musicians who testified that I know; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you know any of them to have been members of the Communist Party? MIss PoSeA. No. I was very amazed. I think I told you, Mr. Wheeler, that I was dumfounded at some of the names that I read, completely dumfounded.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, inasmuch as the witness is not accompained by counsel, I should like to ask one more question.
Mr. DOY-LE. Yes. 
Mr. J.kciiN. That is, whether or not you feel that your rights have been in any way abused by the subcommittee.
Miss PosirA. Here today? Mfr. JACKSON. Here today.
Miss PosrA. I should say not.
Mr. JAcKisox. And whether you have been in any way intimidated? MIss PosKx. Oh, no. Mfr. JACKSON. Or anything of that sort?
Miss PosKw. Oh, no.
Mr. J CKsoN. We so frequently meet with that charge. We like to have it in the record. I think, as a matter of fact, you probably feel much better for having gotten it off your chest.
Miss POsKA. I certainly do. I am very happy to have come down here this morning.
Mr. ,J.AcKsoN. I have no further questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Do ),ou feel that Mr. Wheeler, our investigator, has been perfectly fair t o you in his dealings with you?
Miss POSKA. He has been wonderful, and I consider him my friend.
Mr. JACKSON. We are glad to say that he is probably the man with the most "former Communist" friends of anyone we know.
Mr. WHEELEr. I would hke to ask if you have been to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Miss POSKA. Yes; I have.
Mr. DOYLE. I want to ask one more question. One of the purposes of this committee under Public Law 601 is to try to find, from former Coimnunists especiallyMis PoSw N. Oh, that stigma.
Mr. DOYLE. I asked it that way in view of your testimony, because you say vou must have been, even though you don't remember technically being a member. Have you any suggestion to make to the Congress of the United States in the field of how to get at the subversive activities? Was there anything subversive discussed in your presence? AliS POSKA. Never. MJr. DOYLE. Not in any way? 
Miss POSKA. No. there wasnt, Mr. Doyle, not a thing; because had there been, I would have been the first to go to the FBI, because we were at war and that was a very important thing to ine. I have con- sidered myself an American and a good one, and I shall always be; and anything subversive, believe me, I would be the first to-but nothing was ever subversive that was mentioned when I was going to matings. 5784 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. JACKsoN. The phrase "former Communist" has been mentioned, and I think it should be on the record that the committee and the country owes a very great debt of gratitude to former Communists who have seen it as their duty to come forward and tell the committee and the country what they know about it, having honestly and decisively broken with the Comiiist Party. So I do not, Mr. Chairman, consider that the term "former Communist" is anything but a term of approbation.
Mr. DOYE. I remember your testimony that at the time you were in that group we were at war. All of the time that you were in the group was Russia our ally?
Miss POSXA. Yes, it was.
Mr. DOYLE. However at that same period of time the group was being instructed of the difference between the Soviet system of government and our system as you described, capitalistic system?
Miss POSKA. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. I want to make it clear in my own thinking. Russia was our ally, but at that time the Communist leaders in your presence were contrasting the lSoviet system of government to ours. That leads me to think that there must have been a criticism of our form of ,government, because at least they were contrasting our form of government with theirs, with the Russian system. That was a period during whsch we were allied with Russia, and I am wondering to what extent that was the subject of discussion during the time we were an ally of Russia.
Miss PosKA. Well, as I said, I didn't go to subsequent meetings. I mean, I didn't go every single time there was a meeting; and from what I learned-I mean, there was-they advocated or they agreed with the Russian system that the government own everything; and individual wealth or individual holdings wasn't such in Russia. Otherwise, I mean, as far as anything subversiveMr. DOYLE. But it is interesting to me that during the time we were an ally with Russia, that there was a group of people who were evidently comparing, to the detriment of the capitalistic system which you have referred to-you said they used that term--evidently criticizing our form of government during the very time that they were an ally in a war against Mr. Hitler.
Miss PosxA. I mean, I never did see anything wrong with ourbest. system of government. I think, as I said before, I think it is the However, they, when there would be any discussion, would compare them. I don't say that they-well, they would criticize to a certain extent, but not to any great extent where I would consider it subversive insofar as tearing it down, by any means whatsoever.
Mr. DoYLE. Along what line did they discuss our being an ally of Russia?
Miss POSKA. Well, they were for it at that time.
Mr. DOYLE. Yes; but did they seem to express an appreciation of the fact that we were joining with Russia and that we were an ally of Russia?
Miss POSKA. They were very happy that we were allied with Russia.
Mr. DOYLE. And yet they did compare to the detriment of our own country, the capitalistic system, as compared with the Soviet system?
Miss POSmA. Well, that was the line at that time.
Mr. DOYLE. I have nothing further, Mr. Jackson. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 5785 
Mr. JACKSON. Just one more thing. I should like to point out to the witness, to the best of my recollection she has identified four people, and I say this in all good faith and for your own protection. You have already said under the compulsion of your oath that you cannot identify any other person who was associated with you at your meetings. I want to point out that if, subsequently, future witnesses may testify to the contrary, that a very real danger to you exists. I would not want you, out of any moral compunctions or for any reasons, to refrain from telling us if there are any more people with whom you were associated. I say that again. Mr. Chairman; I say this for the protection of the witness. M1. DOYLE. That is right.
Mr. J o noN. We have had circumstances in the past where witnesses for one reason or another felt that they should not disclose any names or some name; where subsequently it has developed that they were not tetifying in full good faith, which presents the committee with only one course of action, and that is to refer the testimony to the Attorney General of the United States. I simply ity that to you in order tl'it no,1 rDS out of the best of motives yoU mahr eonoeivably be withholding trom us the name or names of some ot the people with whom you were associated at that time.
Miss POSKA. No; I am not. I think-I have been thinking about this ever since Mr. Wheeler first interviewed me. Aid I tried Lo think and tried to think, and I just-if I knew or if I could think, I would certainly tell you.
Mr. JACKSON. Yes: I am sure that is the case. But I felt that I should, Mr. Chairman, place that in the record in order that it might be absolutely clear to her.
Miss POSKA. As I say, I have just told these gentlemen-I have been thinking ever since you first contacted me and we got together, I have been thinking and thinking back-whom, if anyone, I could remember who were at those meetings; and aside from the Altmans and the Christliebs, I just can't remember.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, we don't expect you, nor do we want you, to be at all uncertain or haphazard about it. We want the facts that are in your knowledge, and that is all. I have nothing further, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DoYLE. I think I recall in that connection, Miss Poska, your testimony is that there were only 6 or 8 people in the group.
Miss POSKA. That is right.
Mr. DornE. You have named 4 of them, so it would only be a matter of your telling who the other 2 or 3 were.
Mr. JACKsoN. Unless they were different people at different meetings.
Miss POSKA. At different times.
Mr. JACKSON. Which would substantially increase the number, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Dovax. How many totally different people would you say were in the group during the 8 or 10or 12 meetings you attended?
Miss POSKA. Almost every time there would be a different conglomeration of people.
Mr. DomiE. The Altmans and the Christliebs would make four. If the groups were not more numerous than 6 or 8 or 10, then you would 5786 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA only have at most 4 different people at each meeting. If these same four people attended.
Miss PoSiKs. Now, for instance, I wouldn't say that they were all four there at tile Same time, you see.
Mr. l)OYLE. I see.
Miss PosK s. They weren't always there together. M 1ILE. Mr. Jackson ., trying to be very fair and ver explicit with you.
Miss POISKA. I understand that.
Mr. DOYLE. But we are o anxious that you go out of the room feeling that you have given the best that you have according to Your recollection, because we never know when some other witness is going to come forward and name other persons who might be in this same group.
Miss PosE.s. That is true. I realize that. and if IMr. IACKSO,. Even more than that, Mr. Chairman, if I maysomeone who ina; have on a number of occasions accompanied you to the meeting-I don't say that that occurred, but I think that is what the chairman and I are trying to point out to you, that we do not want you advertently or inadvertentlh to place yourself in a position where subsequent testimony may tend to incriminate you. We want to be fair. We are trying to be absolutely fair in this. Mi,. Po,,x k. Wait a minute; to the best of nv knowledge I always went alone. I doi't remember of having gone wlth anyone. I know I had my own car, and I drove; and I was living by myself at the time.
Mr. JACKSON. So far as I know there is no testimony to the contrary, but, again, I simply stores that. May I ask one question in conclusion? Without preitice to the right of our committee to release tour testimon at any nine, which, of course, is within the jurisdiction of the full committee. do you have any personal objection to the release of the testimony or to the fact of your testifying at this time-the fact of your cooperation with the coitnttee?
Miss PosKA. No.
Mr. WsEsLER. I think she wants it released.
Mr. JACKSO. That is the point I wanted to make. MIss Posk. Yes.
Mr. JACKSoN. I say that I am not binding the committee to take action one way or the other, but we should like to, in light of the fact that you have cooperated-at least, I should like to be able to say to the press that you tlid appear and cooperated fully with the committee. MlSS I'o,1A. It would make me very happy.
Mr. DOYLE. What was your motive for coming forward and asking the hearing?
Miss PosK.s. Well, I didn'tMr. DOYLE. Why did ou do that? Mink POSKA. Why did I?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. Mi.ss POSKA. I was so stunned, and I was so mad and surprised that I wanted to get the record straight that I am not a Comununist; and to my knowledge-I mean, I wouldn't have anything to do with them, and to my knowledge I never was. But that is my only purpose.
Mr. DOYLE. All right. Thank you very much. I want to ask Mr. Jackson if he wants to ask any more questions.
Mr. JACKsoNs. Mr. Chairman, I think in justice to Mr. Christlieb we should have it very clearly set forth in the record if the witness denies COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 5787 membership in the Communist Party. Mr. Christlieb has testified affirmatively that the witness was, to the best of his knowledge, a member of the Communist Party, and I don't want to becloud his other identifications by any uncertainty in this case. It would seem to me from what has been adduced here today that the witness was indeed, whether she realized it or not, a member of the party. I think you will appreciate, Mr. Chairman, the point I am making.
Mr. DoYLE. I do.
Mr. JACKSON. It is that there are other identifications which I do not want to see beclouded unless they should be beclouded, by any leaving of this in a cloud as to whether or not the witness was at one time a member of the Communist Party. So far as I personally am concerned, Mr. Chairman, the fact of attendance at what appear to have been closed meetings of the Communist Party, the fact of what appears to be recruitment by Mr. Altman, would lead me to believe that you had indeed-whether knowingly or not-become a member of the Communist Party. I simply want to make the record clear and not have the final record appear as being clouded by the profession of the witness as not knowing whether or not she had been a member of the party. (Discussion off the record.)
Mr. JACKSON. Let me go back on the record.
Mr. Chairman, other individuals identified by Mr. Christlieb who were subsequently called before the committee to testify availed themselves of the privileges of the fifth amendment in refusing to answer any questions having to do with their alleged activities within the Communist Party.
Mr. WHEELER. Or affirm their membership.
Mr. JACKSON. Or conversely, affirm the testimony of Mr. Christlieb as to their membership and activities in and on behalf of the Communist Party.
Mr. DoYLE. I am glad you added that, Mr. Jackson. I think to be perfectly fair with the witness, I should add that, too. As I hear your testimony, you state you don't know whether or not you were a member. I think that is the essense of your testimony so far as membership is concerned, you don't know whether or not you were technically; that fact as Mr. Jackson has mentioned, plus the fact that you refused to pay the dues they asked, that they asked you apparently to pay a percentage of your income as dues, and you say you never paid any of that percentage.
Miss POSKA. No, sir; I didn't.
Mr. DOYLE. But as Mr. Jackson points out, you have testified that these meetings were what you thought were closed meetings-you were not free to invite anyone to go with you? In our experience that means that they are closed meetings, that you considered them a closed arrangement, not an invitational affair to which you could take another person. I want to be perfectly frank with you. From your testimony, my own conclusion is that whether you knew it or not you were a member of that group; I can't draw any other conclusion.
Miss POSKA. I obviously was. I very obviously was.
Mr. JACKSON. That I think must be the conclusion of any objective person looking at it. I assure you we are not in any way trying, nor 77486-es6--pt. 11- 5788 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA am I trying, to put any thoughts inyour mind or words in your mouth, but I do want to protect the integrity of the testimony which we have received.
Miss PosKa. Yes.
Mr. DonL. That is right.
Mr. JACKSON. Which has proven itself so far as we have been able to explore it. I am sure you understand the situation in which the committee finds itself.
Miss POSKA. Surely.
Mr. JACKSON. Not to unduly embarrass you or not to question your word in any way, but if there is any doubt in your mind on the score of membership, I would feel, Mr. Chairman, as a member of the comnittee, that we should ask for a denial of membership in order that the situation might be perfectly clear-either something more perhaps than simply it might have been and it might not have been, which tends to cloud the testimony of Mr. Christlieb. Perhaps I can simplify it by asking simply, if you deny that you were ever a member of the Communist Party.
Miss POSKA. I can't deny it when my name is on the record of the Communist Party.
Mr. JAcKsoN. No. Your name might appear as mine might or Mr. Doyle's might, by someone simply writing it down, or the name of any other citizen whoin an official of the Communist Party might perhaps want to demean by writing it in. I think this is an important matter,
Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I do, too.
Mr. J cxsoN. I cannot be personally satisfied with an answer, "Well, perhaps I was and perhaps I was not." We have had this heretofore. I personally would be unwilling to accept such an answer.
Mr. DOYLE. May I supplement Mr. Jackson's thought to you. May I ask you this: During the time you attended the meetings, did you consider yourself in your own thinking a member of the Communist Party? MIss POSKA. No; I didn't. I didn't. I didn't consider myself a member.
Mr. JACKSON. Mir. Doyle, may I ask one further question? You read the reports of Mr. Christlieb's testimony. MIss POSKA. Yes. ir. JACKSON. Was that testimony in any respect, so far as it pertaiied to you, false?
Miss PoSKA. No.
Mr. JACKSON. Off the record. (Discussion off the record.)
Mr. JaCKSON. I have no further questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you have anything further to add, Miss Poska?
Miss POSKA. No; I haven't.
Mr. DOYLE. Are you perfectly satisfied?
Miss POSKA. I am very happy to have had this opportunity of getting all this off my chest.
Mr. JACKSON. Fine.
Mr. DOYLE. Is there anything else, Mr. Wheeler?
Mr. WHELrR. No.
Mr. JACKSON,. Thank you very much. We thank you for coming to this hearing. INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA-Part 11 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 1956 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENT TIES, SUBCOMMITTEE OP THE C0n3vITTE ON UN-AINERIC.AN AcTIvrrEms Los Angeles, Calif. EXECUTIVE SESSION' A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to call, at 11 : 45 a. m., in room 484 of the Statler Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. Clyde Doyle (chairman) presiding. Committee member present: Representative Clyde Doyle of California. Staff member present: William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. DoYLr. Mrs. Viertel, will you rise, please, and be sworn? Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give to this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mrs. VxERTEL. I do. TESTIMONY OF VIRGINIA VIERTEL, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, MARTIN GANG
