Mr. GARRIGUES. I am.
Mr. NIxoN. And will you state your full name?
Mr. GARRIGUEs. Charles H. Garrigues.
Mr. NIXON. When and where were you born, Mr. Garrigues?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Before I answer, may I ask this question: Is this proceeding now considered a part of the main hearing?
Mr. NIxoN. Yes. 
Mr. GARRIGUES. This is evidence before the committee?
Mr. NIXON. For the purpose of the record, Mr. Velde is sitting as a subcommittee of one for the purpose of receiving your testimony.
Mr. GARRIGUEs. This is a public record ?
Mr. NIXON. Yes, sir.
Mr. GARRIGUES. I wanted to be sure of that. I was born in Kansas in 1902.
Mr. NIxoN. Where do you now reside?
Mr. GARRIGUES. At 1623 Per Alta, Albany, Calif. 848 COMMUiNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. NIxoN. Are you presently employed?
Mr. GARRIGUEs. I am, with the San Francisco Examiner. 
Mr. NIXON. How long have you been so employed ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Since 1939.
Mr. NIXON. Will you state briefly what your previous occupational background is?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I have been a newspaperman for-comnenced about 1922, working on many papers in southern California and Arizona. In 1926 I came to Los Angeles and worked on the old Express, and I moved to the old Herald in 19-I think it was 1929. I went fo the Daily News, where I was employed, with various leaves of absence, until, I think, 1935.
Mr. NIXON. During the course of those leaves of absence did you have other employment
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes, I did. I was engaged during most of that time in which I was working with the News as the political expert or political editor, and from time to time I was assigned by Mr. Boddy to take leave and work for various civic and governmental organizations as an investigator of conditions. And at 2 or 3 times I was employed during those periods as investigator for the Los Angeles County Grand Jury, or the District Attorney's Office, I am not sure which.
Mr. NIXON. In a special capacity ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. In a special capacity; yes.
Mr. NIxoN. Now, in order to complete the record, will you tell the committee what your educational background was prior to that?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I graduated from the Per Alta High School in 1919 and spent 1 year at the University of Southern California.
Mr. NIXON. Are you presently employed in a writing capacity?
Mr. GARRIGUEs. No; I am what you would call a copyreader, subeditor. That is one who reads copy and writes headlines.
Mr. NIXON. I understand that. During most of this period you have been associated in the field of journalism, has it been in a writing capacity?
Mr. GARRIGUES. No, chiefly as a copyreader, except when I was working on the Daily News.
Mr. NIxoN. What was your employment during the period of approximately 1935 to 1939?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Well, it was very scattered and vague. I really have to think.
Mr. NIXON. Just generally, I mean. Was there any particular period of employment with any paper or publication during that period of time?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Well, I edited a little paper called the Utopian News for several months. I was engaged in political work as a free-lance public relations man at various times.
Mr. NIXON. When you say "political," what do you mean ?
Mr. GARIrGUEs. I had a bureau, a public relations bureau, and we hired ourselves out to candidates, prepared their copy andMr. NrxoN. For campaign purposes?
Mr. GARRGUEs. For campaign purposes, yes, sir.
Mr. NIXON. Now, has there been any time during this period that you have related that you had occasion to join the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes, I did join the Communist Party. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 849 
Mr. NIXON. Would you tell the committee the circumstances of your joining?
Mr. GARRIGUES. If I may, I would like to go back to the inception, when I started the trend again.
Mr. NIxow. The committee would be glad to hear.
Mr. GARRIGUES. My first contact with the Communist Party was inI think during the presidential campaign of 1934, when I was employed on the Daily News, and I was assigned there to go down and interview William Z. Foster.
Mr. NIXON. Just for the purpose of clarification here, I don't believe there was a presidential campaign in 1934.
Mr. GARRIGUES. It could not have been. It must have been 1932.
Mr. NIXON. 1932 or 1936.
Mr. GARRIGUES. 1932.
Mr. NIXON. For the presidential campaign of President Roosevelt against President Hoover?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes. That was 1932, of course it was.
Mr. NIxoN. Continue. You saw William Z. Foster?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I was assigned to go and interview him, which I did. I was rather impressed by the man's attitude, wrote what I would consider a very favorable honest interview, was quite proud of the fact that it was probably the first honest interview written of a Communist and published in a Los Angeles newspaper.
Mr. NIxoN. For what newspaper was this?
Mr. GARRIGUES. This was the Daily News. At that time I wasyou remember that was the depth of the depression, and one of my jobs was meeting the people who came to the Examiner-to the Newsexcuse me-in search of some kind of help. Many people came there very desperate for food or paying their rent, and during many days 20 and 30 sometimes, and I would question them and sometimes, very frequently call reports in to the WPA, I would very frequently call friends of mine at the city and county offices and ask them to help this particular family or that particular family. After this interview with Foster I began to-or the boys came and called upon me, several Commies whom I don't now recall, and they made no particular impression on me.
Mr. NIxoN. They were known to you as Communists or so identified themselves?
Mr. GARRIGUES. They identified themselves as Communists.
Mr. NIXON. All Communists, were they ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. As well as people of all other left-wing political beliefs. And during the campaign I had contact for the first time with what the people called first just "the movement," which consisted of the Communists, Guild Socialists, Walker Socialists, Utopian Socialists, remnants of the old IWW, as well as merely ordinary socialists and left-wing Democrats, and noted trade unionists, began to come in later, I think. They didn't make too much impression upon me, except I became aware for the first time that there was a good body of political theory which I was not familiar with. During those times when I was engaged in political work for Mr. Boddy, the publisher of the News, as a reform investigator, I had begun to theorize a great deal about the basis of the American Gov- 850 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA ernment, municipal and higher governments, and had at various times started preparation of a book relating to some of my experiences as an investigator, and some of the things which I thought could be done and could not be done and should be done or should not be done in order to save the American system from downfall from internal corruption. As my experience in that direction became w ider I began to have more and more definite ideas, and by 1935 they had begun to crystallize in a book in which I set forth quite completely my conclusions as to the relationships between business and government, the genesis of graft, and that sort of thing.
Mr. NIXON. Now, fixing this again in period of time, you just referred to 1935. What was the commencement of this feeling? 1932, 1929?
Mr. GARRIGUES. The commencement of the feeling of relationship ?
Mr. Nixox. That is right, or that tendency or thought?
Mr. GARIGUrES. My interest in the subject ?
Mr. NixoN. That is right.
Mr. GARRIGUES. Mv interest in the subject began when I was a kid. The first work I did I was a newspaper editor in Venice, Calif., when Venice had a realty boom in 1922. I didn't have any opportunity to do any more investigation probably until 1930, when I assisted in the prosecution, the detection and prosecution of certain people known as the dam graft ring, which sent a couple of men to the penitentiary, and out of that there came not only the political idea, you might say moral idea of what should be done, but I was interested to see if it was possible to convict a bribery case solely on circumstantial evidence, and they did that in the first bribe case in American jurisprudence with no evidence other than circumstantial, got a conviction and got it sustained by the Supreme Court.
Mr. NixoN. All right. We will get down to the actual period of your joining. You have previously referred to your interview with William Z. Foster. Am I to understand that that was in connection with his presidential candidacy at that time
Mr. GAmRIGUES. Yes.
Mr. NIxoN. And it was an assigned interview? Mi GARRIGUES. It was an assigned interview, just as any newspaperman would be assigned. The particular topic was how it feels to be a presidential candidate. He had been beaten up by a bunch of hoodlums in I believe one campaign speech, and I was assigned the job of finding out how it feels to be a presidential candidate and to be beaten up in his campaign
Mr. Nixo- As I understand from what you said before, you were given what you considered a completely objective interview?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes.
Mr. NixoN By Mr. Foster?
Mr. G \RRInUES. Well, he presented his point of view, and I tried to get his personal point of view as accurately as I could.
Mr. Nixox. In repeating it, you mean
Mr. GARRIGUES. In repeating it, yes.
Mr. NIXON. That, as the record shows, was in 1932. It was not at that time that you actually joined the Communist Party.
Mr. GARRIGUEs. No, that was my first contact with it, as I say. Then increasingly during the rest of the depression I began to come COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 851 in contact with this segment of society who called themselves "the movement," and in 1935 when I left the News-I think it was 1935. Now, maybe I am wrong on the date. Late in 1935 or early in 1936, possibly. I had just finished my first book, and it was accepted and I then began to debate the idea of doing another book on the relationship between labor and governent, the potentialities in there. At that time I had been employed-it must have been in 1936. I was employed by a committee working for Harlan Palmer for district attorney, and after that campaign ended I went to San Diego. I was then employed by the King-Ramsey-Connor defense committee; investigated a murder trial in Alameda County a couple months, where I met more and nore Communists I came back to San Diego and went to work for the San Diego Sun. That must have been early in 1937. And at that time I decided that I would make a thorough investigation of the potentialities of the labor movement in the same manner that I had previously done with the graft situation, except to approach it on a different angle. I went down to the Communist Party offices and book shop, headquarters in San Diego, and told them, this man there, that I wanted to join the party. He handed me a card and I signed it. And a couple of months later or possibly a month, about that time, I would say, I had a call from him that I was to meet a certain man at a certain place. I remember who, but where I don't recall.
Mr. NixoN. Fromn that you recruited yourself actually in the Communist Party.
Mr. GARRIGUES. That is right.
Mr. NIXON. There was no effort other than the initiation that you made in going to the headquarters and expressing your interest in becoming a member
Mr. GAjRRIUEs. That is right. lMr. NixoN. Who was it that you met?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Stanley Hancock, the county organizer.
Mr. NIXON. He was county organizer of the Communist Party in San Diego at that time. Was there the formality of issuing you a card? Mi. G RRCIGciE. II- issued me a card or a book, I don't remember now which it was.
Mr. Nixox. Were there any instructions given to you as to future meetings or activities?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes. I was told that I was to-the party would keep in contact with me, but that I was to keep undercover, not to expose myself, and they would have more information for me later.
Mr. NIXON. Hancock was the only one that you met at this particular time .
Mr. GARRIGUES. At that particular tune, yes. 
Mr. Nixox. During that period of time were you given any instructions or indoctrination instructions into the party, or Marxism?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Well, by this time I had begun to read theoretical Marxism, which is what I say most interested me, that aspect of it. There was a person who came to me or called me from time to time, would come to me from time to time and bring me pamphlets and books.
Mr. NIXON. Do you recall the identity of any of those? 852 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes. His name was Morrie Smolan.
Mr. NIXON. You were not throughout the period of time assigned to any particular group or anything, but more in a position of a member at large ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes, for a little while; I don't remember how long. As a matter of fact, I know I was regarded with considerable suspicion at first.
Mr. NIXON. Why?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Because I had recruited myself.
Mr. NIXON. At the time of your recruitment, you made it known to them that you were in the newspaper field?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes; I told them. They knew my background.
Mr. NIxoN. Was there anyone else beside Stanley Hancock and Morrie Smolan that you recall now ?
Mr. GArRIGUES. Well, not very definitely, other than a fellow named Dick, who was a-I can't remember his name. I think his last name was Richards. They called him Dick.
Mr. NIxoN. But you are not sure what his first name was. Is there any other identifying data that you could now recall ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Not in relation to him. I would know him if 1 saw him.
Mr. NIXON. Was he a party functionary ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. A part-time party functionary or something.
Mr. NIXON. Was there any time while you were in San Diego that you were assigned to a particular group or unit of the party?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I am under the impression I got, that those were a group, and I can remember one meeting in particular at which Hancock was not present and there was some criticism of Hancock. I think he was later disciplined or something at that time in connection with something at that meeting. But who was there except for Dick and a woman-I can't remember who the woman was, but her name is Bessie, but I couldn't identify her. She is a housewife.
Mr. NIXON. And then I think you referred to having left San Diego. When was that?
Mr. GARRIGUES. That was in-must have been probably October of 1937.
Mr. NIXON. Where did you go?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I came to Los Angeles.
Mr. NIXON. Was your party affiliation transferred from San Diego to Los Angeles ?
Mr. GARRIGES. Yes; it must have been.
Mr. NIXON. And you continued in the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes, I came up here; they asked me, that is, the newspaper guild-of course, by this time I was a part-time organizer employed either by the American Newspaper Guild or by the CIO in San Diego, I am not sure where my pay came from, or maybe from both. And they were having trouble in the guild in Los Angeles, and the guild officers here asked me to come up.
Mr. Nixox In connection with your work nmorganizing the guild, did you receive any instructions or directives from the Communist Party as to what action your work should be directed to?
Mr. GARRIGCES. Not in the sense of instructions or directions; no. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 853 
Mr. NIXoN. Well, would it be on a basis that because of your knowledge of the purposes and your activities in the party, that your direction or the activities that you used in organizing the guild were influenced by the Communist Party to the extent that you were a member of the Communist Party as well as an organizer for this particular organization?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Well, I think you can go further than that. I was in the Communist Party, at least in theory, because I believe in the importance of the labor movement as such. The guild, according to the theory under which we were working, was a very important aspect of that labor movement, and anything I could do to strengthen the labor movement-Mr. NIXON. By the guild are you referring to the Communist Party ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I am referring to both, although I mean the labor movement particularly.
Mr. NIXON. Particularly in regard to aiding the Communist Party ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes; that is right.
Mr. NIxoN. When you came to Los Angeles, were you assigned to any unit or group of the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes; I was assigned to a unit. I remember going to the first meeting, because it was not a meeting, it was actually just not a real party meeting. But I think I stayed in that unit, or possibly another unit was formed later, but I didn't meet very much with the unit. 
Mr. NIXON. Were the components of this unit from the newspaper field only, or was it a miscellaneous unit?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Well, it was preponderantly so, but I think somewhat mixed.
Mr. NIXON. Do you recall any individuals who were in this unit ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Well, not too thoroughly, not too distinctly, for this reason, that I don't say I don't recall any of them, butMr. NIXON. During the course of the interrogation here there are certain names that I will ask you if you can recall. During the organization of the guild was any outside help given to you?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Any help from outside the guild? 
Mr. NIXON. No; from outside of Los Angeles, in the organizing of the unit.
Mr. GARRIGUES. No; I think not. 
Mr. NIXON. Do you recall a person named Morgan Hull?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Oh, yes; I recall Morgan Hull. Morgan Hull was a member of the Los Angeles guild.
Mr. NIXON. Was he in it at the time that you first knew him ? Were you in the unit when Morgan Hull joined the unit, or was he already in the unit when you joined up ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. My impression is that Morgan Hull was a Communist Party member long before I was and before there was a guild. I knew him previously. He and I worked on the same paper.
Mr. NIxoN. During the course of that period did you know an individual named Lou Amster ?
Mr. GARRIGuEs. Yes; I knew a Lou Amster. My impression is-Mr. NIXON. Is it a definite impression? 
Mr. GAmRIGUES. Not too definite.
Mr. NIXON. It is only an impression? 854 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes. Well, it is a recollection.
Mr. NIXON. Do you recall an individual named Leo Selkowski ?
Mr. GARRIGES. Yes; I knew Leo Selkowski.
Mr. NIXON. Did you know him to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I don't know whether I knew him to be in the party.
Mr. NIXON. Did you know Urcel Daniel ?
Mr. GARRIGUEs. Yes; I knew her.
Mr. NIXON. For the record, Miss Daniel has appeared before the committee and has admitted past membership in the Communist Party. Did you know her during the time as a member of the party ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. My impression is that she was the secretary of our unit, but the date I can't remember just now. It was sometime during the period. Just when, I can't remember.
Mr. NIXON. Was that unit to any degree financing the guild, your Communist Party unit?
Mr. GARRIGES. Well, I think-it is hard to remember. I am trying to place it as closely as I can, but most of the unit members, that is, the party members were guild members unquestionably, not all of them, I think, but probably most of them. They were possibly during that time-this was the period, if you recollect, right after I got into Los Angeles, and they had at the time the policy of having open meetings, where there were various types of open meetings, but there was no longer, as I understood at the time, there were no longer occasional fraction meetings of the guild, but the progressive interest we had in that term came from our crucial problems, and we had 1 or 2 or 3 or more nonparty members who were progressing the labor movement.
Mr. NIXON. That is, you mean some of the individuals who were in attendance were not necessarily Communist Party members to have been in attendance?
Mr. GARRIGUES. That is right, and it is very difficult to distinguish between the two.
Mr. NIXON._In those instances in which there is no question in your mind, for the matter of the record, we want it indicated by you. I mean the basis of the interrogation or the questioning is to have you identify the names of certain individuals whom you are certain of, but if there is any question in your mind, make it known so that the record will be complete on it.
Mr. GARRIGUES. Let me say this before that, that I remember distinctly 5 or 6 members of them that were in this labor guild mobilization. Now, I don't think they were all Communists. I think 2 or 3 of them were, and then there may be certain others that were in there at the time.
Mr. NIxoN. Did you know a person named Burke?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes.
Mr. NIxoN. Did you know Burke to be a Communist?
Mr. GARRIGUEs. Yes; I know that he was in.
Mr. NIXON. Dorothy Healey ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I knew her before I was in the party, and we had a good many discussions.
Mr. NIXON. Charles Judson?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I knew Judson. I know he has testified that he was not in the party, but I could say definitely he was. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 855 
Mr. NIXON. I think that during the course of Mr. Judson's testimony, I believe he is one of the individuals who testified to his having been a member of the Communist Party. Do you remember Paul Cline?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes. Paul Cline was a party organizer, if that is-I want to get that name right now. This is Paul Cline who was the party organizer.
Mr. NIXON. Do you know a Minua Klein ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes; I knew Minna Klein. I think she was a writer, but I don't know her as a party member, honestly. She was one of the people we saw.
Mr. NIXON. For identification, she was the wife of Herbert Klein.
Mr. GAPMIGUES. Yes, I knew Herbert, but whether they were party membersMr. NIXON. Did you know a William E. Oliver Mi. GARRIGUES. Yes.
Mr. NIXON. Did you know him to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUEs. No, not at the time that I was there. I might say that there was some effort to recruit him at one time.
Mr. NIXON. During the course of the testimony before the Committee on Un-American Activities, Miss Alice Bennett identified both Minna Klein and William E. Over as having been in this unit of the Los Angeles Newspaper Guild. Did you know Philip Johnson?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Y.I mean not at the time. I know him now, but I did not at the time.
Mr. NIXON. Do you know George Shaffer?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes, I did. George Shaffer?
Mr. NIXON. That is S-h-a-f-f-e-r.
Mr. GARRIGuES. I saw him hand out a lot of folders. I know there are two people there.
Mr. NIXON. Do you know Ed Robbins?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes, I think I know him. I did meet him.
Mr. NIXON. Did you know him to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I think he was.
Mr. NIXON. Did you know Sarah Bognoff?
Mr. GARRIGUEs. Yes, I met Sarah Bognoff working in, I think she was in the guild offices or some other union office.
Mr. NIXON. You know her as a member of the party ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I know her as a member of the party.
Mr. NIXON. Tom O'Connor?
Mr. GARRIGUES. I know him as a newspaperman.
Mr. NIXON. Hai e you during the course of your membership in the Communist Party been assigned any Communist name or any party name '
Mr. GARRIGUES. Yes, I took a party name of E. Scott. 856 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. NIXON. When did you leave the Communist Party ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. In 1939.
Mr. NIxoN. Was there any formality in your leaving or did you merely drift away from the party and was there an actual break in your membership?
Mr. GAxaIGEs. Well, there was a break when I came to Los Angeles. I had no more contact with the party for a year or two.
Mr. NIXON. Can you remember the approximate date ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. It must have been the early part of 1939.
Mr. NIXON. Was there any occasion or reason for you to feel all the time that you were in the Communist Party that it was a revolutionary party or was a conspiracy in the sense of advocating the overthrow of this Government, as it was stated?
Mr. GARRIGUES. No, not in the sense in which the terms are now being used. That was not my experience with it at all. That was the particular point I studied most carefully. I didn't want to be in such a conspiracy.
Mr. NIXON. After you left Los Angeles and left the Communist Party, were any efforts made to recruit you into the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUES. No.
Mr. NIXON. You were not contacted subsequently to be reactivated ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. Not at any time, no.
Mr. NIXON. And since the time you left you have had no further dealing with the Communist Party?
Mr. GARRIGUES That is correct, none whatsoever.
Mr. NIXON. And you have not been a member of the Communist Party since that time ?
Mr. GARRIGUES. That is correct.
Mr. NIXON. Well, I want to express my appreciation for the information which you have given us.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Garrigues, on behalf of the entire Committee on Un-American Activities, I wish to express our thanks for your testimony today. You may be excused. (Whereupon the witness was excused and the subcommittee adjourned subject to the call of the Chair.) INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA-Part 5 TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1953 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, SLos Angeles, Calif. EXECUTIVE SESSION 1 The subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to call, at 9 - 15 p. m., in the Cleveland Room, Hotel Statler, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. Donald L. Jackson (acting chairman), presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Donald L. Jackson (acting chairman), and Clyde Doyle. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., chief clerk; and William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. JACKSON. The committee will please be in order. 
Mr. Tavenner, will you call the witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Jerome Robinson.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give to be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? TESTIMONY OF JEROME ROBINSON
