Mr. ATLAS. My full name is Leopold Lawrence Atlas.
Mr. WHEELER. When and where were you born?
Mr. ATLAS. October 19, 1907, in Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mr. WHEELER. Your present occupation.
Mr. ATLAS. Writer.
Mr. WHEELER. What is your educational background?
Mr. ATLAS. Public schools of Brooklyn, Boys High School of Brooklyn, Yale University School of Fine Arts. That was a graduate school. They gave me a special dispensation. We were supposed to have a college degree. I had written a play Professor Baker liked so much that they gave me a scholarship.
Mr. WHEELER. How have you been employed since leaving the university ?
Mr. ATLAS. I worked for the Brooklyn Eagle and shortly thereafter I sold a play, and after that I worked as a playwright independently, until I came out to Hollywood in 1942, I believe. In other words, I worked on my own completely at all times.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you been employed in the motion-picture inindustry ?
Mr. ATLAS. Have I ever been employed?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes. 
Mr. ATLAS. Yes; I was employed in the motion-picture industry shortly after my first play was produced on Broadway. That was, I believe, in 1935. I remained in Hollywood for about 8 months and then returned east and received a Guggenheim Fellowship, and sat down and wrote another play which the Theater Guild purchased and produced. aa Released by the committee. Leopold Lawrence Atlas was sworn as a witness by the court reporter. 936 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 'Since that time I have worked independently again, until the time I came out to Hollywood, once more, in 1942.
Mr. WHEELER. What screen credits do you have, Mr. Atlas?
Mr. ATLAS. Do you want them all the way down?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes. 
Mr. ATLAS. Well, Mystery of Edwin Drew in 1935. A Notorious Gentleman, Wednesday's Child, Story of G. I. Joe, Tomorrow the World, Her Kind of Man, Raw Deal. The name escapes me, but it was a screen play based on Carriage Entrance. Ava Gardner was in it, and Robert Mitchum.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Political Association?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes. 
Mr. WHEELER. When did you become a member of this organization
Mr. ATLAS. It must have been-I am not very accurate on date, I must admit-in the latter part of 1944.
Mr. WHEELER. What led up to your membership in the Communist Political Association?
Mr. ATLAS. I was approached by 2 people on 2 occasions. One, George Willner, who was my agent then. The other, Lester Fuller, who was an old, old friend, also, way back from college. Do you want me to tell how I came to this town and the offers of friendship and all that ?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes. 
Mr. ATLAS. I came to Hollywood in 1942 and signed up with the Goldstone Agency, when they offered me a sum of money to work on an original story for them.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you sent to the Goldstone Agency by a particular individual or was the agency of your own choice?
Mr. ATLAS. There was a correspondence while I was back east between myself and Harold Hecht, in which he encouraged me to come out to Hollywood, that there probably would be opportunity for employment for me. Then he offered me a sum of money, I think it was something like $50 a week, through the Goldstone Agency, to write an original story. I was pretty bad off financially at the time and I accepted this and came out and became associated with the Goldstone Agency.
Mr. WHEELER. You previously knew Harold Hecht in New York?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes; I did. Harold Hecht I knew in 1935, when I came out here, and I think he was a dance director at that time, or something. When my play But For The Grace of God was produced, it was produced by the Theater Guild in conjunction with Sidney Harmon, we had our own stage manager. Then a curious situation arose. Benno Schneider was the director of the play, and attached to Benno Schneider was Harold Hecht, who claimed that he was Benno Schneider's stage manager. The truth of the matter is that our stage manager did all the work. What Harold did I don't know. And after the play closed I had no more relationship with Mr. Hecht in any way whatsoever, until this 1942 period.
Mr. WHEELER. Was Mr. Hecht with the Willner Agency then?
Mr. ATLAS. At the time I came out? Yes. As a matter of fact, George Willner was Harold Hecht's assistant. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 937 
Mr. WHEELER. It was due to your prior relationship or acquaintance with Hecht that you became attached to the Willper Agency?
Mr. ATLAS. I would say in general that would be true; yes. Harold knew I had written plays, and all the rest of that, and knew my ability. In 1942 I was handled by Harold Hecht for a very short time and then by George Willner, whom I had never met or known before my arrival in Hollywood. I worked for a short period at Columbia and Republic Studios. Shortly thereafter, I think it was in 1943, I was rejected by the Army because of my physical condition. Feeling very strongly about the war, and wanting to aid in any possible way I could, I personally requested a Signal Corps assignment to make training films for the Army. These were made in Astoria, Long Island. Upon entering the Signal Corps I took the pledge of loyalty, and I am prepared to take a similar pledge now. My children pledge their allegiance every day in school, as I did when I was a child. I see no contradiction in taking an oath at any time in what I truly believe. Never for an instant have I swerved from my loyalty to my country. I returned to Hollywood after my assignment with the Signal Corns. There I met several people whom I had known back in my college and theater days. One of these friends offered to help me find a house. As you may recall, there was a great shortage at this time. This friend was Lester Fuller, who had gone to Yale with me, and at one time wanted to produce a play of mine, House We Live In. Let me state here I never knew of Lester Fuller's political convictions. In fact, I would have been astonished if he had any at all. He found a sublet for us from Lester Cole, who I had never met before or known before or ever heard of, nor did I know anything of his political convictions. The Coles were going to Oregon for about 4 months and sublet their house to us for $50 a month, which was half of what they were paying. Being busted, I naturally appreciated this. Shortly after, Mr. Fuller, who was a director at Paramount, recommended me for an assignment at that studio. I got the assignment. I naturally was grateful. Upon the Coles' return from Oregon, my wife, who was then pregnant with our first child, and I moved into a small apartment on Fountain Avenue. This was, I believe, early in 1944. One day while riding with my agent George Willner-who, I want to reiterate, I had never met before or known, or even heard of before I came to Hollywood-to an interview for an assignment, he broached me about joining a discussion group called the Communist Political Association. This request utterly astonished me. One, that George Willner was a Communist. Second, that I would even have been asked to join, in view of my very outspoken criticism of the party at various times. It is of prime significance to point out to the committee that I had been in Hollywood for 2 years before anyone approached me on the subject. It was only now that the Communist Party had evidently changed its spots, that they thought I would even listen to them. As a matter of fact, at a small gathering several days before, I had said openly that in my opinion Mr. Browder .was nothing more than a grocery clerk. When I mentioned this statement again, Mr. Willner 31747-53-pt. 5-- 938 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA smiled and said it had been reported back to him but that it didn't matter. The Communist Party, he told me, had completely dissolved itself. It was now completely nonpolitical and was now merely going to be a discussion rooup.
Mr. WHEELER. 15o you recall anything additional in your conversation with Mr. Willner, at this time?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes. I recall saying to Mr. Willner that I didn't see eye to eye with his group on many issues. Again he reassured me that it didn't matter, that on the major premises of winning the war and working within the two-party system we were agreed.
Mr. WHEELER. What issues did you disagree on?
Mr. ATLAS. I told him that I could under no circumstances join any organization unless I had assurances on three premises.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall what these three premises were?
Mr. ATLAS. These premises were: 1. That this organization no longer had any connection with the Communist Party whatsoever; 2. That it had no link with any foreign country; 3. That I refused at any time and all times to subject myself to disciplinary action of any kind, mental or physical or spiritual.
Mr. WHEELER. Did he give you any assurances?
Mr. ATLAs. He gave me these assurances, but I was not entirely satisfied. I was still skeptical and wary. I requested that I receive the same assurances from as high an official in the association as possible.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you subsequently contact a high functionary in the party, in regard to the assurances you requested?
Mr. ATLAS. I did, or, rather, they did in the following manner: I was then asked to come to a social gathering at Ben Barzman's house, where John Howard Lawson was to talk. Lester Fuller also invited me to this gathering.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall what Mr. Lawson said that particular evening?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes. I went to the gathering. John Howard Lawson gave a talk which concerned itself with the necessity of all elements in our country to unite in a win-the-war effort. This I devoutly and ferverently believed in.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you subsequently asked to join the Communist Political Association ?
Mr. ATLAs. At the close of his talk I was invited by Lawson to join the Communist Political Association. Not a political party, mind you, but a discussion group.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you discuss with Mr. Lawson the conditions on which you would join the Communist Party?
Mr. ATLAs. Yes. I again demanded the three conditions I have already mentioned, and I was once more assured. As a matter of fact, another thing turned up in our talk in which I said I thought it would be a good thing for the poltitical association to study American history instead of constantly boring back into Russian history. And I was assured by Lawson that they were going to do that.
Mr. WHEELER. How did you have prior knowledge that Russian history was discussed by the Communist Political Association?
Mr. ATLAs. By hearsay. I had been around, I had gotten into arguments with them on any number of occasions. The discussions always referred back to Russian thought. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 939 May I add this: Having personally received these vital assurances from the top men in the association, I saw no harm in joining this discussion group or any other group following these principles. In fact, it was a bit of gratification to me that the Communist Party had been dissolved. I hoped the association, in its place, might now enter into the broad stream of American life and thought, which to my mind they had never done before. It was a further matter of gratification to me that they had departed from their position; not I to theirs. In other words, they had ostensibly come over to my way of liberal thinking. I also privately, and perhaps naively, in view of what took place later, hoped that I might inject my own liberal thought into the association and educate them at the same time that they were trying to educate me. I fully accepted John Howard Lawson's statement about the severance of the Communist Political Association from contact with any other foreign government. Many years later, after I was out of the Communist Political Association, during the period when the committee was conducting one of its investigations, I expected that at some time I might be contacted or identified, and I wondered how I could prove that these important assurances, which I demanded at the very beginning, were the only conditions under which I would join the association. I knew there were only three other people who knew about this. One was John Howard Lawson, one was George Willner, and the other was my wife. I was pretty certain that neither Lawson nor Willner would come and verify this statement, and I racked my brains for some verification of the early position I had taken, and suddenly it occurred to me-and I think this was sometime in 1950 or around there-to check in the Encyclopedia Britannica. In the yearbook of 1945, in their article on communism, page 203, there is the following revelatory statement: S* * in the United States the Communist Party became, on May 22, 1944, a Communist Political Association, with Earl Browder as its first president, who, in addressing the convention, used "ladies and gentlemen" instead of the former official greeting "comrades " The resolutions adopted deprecated class war and stressed national unity. I was all for that. All strikes in wartime we e violently opposed. I was in favor of that. During the elections the Communists in the United States supported Roosevelt. I was in favor of that. They affirmed their willingness to work within the traditional American system of two parties and of free enterprise. * * * On all of these accounts I was certainly in favor of all of these things. And here further was printed proof of the position I had taken at that time, and it gave me some gratification to have it reaffirmed.
Mr. WHEELER. From your testimony, Mr. Atlas, I believe the responsible people for getting you into the association were Lester Fuller, George Willner, and John Howard Lawson ?
Mr. ATLAs. Yes. As a matter of fact, Lester Fuller and George Willner had a big hassle about who was to get credit for getting me in. 940 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. WHEELER. It was actually a threefold effort?
Mr. ATLAs. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall signing a membership card for the Communist Political Association?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Will you explain where this took place and the circumstances involved ?
Mr. ATLAs. This took place at Mr. Barzman's house, in the den off the living room. I was asked to sign a card. I balked at this when I saw the card had the "Communist Party of America" on it. It was explained to me that they were still using the stationery of the party which bore the same initials as the association, as an economy measure. This sounded logical, and at that time I had no reason to doubt it. At the same time my wife joined the Communist Political Association, on the same conditions and terms as myself. She also, I believe, signed a card at the same time, and thereafter at all times we were members of the same groups and when we got out we got out together. Her position at this time is identical with mine.
Mr. WHEELER. After becoming a member of the Communist Political Association were you assigned to a group ?
Mr. ATLAs. Yes. I was assigned to a small neighborhood group in Hollywood and I was, frankly, more than a little contemptuous of many of the discussions and papers that were read there.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall who the members of this group were?
Mr. ATLAS. I can only recall three members.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you identify them, please, for the record?
Mr. ATLAS. One was Vic Shapiro, who was the leader of that group, evidently.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall Mr. Shapiro's occupation?
Mr. ATLAS. I believe he was in public relations. The others whom I recall were Gertrude Fuller, the wife of Lester Fuller, Bess Taffel, and Ann Morgan was in that group, too.
Mr. WHEELER. Is that Ann Roth Morgan?
Mr. ATLAs. Ann Roth Morgan.
Mr. VHEELER. She was secretary of the Screen Writers' Guild? 
Mr. ATLAS. Of the Screen Writers' Guild at the time; yes.
Mr. WHEELER. How long were you a member of this first unit ?
Mr. ATLAs. Not very long. I would say no more than a month at the outside, I don't think, when the entire thing was reorganized.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall who the chairman of this group was, the first group ?
Mr. ATLAs. To the best of my knowledge, Vic Shapiro.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall to whom you paid your dues?
Mr. ATLAS. No. In the first group, no. I don't know whether I paid dues.
Mr. WHEELER. You were subsequently transferred to a second group?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes, which was to be a craft group, a Hollywood craft group.
Mr. WHEELER. How long were you in the second group ?
Mr. ATLAS. I can't be exact about this. I would say about 3 or 4wait a minute. I can be exact. It couldn't have been more than a month or two at the outside. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 941 
Mr. WHEELER. Do you remember how many individuals were in this group?
Mr. ATLAS. I only recall three of the Hollywood craft. Lester Cole, Albert Maltz, and Gordon Kahn.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall who the leaders of this second group were?
Mr. ATLAS. No; but an ironic situation occurred at that time. They wanted to elect me leader of the group and I said I didn't know enough about what was going on to be a leader yet. Who the leader was, I don't recall. I recall who the treasurer was: Albert Maltz.
Mr. WHEELER. Now, you were subsequently transferred to a third group, is that correct?
Mr. ATLAS. That is correct.
Mr. WHEELER. How long did you remain in the third group ?
Mr. ATLAS. Now, the third group took a long time organizing itself, first of all. Exactly when it did become organized, I don't recall. But when it did become organized, I became a member of that third group, and I left them in 1947, to the best of my recollection.
Mr. WHEELER. Well now, who were the members of the third group ?
Mr. ATLAS. John Howard Lawson, Lester Cole, Johnny Cole, Arnold Manoff, Alfred Levitt, John Sanford, Maggie Roberts, who was the wife of John Sanford. May I say she came to the meetings very, very infrequently. Anne Green, Howard Koch's wife, Betty Wilson, Lewis Allen for a short period. Arthur Strawn for a short period. Alvah Bessie,
Mrs. Bessie, Tom Chapman, Mrs. Chapman.
Mr. WHEELER. IS her name Clarise?
Mr. ATLAs. Something like that. She is a stout dark woman. Yes, I would say Clarise is his wife. Mel Levy, Morton Grant, Betty Grant, and Anne Froelich.
Mr. WHEELER. Who were the officers of the valley group?
Mr. ATLAS. There were various officers at various times. At one time John Howard Lawson, I believe, was one of the officers. Lester Cole was one of the officers. Arnold Manoff was one of the officers. Alfred Levitt was one of the officers.
Mr. WHEELER. Could you identify what office they held ?
Mr. ATLAS. No, I can't. I am terribly sorry. One was with 1 committee and 1 was with an educational committee; 1 went to the central committee, or something of that sort. My last recollection of the person who ran the meeting, or sort of officered the meeting, was Morton Grant. Also myself, I guess, as treasurer.
Mr. WHEELER. What office did you hold, Mr. Atlas.
Mr. ATLAS. I held the office of treasurer.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you collect dues from all the individuals you have identified?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. How much were the dues of this group, if you recall?
Mr. ATLAS. When I first joined the association the dues were, to the best of my recollection-and I must admit here that it is a bit hazy, it having been so long ago-a nominal $1 a month, if you were. employed, and 20 cents a month if unemployed. I was originally told also that I need not pay this if I were unable to do so or chose not to. Later-how much later I cannot recall-the entire organization 942 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA voted to assess itself voluntary contributions, based on a percentage of their earnings. Exactly what percentage this was, I do not now recall, but I do recall that it varied at times, that is, new systems at arriving at percentages were worked out. At one point it was, I believe, 4 percent of the net earnings. Several times this changed. This voluntary contribution was in addition to the so-called basic dues. On two occasions I was elected treasurer of the valley group, that is, I was elected once for a 6-months' term and then reelected to succeed myself. It was purely a functionary job. The only qualification was personal honesty and integrity. Evidently the valley group, despite what else they might have thought of me, knew I possessed these. Dues were collected once a month and in the following manner: To facilitate the business of the meetings, the treasurer early in the meetings retired to a separate room to make his collection. This was necessary, since almost every member had an individual dues problem which frequently required discussion and explanations, for a variety of reasons. Firstly, there was the working out of percentages, often rather complicated. And, secondly, many members frequently asked for a lowering of their voluntary contribution. This required further figuring and explanation. The treasurer had the personal discretionary power of permitting a lowering of the voluntary contribution. Many felt a distinct hardship in meeting their allotted sums. Some had family problems of various sorts, illnesses, new additions to the family, relatives to support, back debts, et cetera. In almost all cases I accepted a lowering u' the voluntary contribution, in view of personal hardships. Further, the entire system of voluntary contributions was based on a sort of tacit honor system, that is, each member stated what he or she earned and I accepted their word. There was no check-back, so. far as I knew, of the correctness of their statements. In return for their basic dues they were given a little gummed stamp, which many simply tore up. No stamp of any kind was given for the so-called voluntary contributions. As treasurer, I would have each member come in individually. Together we would compute his voluntary contribution or arrange for payment of arrears, a condition into which many had fallen. When that member left, he sent another member in to me. At the end of the collection of dues, which took at least an hour, and often longer, I would return to the meeting. Later in the week I would take whatever dues and contributions I had collected, along with an itemized account, and I would deposit those sums in the hands of Naomi Robeson at her home.
Mrs. Robeson was called the section treasurer, I believe. The sums of money varied in amounts according to the employment of the membership. To the best of my present recollection, it usually was several hundred dollars each month. What happened with these sums of money after I delivered them to Mrs. Robeson, I do not know. She, in turn, I believe, was required to turn over the collected sums to the community treasurer or county treasurer. At least I assumed so. My functional part in the transaction was over. At various times several of the members requested to know how the money was dis- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 943 tributed. Notably Lester Cole, I recall. I made inquiries from Mrs. Robeson, on his behalf, but was always told that some day a report would be made. This report was given to me only on one occasion. It was a highly complex report, and to the best of my recollection it, in essence, indicated that moneys were divided percentagewise between the community, county, state, and national organizations. In what proportion I do not recall, nor do I recall that the specific uses this money was put to was ever stated. I am certain we all presumed it was utilized for organizational and operative expenses. I paid dues and voluntary contributions along with the rest. I felt that I was in honor bound to do so, since I requested the dues from the others. I recall only one general meeting of the treasurers of all the local clubs. This was held at the Robeson house. Its purpose, to the best of my recollection, was to explore more efficient methods of collections of dues and contributions, since many of the members were constantly in arrears. I don't think the meeting solved its problem. Club members were in arrears as long as I can recall. On the many occasions, when I absented myself from regular meetings, dues were collected for me by one of the other members; usually, I think Mrs. Morton Grant.
Mr. WHEELER. You have testified that you gave stamps to the members of the club after you received dues from them. Do you recall from where you received the stamps
Mr. ATLAS. Yes; from Naomi Robeson.
Mr. WHEELER. You also testified that you attended a meeting at her home with treasurers of other units.
Mr. ATLAS. That is true. 
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall who the treasurers of the other units were that you met with?
Mr. ATLAS. No. There were units from all over, so far as I knew,
Mr. WHEELER. When did your disillusionment begin with the Communist Party?
Mr. ATLAS. After 6 months I knew definitely this was not for me. But how to get out was the question. By now I had insight into their methods of work. Without knowing exactly who the people were, I knew that many of the members were in strategic positions in the motion-picture industry. I had seen instances of it, such as Meta Reis in the Paramount story department, and Tom Chapman at Warner's, Ann Roth Morgan in the Screen Writers' Guild itself, and George Willner as an agent and a person who had been introduced to me as head reader at M. G. M. and whose name I cannot recall. From this I could infer that they were in many other strategic places.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you feel that the Communist Party had a great deal of influence in Hollywood?
Mr. ATLAS. I do. I do feel they were there. Where they were, I don't know. You have the feeling they were, though. I knew that if I had gotten out, these ruthless experts at character assassination would have tried to ruin me with no compunction whatsoever.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know of any example of character assassination of individuals whom the Communist Party was hostile to?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes, I had seen a perfect example of this a week or two after I had joined. A general meeting had been called of all the 944 : S S COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA writers in Hollywood. At this meeting, sqmeone-I believe it was Lawson-advised all members to be careful of a man named Herb Klein, that he was unrealiable, et cetera, et cetera. I waited for someone to defend Herb Kline, for I personally knew that he had recommended and gotten employment for at least three people there, namely, Guy Endore, Phil Stevenson, and Ben Bengal In fact, they were working very closely with Mr. Kline at the time. I was aghast when none of them had the common decency to stand up and say a good word for Mr. Kline; but none did. I was new to all this. I watched and observed and knew that if ever the occasion -occurred when I wanted to walk out that the same vicious, ruthless, underhanded treatment would be accorded me. So I remained. I was struggling to raise my small growing family, and in the final analysis if I were injuring anyone it was only myself. Furthermore, I had faith in my own independent integrity and believed I could maintain it despite all.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you have any further instances which you can recall which further caused your disillusionment with the party?
Mr. ATLAs. As a second instance of corrupt and unethical practice that I found occurred on the screen play of GI Joe. Based on Ernie Pyle's books. I am very proud of the work I did on GI Joe. I wrote, I believe, 90 percent of it. The script was nominated for the Academy Award. It lost the Film Critics Award by only 1 vote, after 16 ballots, and I was told it was accepted as the official Infantry film by the United States Army. No one but a loyal American could have written it. Some of you may have seen the picture, and I think you will agree with me it was a fine film. I worked harder on this than I had ever worked in my life. In fact, on its completion I suffered a nervous and physical collapse from exhaustion and had to remain in bed for several days. But it was a splendid subject, one in which a writer could truly put his heart and soul into, and I did, holding back no reserve. When the time for the choice of credits came, however, Guy Endore and Phil Stevenson-two longtime members of the party and association-who had worked on a prior and unsuccessful script, demanded equal share m the accredited authorship of GI Joe. This to me was absurd. Finally the matter went to arbitration, and although it was acceeded that I had written approximately 80 percent of the script and the other 2, as a team, mind you, only 10 percent-the other 10 percent incorporated in the body and nature of the story itself-the arbitration committee, which was composed of Mary McCall, Jr., Richard Collins, and Dorothy Kingsley, decided that, despite the great disparity of contribution, all 3 names should be equally placed on the screen play. I was aghast at this decision, as were many other people connected with GI Joe. Specifically, Bill Wellman, the director, and Alan LeMay, who had worked on a still earlier version of the screen play. Being new to the industry, I demanded to know upon what rules this decision had been based, and was told there was no standardized rules in the matter of such credits. Approximately 4 months later Miss Alice Penneman, who was then executive secretary of the Screen Writers' Guild, unearthed a set of prior rules which indicated that unless a team of writers had done, I COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 945 believe, at least 30 percent of the writing, their names could not be placed on the screen play. Did the others withdraw their names then? No. Did the arbitration committee do anything about rectifying their error? No.
Miss Penneman was the only one who had the common decency to write me a note apologizing for the great injustice done me. I have a copy of that letter if the committee wishes to see it. Later, I understand, Mr. Richard Collins, whom I did not personally know then nor now, admitted to a friend of mine that before I got on the script there was no script at all. Perhaps he will be willing to corroborate that statement now. For any writer to accept credit for something he hadn't written was to me not only abhorent, but also an indication of a breakdown in moral and ethical principles. For this to happen among so-called progressive elements was doubly revelatory and shocking. On another occasion I remember getting into a controversy with John Howard Lawson on the merits of Brooks Atkinson's series of articles on the Russian theater. Mr. Atkinson had returned from Moscow to America and had written, in essence, that the Russian theater was sterile and decadent. Lawson attacked Atkinson as having become corrupt and probably senile. I have known Mr. Atkinson and his writings for a long time. I believe him and do at this moment to be a person of great honesty, understanding and integrity. I ardently stated that if Mr. Atkinson wrote what he did about the Russian theater it was probably true. For this heresy I was smiled upon as the group's pet "confused liberal." Now let's take up the Maltz' New Masses article affair. This was truly a ghastly business. Here one saw the wolfpack in full operation, working on one of their own long-term members. The mere recalling of the incident is abhorrent to me. Let me briefly sketch what took place. Mr. Maltz wrote an article in the New Masses in which he expressed, in essence, the belief that even non-Marxist writers could write truthfully and honestly, simple and short. It was no great shakes of an original thought. Many of us had subscribed to that idea even way back in our adolescence. And I believe the idea was abroad ever since man first began to write, that is, that shades of political thought had nothing to do with a man's ability to write truthfully. The key word here, of course, is "truthfully." But for a Communist, and one of long standing, to make the above concession was quite a step. When I heard of Maltz' article and read it, I was enormously pleased. This was not only a further indication to me that the Communist Political Association had honestly broken with the tenets of the Communist Party, but also that Albert Maltz, after long contemplation, had fought his way clear through to the liberal humanitarian way of thinking and writing. Albert and I worked at Warner's at the time and I recall going over to his office to congratulate him on the independent position he had taken. There was another chap named Arnold Manoff at Warner's at the time. I remember that he too agreed with the basic tenets of Maltz' article. A week later the roof fell in, and that is a very mild way of putting it. By his article, Maltz evidently had been guilty of some great 31747-53-pt 5-- 946 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA heresy, and the execution squad, shipped in from the East, came marching in. Some high muckamucks, whom I had never known, never heard of and whom to this day don't remember, came striding in on giant steps. This was the intellectual goon squad. A general meeting of all the writers was called at Abe Polonsky's house. Knowing that Maltz was in trouble, I was prepared to defend his position, despite the fact that I was sorely aware of my deficiencies as a public speaker. From this point on I can only give you my impressions of that meeting. It was a nightmarish and shameful experience. I remember that Albert tried to explain his thoughts on the article. I remember that almost instantly all sorts of howls went up in protest against it. I remember that I and one or two others made small attempts to speak in favor of Maltz, and we were literally shouted down. I think I remember seeing Leonardo Bercovici trying to defend the article. But the wolves were loose and you should have seen them. It was a spectacle for all time. Manoff, from whom I had expected some statement in defense, in view of his prior attitude, said nothing. From one corner Alvah Bessie, with bitter vituperation and venom, rose up and denounced Maltz. From another corner Herbert Biberman rose and spouted elaborate mouthfuls of nothing, his every accent dripping with hatred. Others from every part of the room jumped in on the kill. Aside from the merits of the article in question, this spectacle was appalling to me, for one simple reason. Maltz, I knew, was an associate of theirs of long standing. He was at that time a person of some literary stature and, as I then believed, a man of considerable personal integrity. The least one might have accorded him, even in disagreement, was some measure of understanding, some measure of consideration. But not they. They worked over him with every verbal fang and claw at their command; every ax and bludgeon, and they had plenty. They evidently were past masters at this sort of intellectual cannibalism. The meeting was finally adjourned, to be reconvened the next week at the same place. I firmly resolved in heart and mind that if at this next meeting Maltz decided to renounce them all and stick by his guns, I would be the first to follow him out. However, at the next meeting they completely broke him. The hyena attack-that is the only way I can describe them-continued with a rising snarl of triumph, and made him crawl and recant. This entire episode is an extremely distasteful thing for me to recall. I remember feeling a deep anguish for him as a human being, that his closest friends for years, or, at least associates, would treat him so shamefully, so uncaritably, so wolfishly. Whatever the cause, his friends had no right, in all decency, to humiliate and break him in this fashion. Or if they did they were not his friends. And whatever they stood for should have been proof eternal to him that they were wrong and evil. Maltz' martyrdom, if that is what it was, was false, sterile, and destructive. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 947 Further in that hour he betrayed not only himself and his justly derived thoughts, but also all those who had entered and remained in the organization, in a large measure, due to him. So long as he was there, one felt some good was there. A sense of justice to which one could always appeal. I say this was a deep sorrow for Albert, because I respected him. Many others, I believe, were as deeply shocked as myself; but none spoke of it. One lasting impression that I took away was that of a certain Nemmy Sparks, evidently a high muckamuck somewhere in the hierarchy. I recall the sneering look of contempt he had for all those present. His clamping, grindstone jaw . The personification of the commissar. Frankly, I could understand his contempt, for I felt it myself for other reasons. After this I knew positively that I had to get out. But how, I frankly didn't know. I believe I have already mentioned that they were placed in strategic positions throughout the industry. That withdrawal from them would have meant professional and economic suicide. I had already seen the utterly ruthless, unprincipled, cutthroat act of character assassination they had performed on Albert Maltz and others. There wasn't the slightest reason to believe they would not perform the same service to me. I had two little babies, one newly born and the other a 2-year-old child. I had to protect them at whatever cost to myself, though, as we will see later, and probably already know, despite all this, I did leave them voluntarily and of my own free will, accepting with certain knowledge retaliatory measures. I could no longer compromise with my principles.
Mr. WHEELER. What was your reaction to the Duclos letter?
Mr. ATLAS. Now let us take up the Duclos affair. It is true I remained in the organization after the Duclos affair. But, believe me, I didn't understand all its implications until much later, very much later; years after I left the organization. It was only then that I tied up the Duclos affair with the specific causes which led to a direct and final break. To me the Duclos affair was just another internecine war. Now, to understand this, you must remember there were internecine wars almost every week. There were, as you have probably learned from other testimony, constant organizing and reorganizing and counterorganizing of clubs. One week we were a neighborhood club and the next a craft club, and the following week something else again. And within these organizations if Lester Cole wasn't constantly trying to tear Lawson apart, Alvah Bessie was morosely clawing away at Cole, or Manoff would join in to work on both, while still a further newcomer from the East, Alfred Levitt, would take on all three. I recall this Levitt at one time demanding the expulsion of Cole, and for what reason I cannot now remember. It was indeed a spectacle to watch. Now, that was only in our "peaceful" group. There was the larger group of all writers which also was constantly in a state of flux and reorganization. At one time it was thought that writers ought to mingle more with "living" people and edicts went out that all groups 948 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA were to be reorganized so that the so-called common man could enter our clubs, that is, bookkeepers, machine workers, office personnel, housewives, et cetera. But this order was countermanded before it could be put into practice, for some unknown reason. Possibly contact with reality might have been too drastic. Further, at the larger meetings of writers, you would get experts from other groups axing away at experts from your clubs. Dalton Trumbo, a brilliant speaker, taking Lester Cole apart, piece by piece. Or Herbert Biberman, a sterile, pedantic speaker, hammering away at someone else. Or Polonsky, the fiery type, going into real oldfashioned Union Square soap box oratory. The only thing the Duclos affair meant to me was that here was another reorganization, probably on a larger scale, and that Earl Browder was out. Now, that was all right with me. You may remember my early opinion of Browder. This just meant that someone else was on top for the time being, and that probably the week after a third person would supersede him. The fourth week Browder would probably b back where he was, and the roundelay would continue over again. Everything else went on the same. The meetings went on the same. Dues were collected the same. Internecine feuds went on the same. Gobbledegook went on the same. It still voted independently at the Screen Writers' Guild. I still openly and avowedly didn't subscribe to the People's World. I still did no recruiting. I still stayed away from meetings whenever it suited me. There was no difference at all in my mind. Very vaguely I recall the evening the Duclos affair was discussed. It was an evening, I recall, when I was collecting dues in a side room. I also recall that about halfway through whatever discussion was taking place somebody, either Lawson or Cole, thought it advisable that I sit in on the meeting and listen to what was being discussed. Whether I ceased dues collecting for the moment or delayed it, I do not recall. But this I do know, so far as I was concerned this was another big hassle with Cole shouting at Lawson and Lawson trying to defend himself. Very frankly, by this time I had developed what is known as a radio ear. You just didn't listen. You sat there, but you just didn't listen. And what was more, didn't care. In all probability the next meeting was attended by my wife and I stayed home with the children. My wife tells me she used to get a lot of knitting done at those meetings. I know for a fact my children had a great many hand-knitted sweaters at the time. So some good, at least, came out of that. In all further probability I was given a copy of the Duclos letter to read at home. With great certainty, I know I threw it into the fireplace. Why I did this and why I did the same with most of the socalled literature handed out to me may be readily apparent. First, it was the dullest and most complex stuff you ever came across. Second, I wasn't going to waste any time on stuff I had long ago discounted. Third and most to the point-I knew that if one exposed himself too much to this kind of pretzel-bent reasoning, one could grow distorted. You might even get to believe it. And here may I throw in an interesting observation. I think there may have even been a calculated method to their madness of continual switches, reversals, and contradictions. A calculated policy to so con- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 949 fuse the minds of their own members that they could no longer have any integrity. If a person allowed himself to be subjected to this sort of unprincipled thinking for 3 or 4 years he would no longer be capable of individual judgment and decision. He would become a complete intellectual and spiritual zombi.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you ever threatened with any disciplinary action by the Communist Party ?
Mr. ATLAS. I went to a meeting of the Screen Writers' Guild in which the major business was the matter of the proxy. Wr. WHEELER. What do you mean by "proxy"? 
Mr. ATLAS. The proxy to me had always meant the democratic right of every member in the organization to vote all issues they wished to, whether he were present at the meetings or not present at the meetings. This proxy is used, and I am grateful for it, in the Dramatists' Guild, and to the best of my knowledge had always been in force in the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. WHEELER. Will you continue with your answer ?
Mr. ATLAS. I was aware that the purpose of the "dyed-in-the-wool" was to destroy the proxy for various reasons of their own. This was self-evident from the speeches made on the floor. I was violently opposed to the destruction of the proxy. I believe in the' democratic principles of the proxy, and I believe in it today. As a member of the dramatists' guild, I had on many occasions been grateful for the privilege of the proxy, which allowed me to vote on any issue, no matter where I was at the time. The proxy was a form of democratic principle. So long as a man was a member of an organization he had a right to think on issues and then cast his vote as he saw fit, whether he was present at the meeting or not. To this principle I strenuously and firmly hold. When the vote on the proxy issue came to a head, I openly raised my hand and voted in favor of the retention of the proxy, despite these speeches of the "dyed in the wool." I believe I was the only member of the association who did so. Several had seen me do this. When the meeting was adjourned, two approached me. One was Morton Grant and the other one a chap who I believe had recently come from the East, and whom I had never seen before, heard of before, or known before. It was pointed out to me that I had voted in contradiction to the way the "fraction" had decided. I told them I didn't give a darn which way the "fraction" had decided. I voted in what I believed was democratically just and right. I further avowed that I was unalterably opposed to the elimination of the proxy, that I believed in it and that I was not bound by anyone to vote against the dictates of my own conscience. The chap from the East grew angry and said something about disciplinary action. I grew angry, in turn, and pointed out that never under any circumstances would I subject my thoughts or actions to disciplinary action of the organization. My thoughts and my acts were my own, subject to no control of theirs. Morton, whom I rather liked, hushed up and smoothed over what rapidly was becoming a heated argument. However, the word "discipline" was an alarm bell to me. It awakened me to the fact that perhaps certain changes had taken place, of which I was unaware. 950 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. VWHEELER. Did there ever come an occasion when you came to the conclusion that the Communist Party or the Communist Political Association was again directly connected with the Comintern or the Russian Government?
Mr. ATLAS. It didn't quite come about that way. What occurred was after the disciplinary action was threatened, and which I utterly rejected, I became aware that probably something had changed in the organization since. I had acted independently at all times, but never before had I been threatened with this sort of thing. Shortly thereafter I sought out John Howard Lawson. I asked him a question, which I suppose was quite naive to him, but all important to me. I asked him directly whether our group was linked in any way to any international body or any foreign country. For reply, he merely smiled at me. I needed no further answer than that smile. From that point on my wife and I decided to get out. We were not going to subject any of our acts and thoughts to the discipline of any group, especially one that was even vaguely controlled by some foreign body. That was the line we had drawn from the very first. We knew that in all probability there would be retaliation of some sort. We knew beyond doubt there would be character assassination. We knew that we were risking our professional and economic life, and that of our children, who were merely babies at the time. We had no income whatsoever, other than that produced by my writing, which, as we knew at best, was always a precarious one. We were probably taking our livelihood in our hands, but despite all this, we felt we could no longer continue with an organization of this character, and out we got.
Mr. WHEELER. After you left the Communist Party, were you contacted by any individual to try to reactivate your membership?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes, my wife and I, when we failed to appear at meetings, they phoned us, sent emissaries to us. We told them flatly we weren't coming back. They wanted to know whether anything was disturbing us, that perhaps they could send one of their officials to talk to us. We replied that wasn't going to do any good, we just weren't coming any more. Finally they sent Mrs. John Weber to us. Now, this wasn't just an ordinary emissary, this was an emissary with hidden implications, as you may well see. We had never known or met Mrs. Weber before, or since. She evidently served a special purpose. Mrs. Weber was the wife of John Weber, one of the important writer's agents in Hollywood. A significant word or whisper from him, in the proper places, could mean the end of employment.
Mrs. Weber came to our home and asked us to come back, not once, but twice. On both occasions my wife and I were adamant. We told her the answer was not maybe or perhaps, but a flat no.
Mr. WHEELER. After leaving the Communist Party, did you have difficulty in getting writing assignments with the studios?
Mr. ATLAS. Yes, from that time on I didn't work with but one exception. Suddenly, from being an Academy nominee, a Pulitzer for creative writing, a writer whom Mr. Edward Small once flattered by saying I would go far in the industry, suddenly I received no more assignments with, as I said, one exception. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 951 There was a great deal of shadow boxing along the same line that Martin Berkeley described, though I haven't as concrete evidence as his. Mine was all in the realm of conjecture; could be or could not be. And one thing I wanted to guard myself against was developing a persecution phobia. Nor did I want to grow soured and embittered in myself. Of one occasion I must speak, however. I had still retained George Willner as my agent, as naively perhaps as Berkeley.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall any further instances of attempted character assassination by the Communist Party?
Mr. ATLAS. Immediately subsequent to the congressional hearings in Washington, D. C., concerning the motion-picture industry, my wife and I bumped into Ben Barzman on the street. He was deeply exercised over what he called the "betrayal" by Dore Schary. What his reasons were I don't recall, but I do remember he was seriously considering drawing up a petition from all writers in town to demand Dore's resignation from MGM. This I thought was the rankest hypocrisy, and I flatly told him so. I stated that if any of the writers of MGM were dissatisfied with Dore's political views, they could take the initial step by first resigning themselves in protest. This I knew they would never do. I specifically had in mind several of the "dyed in the wool" who were at the very moment working at MGM. I told him this directly, knowing full well that it would get back to the "Cognoscenti" in one form or another. The crowning irony of the whole matter was that shortly thereafter, I believe it was, Mr. Barzman was working at MGM under Dore Schary, his very strenuous views evidently didn't prevent him from accepting paychecks from Dore, although he had been so ready to petition for the man's resignation a short time earlier.
Mr. WHEELER. D you have anything in addition that you would like to state for the record
Mr. ATLAS. There is one point I wish to make distinctly clear. I cannot emphasize it too strongly, because it is the truth. I do notdespite my having belonged to this discussion group-consider myself as having been even a fellow traveler. And here is a sharp distinction. At one point in time they traveled with my liberal point of view. Not I with their. They changed their credo, their standards, their basic tenets. I did not change mine. Nor have I done so to this day This is the literal and spiritual truth, as can be ascertained from the Encyclopaedia Britannica Yearbook article. The factual, ascertainable truth further is that I at all times acted and thought independently of them, even while being right in the midst of their circle. Further factual proof of this is that when I belatedly discovered that they had reverted to their original tenets, I left them as sharply as I could; even, mark you, to the extent that I knew I would be personally injured, economically and professionally; and that that injury would further affect my wife and my children. Nevertheless, I did what I had to, what I was compelled to do by my own conscience and belief. It didn't take a Korean war or any other world event to drive me from them. From the very first I wanted to break from them. When 952 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA I discovered that they had gone back to their old stand I left them, sharply and distinctly, and have suffered sorely for having done so. If for a time I was bemused by their blandishments, may I state here that not only I, but many important men, men whose sources of income were vastly astronomically greater than mine, men too of great national responsibility, were also bemused. If we are guilty of anything, it is only of a fervent, idealistic and shining hope that out of the war-torn battered world might come a time of peace and amity everywhere. The slightest, the merest imputation that I might have been, if even for only a split second, disloyal to this great Nation of ours and its democratic principles, is sickening and abhorrent to me. As for my political affiliations, I am not ashamed of them. On the contrary, I am rather proud of them. I have been a registered Democrat all my life.
Mr. WHEELER. All right, Mr. Atlas. Thank you very much for your enlightening answers. (Whereupon the interrogation of Leopold Atlas was concluded.) INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA-Part 5 THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1953 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-A3IERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. EXECUTIVE STATEMENT' An executive statement given at 4:10 o'clock, p. m., March 12, 1953, at room 1109, Statler Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif. Present: William A. Wheeler, investigator. TESTIMONY OF PAUL BENEDICT RADIN 2
