Mr. CAPLAN. My name as it appears on my birth certificate is Abraham, spelled in the same manner as Abraham Lincoln, the second name is Hale, the last name is Caplan, C-a-p-l-a-n. Several months after I was bornMr. MoULDER. That will be unnecessary, please. Let's not get into long discussions. You have answered the question by giving your name in response to the question.
Mr. CAPLAN. I have not finished, sir. My name has been changed.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. He says his name has been changed.
Mr. CAPLAN. That is what I was about to say. Several months after I was born my mother and father changed my name to Alfred Hale Caplan.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is quite sufficient.
Mr. CAPLAN. Presently I am known as Al.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Caplan?
Mr. CAPLAN. I was born 1418 North Tallman Avenue, Chicago, Ill., July 8,1918.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted that you are accompanied by the same counsel who accompanied the preceding witness. Where do you reside, Mr. Caplan?
Mr. CAPLAN. I reside in the same congressional district as Congressman Doyle, Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. For the record, where do you reside ?
Mr. CAPLAN. In Los Angeles, in the same district as Congressman Doyle. I note that Congressman Doyle has left the hearing.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles?
Mr. CAPLAN. I have lived in Los Angeles since 1932, with the exception of the time I spent in the United States Marine Corps and working for this union in Chicago, Ill.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you in the Armed Forces of the United States and during what period ?
Mr. CAPLAN. I was in the United States Marine Corps for some 25 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the dates please ?
Mr. CAPLAN. I don't recall the exact date. I believe it was the early part of 1944 until March 1, I believe, 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has your employment been since 1946?
Mr. CAPLAN. Since 1946 I have been actively engaged and elected by the membership of local 26 as vice president and as president of 4054 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA local 26. I am also international executive board member of the international union. And as president of local 26 I have been instructed by my executive board to suggest and ask of this committee, recommend and demand that they take their hands off our union.
Mr. SCHERER. I move, Mr. Chairman, that the last part of the witness' answer which is not responsive to the question be stricken from the record.
Mr. MOULDER. That request will be duly considered by the full committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you file an affidavit as a non-Communist union officer under the provisions of law for the year 1956 ? 
Mr. CAPLAN. In reference to these remarks and in reference to what the Congressman might be from Illinois or Ohio, as you saidMr. TAVENNER. That is not responsive to my question. Will you please reply to my question ?
Mr. CAPLAN. Counselor Tavenner, I don't want to sound testy or ridiculous, I want to modulate my voice. I do have a cold. You brought me down to this hearing out of a sick bed, as you well know.
Mr. TAVENNER. No complaint has been made about your voice. Please answer the question.
Mr. CAPLAN. The point I wanted to make is that apparently you don't understand, or you could not read my mind as to what I am about to say. You cut me off. I believe that you may not agree with what I say.
Mr. MOULDER. What is the question pending, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. My question was whether or not he signed an affi- davit as a non-Communist union officer for the year 1956, as required under the provisions of the law.
Mr. CAPLAN. Congressman Scherer has asked my remarks be stricken from the record when I said, "Take your hands off our union." Those questions relate to union activities.
Mr. MOULDER. You will be given a reasonable time to answer the question or decline to answer as you may elect to do.
Mr. CAPLAN. If I am given a reasonable time to answer the question, I am trying to avail myself of that reasonable time.
Mr. MOLaDER. It calls for a reasonable answer. He asked you, did you sign such an affidavit ? 
Mr. CAPLAN. I am attempting to tell counselor for the committee.
Mr. MOULDER. Either answer the question orMr. CAPLAN. I am not a man of few words.
Mr. MOULDER. Or decline to answer and give your reason for it, either one.
Mr. CAPLAN. It is very obvious, Mr. Chairman, that it is difficult to answer in language that one who is called upon to answerMr. MOULDER. What I mean is if you signed such an affidavit and you wish to admit that you did sign such an affidavit, then you will be given an opportunity to explain or expand upon your reasons for signing or not signing, or denying that you signed it, as you may elect to do. (The witness confers with his counsel.) 
Mr. CAPLAN. I refuse to answer the last question of counsel for the committee, based upon the following grounds: COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4055 Number one, the first amendment to the Bill of Rights-and I note you smile when I mentioned the Bill of Rights, Counsel,-insofar as the right of each American citizen to freedom of speech, freedom of the press. I relate to Articles IX and X, known as the ninth and tenth amendments, in which certain rights are kept by the people; and I literally meant that the right of the union to be secure, its members to be secure, and I as an individual to be secure, are contained in some of these amendments.
Mr. SCHERER. To be secure from Communist domination, too, and control. A union has that right, too, under that amendment.
Mr. CAPLAN. Last, Mr. Chairman,-I will at least have one opportunity of interrupting the Congressman as he has interrupted meArticle V, known as the fifth amendment insofar as due process, insofar as being compelled to testify, and all other provisions that I may not have mentioned in these four particular amendments, based upon those four amendments I refuse to answer your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of an affidavit of non-Communist union officer, marked for identification as "Al Caplan Exhibit No. 1." It is the National Labor Relations Board Form No. 1081. I ask that you examine it please. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. CAPLAN. Excuse me. I am discussing with my counsel. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. CAPLAN. I will not dignify this committee by answering the question, and obviously I will not dignify the question by looking at the document. I refuse on the same constitutional grounds that I have heretofore stated.
Mr. MOULDER. The document marked "Caplan Exhibit No. 1" is offered to the witness, with the direction that he examine the document for the purpose of qualifying himself to answer such questions as may be propounded to him by counsel or by members of the committee. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. You are so directed for the reason that it is our duty to advise and inform you that your refusal to examine the document might place you in a position of being guilty of contempt, and that statement isn't made in the nature of a threat. It is just purely for your advice and information.
Mr. CAPLAN. That may be your intention, but I want to say, Mr. Chairman-I might get in difficulty here-you don't intimidate me so easy.
Mr. MOULDER. I am not trying to intimidate you.
Mr. CAPLAN. I don't think you are. But the Congressman sitting over here-I wish he would stick around and come on back. I like to sit next to him.
Mr. SCHERER. Well, the air isn't so good down there with you Communists. I need a little fresh air up here.
Mr. MOULDER. Let's proceed with the next question, please, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Al Caplan Exhibit No. ."
Mr. MOULDER. The exhibit referred to by counsel will be so marked and admitted in evidence. 77436--5-pt. 10--11 4056 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA AL CAFPLAEXHIBIT No. 1 UNITED STATES OFAMERICA NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD AFFIDAVIT OF NONCOMMUNIST UNION OFFICER (l- imml - -W..) The undersigned, being duly sworn, deposes and says: 1. I am a responsible officerof the union named below. 2. I am not a member of the Communist Party or affiliated with such party. 8. I do not belive in, and I am not a member of nor do I support any organization that believes in or teaches, the overthrow of the Umted States Governmet by force or by any illegal or unconstitutioal methods. / Warehouse,Processing & Dietrlbution WorkeraUnion, Local 26 arehousam. -Intersationl . ... ._.... .. LonshoreeBni o. * IU... &' I. un .- -: ..I. -- Union .i.. . . ,. . . . . Signature. Title of ofRice .- Assumed officeon ... ..... Residence oroth, p (1 i mIorn pubti. ly il blank i mdoi mit fll n mplno ,in authord bylaI o.adminilsr Subscribedand sworn to before m this A notary public or ot fe the county < My ommlssto. expire //.5L. . t day of person authorized bylaw to adAinister oath n s bl1 19 - nd tae cknowledgments in and ,State w ' l' . 10lels / 9 stent or ,ny p'Ton wllLLiy i min or uin to be madeno alseor houd1uist ni.80, ohlcl,,rodes that entlto inany not ..;:Ig Y tter withinthejusdlctlono thoBoardshatbe fned notmorethan 10.000orimprisoned .Umo p thin . COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4057 (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I think I should read the affidavit. It is the usual affidavit of non-Communist membership. It was sworn to on January 6, 1955, and the name of the affiiant is Al Caplan, C-a-p-l-a-n.
Mr. Caplan, were you a member of the Communist Party on the 6th day of January 1955, the date of this document ?
Mr. CAPLAN. You know apparently people don't believe me when I tell you something. Just keep yourMr. SCHaRER. That is true.
Mr. CAPLAN. Just keep your hands off our union, off our members, see. And you try this routine-come on, Congressman. You know I'm baiting you-you try this routine. By the way, since you left I notice the air has cleared up, at least around me.
Mr. MOULDER. Let us proceed as orderly as possible.
Mr. CAPLAN. Mr. Chairman, I would suggest you tell the Congressman, too.
Mr. MouILDER. I understand.
Mr. CAPLAN. I have been needled by experts. I don't consider this Congressman an expert.
Mr. MOULDER. Let's please have order in the hearing room. And may I say that in the event that there are more demonstrations it may be necessary to order the hearing room cleared of all spectators, which will be with the exception of the press and the staff.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me assure the witness that his discourtesy to the members of the committee is not going to affect me one bit in the questions I am going to ask him.
Mr. CAPLAN. You say discourtesy?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, discourtesy.
Mr. CAPLAN. I am not trying to be discourteous.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of a second nonCommunist affidavit. This affidavit was sworn to on January 5, 1956, and the name of the affiant is Al Caplan. It is marked for identification only as "Al Caplan Exhibit No. 2." I ask you whether or not you signed it (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. CArLAN. I will not answer.
Mr. MOULDER. The same direction is given to the witness as before as to exhibit No. 1.
Mr. CAPLAN. I will not answer on the same grounds. That is, it is still the same subject matter, as I understand, counselor has directed. I will not answer, on the same constitutional grounds that I have heretofore stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Al Caplan Exhibit No. 2."
Mr. MOULDER. The document will be so marked. (This exhibit is similar to Al Caplan exhibit No. 1, p. 4056, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on the 6th day of January 1955, Mr. Caplan ?
Mr. CAPLAN. Do you accept the same answer? Will it speed this thing along?
Mr. TAVENNER. We understand when you make the remark "the same answer" it will be by reference to include all of the reasons that you 4058 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA have given prior to that question for declining or refusing to answer.
Mr. CAPLAN. The taxpayers have paid enough money for this hearing. Let's shorten it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you execute a similar affidavit for the year 1954 ?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time during the year 1954 ? 
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you execute a similar affidavit for the year 1953?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in the year 1953?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer, Counselor. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Caplan, have you taken part in a movement designed to defend the 11 Communists who were on trial in the city of New York in 1949 ?
Mr. CAPLAN. Mr. Chairman, would it be possible-may I ask you a point of procedure? Would it be possible to say, No. 1, any answers relative to my personal life, insofar as thinking, reading, what I sign, what I don't sign; and secondly, all answers relative to union functions, that the constitutional grounds that I have set forth-isn't it possible to say on all these questions that you have, you know I am not going to answer them, you knew that before the hearing started, you knew the position, I believe, that I was going to take-couldn't we expedite it by saying, "Look, fellows, you know what I am going to do. So I am doing it."
Mr. SCHERER. Don't you want the public to hear these questions asked about you? Are you afraid of them? Is that the reason you want to expedite it? Don't you want your union to know about it?
Mr. CAPLAN. Nice trying, Congressman. It just don't work.
Mr. SCHERER. It was a good try. What is the reason you do not want these questions asked ?
Mr. MOULDER. I would suggest the question be refrained and that you name some of the persons referred to as the 11 Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Eugene Dennis was one of the 11 principal Communists of the United States at the time in 1949.
Mr. SCHERER. That is where they harassed Judge Medina, just like this witness is attempting to harass this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will ask the witness to examine the October 31, 1949, issue of the Daily People's World and state whether or not he was one of the leaders of a movement which was entitled in this paper to be "L. A. Leaders Urge Bail for Communist Eleven."
Mr. CAPLAN. The same answer to the documents that are offered to me-at least thus far.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask that the witness be directed to examine the article ?
Mr. CAPLAN. The same answer. 
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to-Mr. CAPLAN. You accept my- 
Mr. MoULDER. Examine the document. And the witness declines to examine the document for the reasons previously given. (The witness confers with his counsel.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4059 
Mr. TAVENNER. What action did the Communist Party city of Los Angeles to defend the Communist leaders in New York?
Mr. CAPLAN. I am sorry, I didn't hear you.
Mr. TAVENNER. What action did the Communist Party city of Los Angeles to defend the Communists on trial in New York? take in the the city of take in the the city of 
Mr. CAPLAN. The same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What action did you take?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer. I want to repeat, Mr. Chairman, you ain't getting nothing out of me. When it comes to my union and my rights you're in trouble.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a party to the signing of a brief amicus curiae for the defense of the Communists on trial in New York ?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer. I would like to offer an alternative suggestion, Mr. Chairinan.
Mr. MouLDER. What is it? 
Mr. CAPLAN. An alternative suggestion. Congressman Scherer implied that perhaps I would like to hide something. Maybe if everything was said at one time, if he fears the public knowing what the questions were, if he would ask all of his questions and give him one answer, maybe that would be helpful ? I will just sit back and make a note on each question you ask and give you one answer and we can save a few bucks that way.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a copy of the December 28,1951, edition of the Daily People's World, at page 5 of that document, and I call your attention to an article by William Z. Foster, under which greetings are sent to the Daily Worker by a number of people. I see there in one section greetings from Al Caplan, Lou Sherman, and four other people. Will you examine it, please ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. CAPLAN. I will not answer any questions concerning that document. Therefore, I will not answer your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you aware of a plan on the part of the Communist Party in the city of Los Angeles to circulate petitions of the Independent Progressive Party for signatures in order to get the Progressive Party on the ballot ?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a document marked for identification as "Caplan Exhibit No. 3". It is a photostatic copy of a petition of the Independent Progressive Party of California, at the end of which there is an affidavit showing that it was signed by the individuals whose names appear thereon, and I will ask you whether or not your name appears on line 6. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer.
Mr. MOULDER. The record will show the witness declines to examine Caplan exhibit No. 3 for the reason previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Caplan Exhibit No. 3." 4060 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. MOULDER. The document is so marked and will be admitted in evidence. (This exhibit is similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 1, page 3957, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the commitee, please, whether you have been active in an organization known as the Los Angeles Committee for Protection of Foreign Born?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you on the continuation committee of that organization in 1953?
Mr. CAPLAN. IS the question finished?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer.
Mr. SCHERER. The American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born has been cited as a Communist-front organization, has it not?
Mr. TAVENNER. It has.
Mr. CAPLAN. By the way, Mr. Congressman, may I ask a question based upon these remarks? Is it the indication again, as I have heard several times, that when constitutional privileges are used in declining to answer-does the Congressman disagree with the Supreme Court's most recent decision that this is an admission of guilt ?
Mr. SCHERER. That isn't what the Supreme Court said. I do disagree with the recent Supreme Court decision, but I realize that I must abide by it, and will abide by it until that decision is changed.
Mr. CAPLAN.' What is your inference when I decline to answer on this last question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, that is entirely unresponsive to any question asked.
Mr. MOULDER. That is argumentative.
Mr. CAPLAN. The unfortunate thing is I am not a lawyer. I can't cope with some of this.
Mr. SCHERER. Let's say this: You don't have to draw any inferences at all, Witness, on your refusal to answer on the grounds of the fifth and other amendments. I draw my inference from the sworn testimony before this committee under oath that you are a member of the Communist Party. That is where I draw my inference. And whether you reinvoke the fifth amendment or not doesn't make any difference.
Mr. CAPLAN. The inference I am concerned with is what the American people think of me, and particularly the members of my union.
Mr. MOULDER. The next question, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you the July 11, 1950, issue of the Daily People's World, and call your attention to an article relating to the Stockholm peace appeal. I will ask you to tell the committee, after you have examined the article, whether or not you as president of the ILWU, Local 26, participated in the Stockholm peace appeal. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. CAPLAN. I would like to urge that this committee immediately or possibly tomorrow or Monday come down to the union office. We will discuss what this union does. We will discuss why it does it. And maybe this will help clear up in the minds of the committee some of the questions that the committee is asking. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4061 
Mr. MOULDER. Will yOU examine the document offered by counsel?
Mr. CAPLAN. The same answer.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness declines to examine the document as requested by the committee for the reasons previously stated by him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party
Mr. CAPLAN. The same answer, my friends. And I assume you know what I mean by the same answer.
Mr. MOULDER. Yes. The record will show that you are declining to answer that question for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. CAPLAN. I appreciate the chairman keeping the record straight.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. CAPLAN. Same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Questions, Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. NO questions.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused. You may claim your witness fees with the deputy clerk.
Mr. CAPLAN. May I make a contribution of that fee to anybody I want to?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, this witness has been insolent to the point where I think he should be ejected from the hearing room, and I suggest it.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well.
Mr. CAPLAN. I am asked by the committee to leave the hearing room?
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused. And you may claim your witness fees with the deputy clerk. Call the next witness.
Mr. CAPLAN. One question. How do I sign it? What name?
Mr. MOULDER. Would you call the next witness, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. John T. McTernan.
Mr. MOULDER. Will you hold up your right hand and be sworn, please? Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. McTERNAN. I do. TESTIMONY OF JOHN T. McTERNAN, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, GRANT B. COOPER 