Mr. LEvrrr. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Levitt?
Mr. LEVITT. I was born in New York City on June 3, 1916.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your educational background?
Mr. LEVITT. I was educated in the elementary and high schools of New York City and received a B. S. degree from New York University in 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. In a general way, what has been your employment background?
Mr. LEVITT. Well, I came out here in about 1939, and my employment background, generally, has included work as a reader in the studios, and until the time I entered the Army, and upon my return from overseas I worked as a free-lance writer at various studios.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever affiliated with the Young Communist League?
Mr. LEVITT. I will decline to answer this question on the grounds that an answer might tend to incriminate me. COMMUNISM 1553 IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that you were a member of the Communist Party here in Hollywood. I would like to ask you whether or not that is true. If it is, I would like to ask you further questions relating to your knowledge about the Communist Party activities in the Hollywood industry.
Mr. LEVITT. Any questions that deal with possible knowledge on my part of the Communist Party or any other organization which is included in your list of subversive organizations I will decline to answer on the grounds provided by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, that is not quite in response to my question.
Mr. LEVITT. Well, will you make it more specific and I will give my response to it. Mi. TAVENNER. My question is, Were you at any time ever a member of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. LEVITT. I decline to answer that question on the grounds that I have just stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party? 
Mr. LEVITT. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter, any questions?
Mr. WALTER. No questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle? 
Mr. DOYLE. You mentioned, Mr. Levitt, the list of organizations. What list do you refer to?
Mr. LEvrrTT. I referred to the list that I have seen, that I believe is the [receiving document from Attorney Ben Margolis]Mr. DOYLE. Your counsel has just given you a booklet. 
Mr. LEVITT. Yes. This is the list that I am referring to. 
Mr. DOYLE. Have you read the list?
Mr. LEVITT. I have not read it.
Mr. DOYLE. How do you know. then 
Mr. LEVITT. I haven't read all the pages of it.
Mr. DOYLE. The organizations are listed?
Mr. LEVITT. But I have gone through it, and a number of these organizations I have seen in other records. Also, I have read previous testimony that has appeared here in the course of hearings held by this committee andMr. DoYLE. What organizations did you note in there? Tell me the names of the organizations that you noticed in there that were listed as subversive.
Mr. LEVITT. It is a bit difficult for me to distinguish now between those organizations which I read in this booklet and those which I read in the various
Mr. DOYLE. When did you read the list of those in that booklet which you have in your hand from your attorney? How long ago? Oh, I have read it from-I have seen this booklet within the past several weeks.
Mr. LEVITT. 
Mr. DOYLE. You didn't answer my question, please. I asked you when you read the list of organizations in that book.
Mr. LEVITr. I have not said at any time that I have read the list of organizations that is in this book.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, then, I misunderstood you. 1o54  
Mr. IrvT-r. I beg your pardon. That is a misunderstanding. What I did say in relation to your earlier questions was that it is difficult for me to distinguish between those organizations which I have read :bout in the reports of testimony that has taken place in previous hiearin s of tils comlnittee in which it has been mentioned that variou- organizat ions are listed in this book and tlose which I actually did see in tie book, itself.
Mr. I)OYLE. What organizations in previous hearings of this commiittee did vou hear were listed in that book? Give me the name of any organization that you previously heard as a result of newspapers or otherwise to be listed in this book which you now have in your hand-just given you by your lawyer. Give me the name of one.
Mr. LEVi-rr. One such organization is the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. 
Mr. I)oI IE. Give me the name of another.
Mr. LEITT. One other, I believe, is the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council. 
Mr. DI)oYI... When did you hear that that was ever listed as subversive Iow long ago, in any previous hearing before this cominittee IMr. LEvTr. I said earlier that it. was difficult for me to distinguish between learning of the attitude of this committee toward these organ- izations from reading their names in this book or from reading in the accounts of previous testimony. and I'cannot give you a certain answer to that particular question. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I judged you couldn't from your former answer. That is why I have taken your time and mine to ask you, to see how definite you were in that field of reply to the question. Now, you have the book before you that has just been given you by your attorney,
Mr. Margolis. Point out, please, there the name of the organization that you just quoted. Have you ever seen it actually listed in that book . If you have, refer to the same page where you found it before, please, and read us the name of the organization. I see you are look- ing at the book. Do you need the help of your attorney to find it?
Mr. MARGOLIS. Is there any objection to my giving him help, Mr. Doyle : ,Mr.DOYLE. I am asking him-I assume he saw it in that book before, and if he did I assume he knows where to turn again.
Mr. LEVITT. I never said that I memorized this book in such a way that I could find anything I saw in it.
Mr. DOYLE. I think you said you saw it, sir, and thereforeMr. LEVITT. That's correct.
Mr. DOYLE. I assume that you are capable of turning to the book again without your attorney directing your attention to the page where it is listed ?
Mr. LEv'rI. sure. If you have objections-my attorney is helping us, I'm 
Mr. DOYLE. I think you are perfectly able to find it again if you ever found it before. I know your attorney is capable of finding it. 
Mr. LEVITT. It seems to me that for a committee to travel 3,000 miles here to find out whether I am able to use a catalog that is alphabetically arranged-  1555 
Mr. DOYLE. I assure you, young man, that that is not our purpose at all.
Mr. LEVILT. I see.
Mr. DOYLE. But the way you answered me led me to believe that you were not quite accurate in your answer. Therefore I am not presuming upon your intelligence nor credulity or anything of the sort in asking you again to point out the name of the organization that you said you saw ini this book.
Mr. LEVITrT. On page 5( of this book -- I beg your pardon. On page 57 of this book there is listedHollywood Writers' Mobilization citedl l subversive and Communist. Attorney General Tom Clark, Letters to Loyalty Review Board. released December 4, 1947, and September 21, 19)4s. Cited as a ('onmmunist-front organization whose "true purpose" was "the creation of a clearing house for Communist propaganda." California Committee on I'n-American Activities Report 1945, page 130. 
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you. Now, can you turn to the name of any other organization that you noted in that book ever before /
Mr. LEVITT. I told you earlier, and I will repeat it again, that it is very difficult for me to distinguish between the sources of having learned that this committee considers one organization or another subversive. On some occasions it may have been from this book and on some occasions from reading the testimony. I can't recall on which occasion in relation to which particular organization. It is a ratherMr. DOYLE. When did you ever on any other occasion note on that page the name of that organization which you just read? When on any other occasion before just now ?
Mr. LEVITT. Well, in consultation with my attorneys this book was shown me.
Mr. DOYLE. Within the last week or two?
Mr. LEVITT. Within the last few weeks. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, that is what I assumed when I asked you these questions, which is all right. You have the perfect right to counsel. Don't misunderstand me.
Mr. LEVITT. Sir, I could not quite understand what the nature of your question was leading to.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I was directing that question to the first time you ever noticed that list or that organization. Now, is that the only organization which you noticed in that book before a. week ago when you were in counsel with your attorneys?
Mr. LEVITT. No; I noticed others.
Mr. DOYLE. What others?
Mr. LEVITT. . thumbed through it. I can't recall which ones I noticed from this book.
Mr. DOYLE. That was a week ago. Were you looking for names of organizations of which you were a member at that time which might have been held subversive when you referred to that book, or for some other purpose?
Mr. LEVIrr. I decline to answer that question on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, the reason I have asked you about that book is that y3ou have referred to it as a book in which there is listed organI Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications. prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, March 3, 1951. (Reference found on page 59 of revised document printed under samn title, as House Document 137, May 14. 1951.) 815! 5-51-pt. 4- -- 10( 1556 izations either declared subversive by this committee or by the Attorney General of the United States, you having said that you referred to the book. Therefore, I felt that I had a perfect right without being anything but fair to you, to see really what you had ever noticed in that book. I just want to say this, young man, to you, as a young man. You said you just returned from World War II, and I noticed your wife said that she had stopped working in gainful work to raise a family.
Mr. LEvrrT. That's right. 
Mr. DOYLE. I want to commend you both on that high purpose, but as ari older man who lost his son in the last war, and I did, I want to just urge you as a young man who has received the benefits of our great Nation, if you are a member of the Communist Party, for God's sake get out of it and be true to the Constitution of the United States.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Levitt, I think you said you were in the Army. LEVITT. That's correct. JACKSON. When did your Army service commence? LEVITT. It commenced in December of 1942, I believe, and-can I refer to my discharge here?
Mr. JACKSON. Just generally.
Mr. LEVITT. I got my discharge, I believe, in January of 1946.
Mr. JACKSON. What was your rank upon discharge?
Mr. LEVITT. Sergeant.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you willingly serve in the Armed Forces of this country again if it became necessary to do so, even though it might involve conflict with the Soviet Union?
Mr. LEVITT. I believe-I must say, in preface to my answer, as a matter of fact as part of my answer, that this question has occurred before in this room and has the design of facing a witness with the alternatives of either appearing to jump on the bandwagon for what I consider the destruction of civilization, or else to appear in the light of someone who is not willing to fulfill his obligations as a citizen. Now, I have always fulfilled my obligations as a citizen, to the best of my ability, and I always intend to fulfill my obligations as a citizen to the best of my ability.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you think, Mr. Levitt, that one of the obligations of your citizenship is service in the military forces?
Mr. LEVITT. It may be; it is possible. And when I am called upon to serve in the militaryMr. JACKSON. It is quite definitely an obligation of citizenship to serve your country in time of need.
Mr. LEVITT. Perhaps I should make the distinction that I feel very strongly, and perhaps it will explain a little bit more about my answer. I feel that since 1 orld War II an entirely new element has entered the world in the form of atomic weapons which now makes the possibility of war completely different from anything which was ever known to history before, in that the consideration of war, I believe, is a consideration of the destruction-entire destruction of civilization. I feel, therefore, that efforts should be bent entirely in the direction of securing peace.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever expressed yourself as being opposed to the Soviet foreign policy of its actions abroad ? Are you opposed to the Soviet policy as compared to the American policy?  1557 
Mr. LEvITT. If you are asking me to express an opinion on foreign policy, let me tell you that I cannot answer it that simply as to say I am in favor, for example, of American policy. There are aspects of American policy with which I am in agreement and certain aspects with which I am not in agreement. I believe-- 
Mr. JACKsON. Do you support American foreign policy in Korea?
Mr. LEVITT. If you mean do I approve of theMr. JACKSON. I have reference to the entrance and participation of United Nations troops as opposed to the puppet troops of North Korea and the Chinese Reds. Do you approve American and United Nations action, or do you disapprove that commitment?
Mr. LEVITT. If President Truman had called me that day in June, I believe it was, and asked me whether I approved sending troops in, I would have said, "No, I don't; wait." I think that the risking and actual expenditure of lives here was something that I would not be in favor of rushing into. I would much rather have waited and discussed this in terms-used every effort of conference tables to try to prevent such a thing.
Mr. JACKSON. Suppose President Truman had not asked you for your opinion but only for your services in Korea. Would you serve? 
Mr. LEVITT. I would obey the law.
Mr. JACKSON. You would serve in Korea if called?
Mr. LEVITT. If I had been called to serve in Korea I would have served.
Mr. JACKSON. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Levitt, if your feelings about war and the fact that a general world war now would be most destructive to civilization-which we all fear, however, many of us also have a greater fear of losing our freedom-I am wondering if your views would be the same if the United States should be attacked by Franco Spain.
Mr. LEVITT. My views on peace would be the same, yes; in any case. I feel that the possibility of considering attack and any possibility of world-wide war would be absolutely disastrous to civilization in its entirety. I feel that elements-I would like to refer back a little bit to Mr. Jackson's question about foreign policy, and I believe that this is terribly important to the way I feel and the way I have testified before this committee, and that is that I feel that every person; every individual, every group, has the right to any opinion. In the areas of opinion, the areas of speech and the areas of association should have complete freedom. I think people are responsible and should be held accountable for their acts. Now, I don't think that those rights should be diminished on the basis of the judgment of these opinions by any one group, or even by the popularity throughout the country at any given time because such popularities change with time and the effect of diminishing such freedoms is that although there may be a minority affected by this it also affects the majority because then the majority is afraid, becomes cautious about its thoughts and opinions for fear thaL they will be interpreted in another way. IMr. POTTER. Of course, you realize, as well as I, that the suppres- sion of opinion in a Communist-dominated country, and within the Communist Party itself, it is much more severe than any suppression of opinion that you would ever get or ever find in a democracy such as we have here. 155S INDUSTRY 
Mr. LEVITT. What I realize mostly is that this is my country, to which I give my allegiance, and this is the country whose imperfections, when they exist, I wish to do everything I can to right, according to how I see it. I feel that any attempt to prevent me from doing so by blacklist, by official censure, or anything else tends to prevent the free exchange of ideas upon which this country is based. It doesn't make any difference if you should set examples of others who do not agree with these ideas. This does not diminish my belief in my ideas at all.
Mr. POTTER. The very organ in which you wish to find expression for the opinions that you have just stated certainly can't be found in the Communist Party. 
Mr. LErrr. This is a statement?
Mr. POTTER. I am not asking a question; I am just making a state- ment. I have no further questions.
Mr. LEvITT. Whether or not this is true, this still does not affect my belief.
Mr. POTTER. I know. It is a discussion. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I would like to ask you, Mr. Levitt, what screen credits you have acquired while a writer. or the principal ones.
Mr. LEVITT. My name appears on a film called the Boy With Green Hair: a script called the Wild Country, which is not yet produced; and a film called Shakedown; on a film called Mrs. Mike; and on a script which is now in preparation called Dream Wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I understand you to say that for a period of time you served in the capacity of a reader?
Mr. LEVITT. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where was that service performed? 
Mr. LEvrrr. I first engaged in what is called outside reading. I don't know whether this is familiar to the committee or not. It is kind of a complicated procedure which has been done away with now. The studios all have their regular reading staffs, and there was a certain amount of work which would be beyond the capacity of their regular staffs, and there was a corps of outside readers developed who wanted to eventually become staff readers. Through the Readers' Guild the studio reading department heads would have a list of people, as they were available, and they would be assigned to read and synopsize a piece of work. I did this for a period of time. Then I was hired at Selznick Studios on a rather special project that was not related to films actually. I believe Mr. Selznick at that time, whom I have never met, was looking for a play for some theater project that he had up-State in Santa Barbara. After that I became a staff reader at Paramount.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you serve as a staff reader and when ?
Mr. LEVITT. I believe that it was 1941 and 1942. I know that it ended in 1942 because I went into the Army from Paramount, and I believe it began in 1941. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you served as a staff reader?
Mr. LEVrTT. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated. D INDUSTRY 1559 
Mr. TAVENNEI. Did you work for the same employer during that entire time when you served as a staff reader
Mr. LEVrIT. You mean the same immediate superior? Yes; the same place, Paramount Pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time did you attempt on any occasion to influence the studio in accepting any script which was slanted, to your knowledge, according to the Communist Party line ?
Mr. LEVIr. I believe that anybody who attempted to influence the purchase of a script on the basis of its slant in any direction would not last very long in his job. The attempt, at least, is made to purchase scripts on the basis of merit so that the slant of a script, the political attitude of a script, could never in itself, or at least at that time could never influence its purchase.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now will you answer my question, please ?
Mr. LEvIrr. Would you repeat the question, please ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you read the question to the witness. The reporter read the question as follows:
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time did you attempt on any occasion to influence the studio in accepting any script which was slanted, to your knowledge, according to the Communist Party line ? (The witness conferred with his counsel.) 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please indicate that the witness is conferring with counsel.
Mr. LEVIrr. I beg your pardon ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked the reporter to always indicate when the witness was conferring with counsel.
Mr. LEVITT. I have never attempted to influence the purchase of any script on the basis of its slant in any direction.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you, in your reading, approve or recommend for acceptance any script that you knew was prepared by a member of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. LEVITT. I can't even recall now as a reader-one covers a great many manuscripts in the course of a week. work as a reader in 1942, 9 years ago. This was-I ended my Even if it were so, that I had any basis, or any opinion about the writer of the script, I can't remember which scripts I reconunended and which I didn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you do remember the individuals who prepared the scripts, do you not?
Mr. LEVITr. No; I don't recall the scripts that I covered as a reader.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether or not any script that you covered as a reader was written or prepared by a person known to you to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. LEVITr. In order to recall such a thing, there would have to be an indication on my part of knowledge or acquaintance with membership in the Communist Party, and I don't intend to answer such questions which would have such implication. Therefore, I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Namely, that to answer it might tend to incrimi- nate you?
Mr. LEVITT. That's right: an answer might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. That's all.
Mr. LEVrrr. Before I am excused, I forgot to ask to have my statement received. 1560 
Mr. WooD. Is there any reason why this witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance? 
Mr. TAVENNER. NO.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson? 
Mr. JACKSON. Are you presently employed
Mr. LEvrrr. No; I'm not.
Mr. JACKSON. No further questions.
Mr. WOOD. You will be excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. Miss Bess Taffel.
Mr. WooD. Are you Miss Taffel
Miss TAFFEL. I am.
Mr. WooD. Will you hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you will give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Miss TAFFEL. I do.
Mr. WooD. Are you represented by counsel?
Miss TAFFEL. I am. 
Mr. WOOD. Will counsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. WnuN. A. L. Wirin, os Angeles. TESTIMONY OF BESS TAFFEL, ACCOMPANIED BY HER COUNSEL, A. L. WIRIN 