Mr. LYTroN. My name is Bart Lytton.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel, Mr. Lytton?
Mr. LYTTON. I am, though I was told that maybe a personal bodyguard would be better. My counsel is Robert A. Moffitt.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your address, Mr. Moffitt?
Mr. MorFITT. 403 West Eighth Street, Los Angeles 14, Trinity 8341.
Mr. TAVENNER. We wanted it only for the purpose of the record.
Mr. VELDE. May we have order?
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Lytton?
Mr. LYTTON. I was born in 1912 in Pennsylvania.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where in Pennsylvania?
Mr. LYTTON. In Lawrence County.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee, please, what your educational training has been, that is, what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. LYTTON. Yes. I went through grade school, preparatory school, Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va., Westminster College, and the University of Virginia, and I took some graduate courses at Northwestern University.
Mr. TAVENNER, What is your occupation?
Mr. LYTTON. Real-estate development and finance.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever had any occupation other than that of the real-estate business?
Mr. LYTTON. Yes, I was a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been in Los Angeles?
Mr. LYTTON. Approximately 13 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to that time were you in business?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your employment has been, that is, describe it in a general way, since you came to Los Angeles 13 years ago?
Mr. LYTTON. It might take a long time, in terms ofMr. TAVENNER. I mean not too much in detail, but just to give us a general idea of the nature of your work.
Mr. LYTTON. Well, first in Los Angeles I did police reporting for several magazines and the Country Press. Following that I worked in radio, and then in motion-picture studios; I worked in motionpicture studios through 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since that time have you been in business for yourself?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir. I went in business in 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. How were you employed between 1944 and 1948?
Mr. LYTTON. Rarely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Lytton, in sworn testimony before this committee by Mrs. Townsend, Mrs. Pauline Townsend, we were advised that you at one time were a member of the Communist Party. Is that information correct?
Mr. LYTTON. It is, for a very brief period. 382 CO nMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long a period of time were you in the party?
Mr. LYTTON. There were two brief periods. I would say one was approximately 4 or 5 months and the other was a matter of 6 weeks, 6 or 8 weeks in all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you willing to tell the committee what your experience in the Communist Party was and answer any questions which may be askea you regarding your knowledge of the Communist Party activities?
Mr. LrrToN. I am not only willing, Mr. Tavenner, I will be very pleased to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Some witnesses apparently are not willing to advise the committee of their knowledge of Communist Party activities. I am glad to learn that you are. What motivated you or what has motivated you in expressing your willingness to advise the committee of what knowledge you have of the Communist Party
Mr. LYTTON. Well, Mr. Tavenner. I never would have had any unwillingness at any time, including the time that I was in the Communist Party. It strikes me that this is a duly constituted committee of Congress, and at any time in my hfe I have felt that the processes of law were to be observed, and if one didn't like what happened, there were many ways to protest that, but that the protest-well, if a traffic police officer gives me a ticket, I don't tear it up, so let's put it that way. So I would say that there was no problem of arriving at that decision, but I would say that I had-I feel that there are an evergrowing number of people who were formerly in the Communist Party, who were in at one time or another, or people who were friendly to it, who resort to the use of the fifth amendment when it is not a subject properly coming under the fifth amendment, because I feel in the first place I never did anything incriminating, I never did anything illegal, I never did anything to incriminate me. I resent people resting themselves on the fifth amendment just because hoodlums and gangsters and now many people whom I think individually are fine people, but in the position that they take I think that they are doing an injustice to the Constitution, they are vitiating the very purpose for which the fifth amendment was placed in the Constitution among the first 10 articles, or the Bill of Rights. I heard the previous witness, a gentleman whom I didn't know, Mr. Huebsch, read the fifth amendment. I hadn't heard it for a long time. I found a sardonic amusement in his use of the very last phrase of the article, which was that property shall not be taken except through due process of law. It had not been my impression of the Communist Party that they meant to pay for it.
Mr. VELDE. Let's have order.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your knowledge of the Communist Party has led you to the belief that the Communist Party did not respect the property rights of individuals in their political thinking, in their Marxian thought?
Mr. LYTTON. The Communist Party respected no rights of individuals. I certainly know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you advise the committee, please, the circumstances under which you became originally a member of the Communist Party? COMMUNIST 
Mr. LYTTrO. ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES Yes, I will be glad to do so. AREA 383 I might surprise the committee at this point, because naturally I have listened to a great deal of testimony, and it struck me that people joined the Communist Party and have been friendly to the party for a variety of reasons. I joined the Communist Party because I became interested in socialism, and I thought that socialism was a good thing at the time. I was told that the Communist Party represented scientific socialism, Marxian socialism and dialectic materialism, and I believed in socialism, and it seemed a very logical basis to move. The reason to me was simple.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you go back in your memory to the first occasion which prompted some action on your part toward- a mental impression which later developed into your getting into the Communist Party?
Mr. LYTTON. I think that the first time I even knew that there was what is called a movement, let alone the Communist Party, progressive movement, which is sometimes called Marxism and so forth, was when I was in attendance at the University of Virginia. The then editor of the Communist Daily Worker in New York, by name Clarence Hathaway, was an invited speaker at a forum at our university, where there always has been, and to my knowledge remains, free speech.
Mr. WALTER. By "our university" you mean the University of Virginia?
Mr. LYTTON. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is also my university.
Mr. FRAZIER. And I am glad to say it is mine. 
Mr. LYTTON. We didn't have much of a football team; I was around it, but we had a mighty fine university. In any event, Mr. Hathaway-he was then to me just Mr. Hathaway. I didn't know him. I didn't attend this particular forum, because I think I was possibly 19 or 20, and I was interested in football and boxing, occasionally in studies, and always in girls, and I had no political interests at the time. Hathaway came down and spoke, in any event, and a group of athletes-I was not among the group-a group of athletes went in to break up that meeting. They were pretty rugged boys, and I know it. I fought with them on the team and played around with them and so forth, and they were pretty rugged boys, and they went in and they broke up the Hathaway meeting, and they threw out Hathaway, and managed to get into fights with those that were in attendance. I heard about the incident. I wasn't anywhere around it, but I heard about it, and I was worried about it; I didn't like mob action, and I felt that this was an injustice. I felt that the boys had acted incorrectly, that they had discredited the university, and I spoke about that to many people. Let's put it this way: I have always been articulate to some extent, and I spoke about it to many people. I thought at the time and still think that you have got to do some thinking about the world you live in. I didn't even know there was such a thing at that time. I don't believe that I was aware of the existence of the Communist Party, as such, and I am not even sure that the persons who talked to me were Communists, but we talked about Marxism. 384 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA And they talked about socialism, and so forth. They handed me pamphlets and they talked and they talked and they talked. It began to condition me-let me place the year. The year was, I believe, 1933. It was very easy in 1933 to be conditioned in the direction of socialism. As a matter of fact, I might say the people I talked to in regard to my appearance here today, if as many people voted for Norman Thomas in 1932 as they assured me they did, I think he won, and the votes were stalled. In any event, this was 1933 or 1934. I don't recall the exact year. My feelings began then in the direction of the various pamphlets, books, and so forth that I was handed, and I thumbed through.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am interested to know just what part this incident played in your mental approach to this whole subject. That is, the incident where you felt an injustice had been done in denying the right or privilege of free speech.
Mr. LYrToN. I think a large part, Mr. Tavenner-let me put it this way: Life has many fortuitous and unfortuitous terms. If someone hears something, at the moment he is pretty impressionable, and it may have an effect on him. I wasn't interested in the political scene at the time. I would say it had a very appreciable effect. I would say this, sir: that, if such an incident occurred at any time, I think any decent person would think, "Wait a minute. That is mob action. I don't like it." And I still don't like it. I would draw utterly different conclusions from it today.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then proceed with your description of the circumstances under which you got actually into the Communist Party.
Mr LYTTON. When I left university training, I went to New York City. I was subsidized at the time by my parents, I had $15 a week to become a writer. It was sufficient at the moment. I had nothing to do except the hours that I devoted to writing. I recall roami, around and finding New York a fascinating city. I recall Columbus Circle, where many speeches were made at the time. I used to get involved in all-night sessions in cafeterias in the area where one could sit for five cents' worth of coffee and discuss things all night. I used to argue them out. I began to think that socialism was a good thing, and I believed what I was told: that it was inevitable. I still argued, however, I didn't like the connection between the Communist Party and the Soviet Union; though it was a period of great friendship to the Soviet Union,, I couldn't understand it. It was suggested to me by one of my new-found companions that I take a course at the Workers' School in New York. which is on 13th Street in Communist Party headquarters. I went down and enrolled and took two courses, as a matter of fact, at that time. While in attendance at the Workers' School, I had been perhaps & weeks there, and a very lovely Irishman by the name of Jim Casey was the managing editor of the Daily Worker at that time. I think he became pretty unhappy about it later. In any event, Jim Casey came in to address us. I was interested in newspaper work, and I questioned him closely. I don't recall his answers. I only know at a certain point he said, "Why aren't you in it?" (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point, 11: 15 a. m.)
Mr. LYrrow. I said, "I am not ready." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 385 He said. "The only way you can get ready is to come on in." Somebody handed me a card. I don't know who, just one of the students in the class whom I don't believe I saw more than one more time following that. Somebody handed me a card. Somebody else I was introduced to told me his name was Jimmy Higgins, which I genuinely believed at the time. I learned later that is a popular name in the party, to cover a certain hard worker that doesn't want much glory. Anyone that is a hard worker and not seeking glory is called a Jimmy Higgins. At the time, I believed this chap's name was Jimmy Higgins, and I called him Jimmy Higgins. I was given a card and I was unemployed and I paid 10 cents. It was the roughest dime I ever spent. I was assigned to what was then called a unit on the lower East Side of New York on Avenue B, an Irish-Italian-composed primarily of Irish and Italians in the area. The language disparity between them made for grave difficulties. I was assigned there because it was felt that, being from the middle class, the middle of the middle class. I needed to meet the workers. I went to a number of meetings down in this particular unit, and while I was in attendance there, there was held what was called the Seventh World Congress of the Communist Party. It was decided that, well, in fact, it had been held, the decisions were being made at the very time. The party was Americanizing, so to speak. It was decided to have what they call branches, big open clubs of 100, 150 people in them, to have a mass base. I was called in to 13th Street, which was Communist headquarters, and asked if I would organize, be the organizer for a branch. I did not accept the assignment and was subsequently assigned to a branch. I attended 1 meeting and then I think 2 more subsequently sometime later, and I left active membership in the Communist Party at that time. This whole period was perhaps-I don't know how many months, but it was a matter of months.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the Communist school, the Workers' School which you attended, can you tell us anything about the Communist Party membership of the teachers?
Mr. LYrTON. No, sir; I can't. The only one who made an impression upon me was Jim Casey.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand that you left the Communist Party at the time you have just mentioned, after membership of a matter of months?
Mr. LYTTON. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your reason for leaving the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. LYTTON. Well, I was vaguely disturbed. I can't say the leaving at that time was a turning of my back upon it. I was vaguely disturbed at the-what I saw. Nothing specific. Then two incidents occurred, and they made up my mind for me. One. I was approached and asked if I would be willing to take, I believe it was, some kind of railroad spike with a note wrapped around it, and if I would throw it through the window of the Italian Embassy, somewhere in New York. I don't even know where it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you tell us that again? 386 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. LYTTON. I was asked if I would do this. I wasn't asked by someone that I know as a member of the Communist Party. In fact, I don't even remember the chap who asked me. I don't know that he was a Communist, incidentally, and my testimony shall be truthful, and therefore I don't want to say that this happened as a result of the party, because I never knew. I only know someone came up to me and said, "Will you do this?" I said, "Why?" He said, "This is a time of Italy's invasion of Ethiopia, and this is a protest from the people of New York." I took the spike and looked at it. He had it right there. I unwrapped it. It was in brown wrapping paper of the type you wrap meat in, and in pen was written a message. The essence of it was that the people of New York were protesting against the Italian invasion, and it was just signed, "The People." I was embarrassed at the moment and I accepted the spike. I didn't like it. I was told that a taxicab would pick me up in the Eighties somewhere, and I was accompanied by a seaman who was not to my knowledge at the time a member of the Communist Party because I was trying to recruit. He never went in. In any event, he went along with me. I said, "No, I can't do this." He laughed. He thought it was a great escapade. He said, "What's the matter? Are you chicken?" I said, "You know I'm not. You know me better than that, but I just don't like it." He said, "Why?" "I just don't like doing things this way." And that was the end of the incident. I didn't do it.
Mr. DOYLE. What did you do with the spike?
Mr. LYTTON. I didn't swallow it, and I am darned if I remember.
Mr. WVALTER. That sounds sort of like blowing up power lines.
Mr. LTrroN. I will have to repeat on that that I don't know that it was a member of the Communist Party that approached me because it was just a chap that saw me at one of the large massive affairs that was held. It was a street thing, as I recall, and he didn't identify himself, but he said, "Would you like to do this?" He must have had some reason, but I don't know who he was, and that is the way such a thing would happen, naturally. I don't know that it was identified. In fairness there, in New York at that time there were probablyoh, there were several score of radical groups of all kinds and complexions, and they used to hassle it out. I don't know who proposed that I so do. I just know that I was disturbed by the incident.
Mr. TAVENNER. That disturbance had an effect on your decision to get out of the Communist Party?
Mr. LYTTON. That disturbance was crystallized for me some time later, not too long later, when a script that I had written-I had just become a professional writer-was supposed to go on. It was an adaptation of a Fanny Hurst short story. It was supposed to go on a series called The Greatest Story on the network. It was my first big break. I had my first TV show. The script was submitted. The producer liked it immensely. He said, "This is terrific, and we are going to give you lots more work." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 387 The director, however, rejected the script. He came to me and he said, "Look, you ought to know better. I know a little about you and you ought to know better than to write a script like this." I asked him what he meant. The subject matter was concerned with an immigrant family. He said, "This is chauvinistic." I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "You are using accents." I said, "For heaven's sake, don't they talk accents?" He said, "That's chauvinism." I said, "What right do you have to question me about it?" He said, "Well, I just won't be identified with a script like this. I won't put it on." Now, this was a warm and human story of Fanny Hurst. It was a lovely thing. My script was, I think, a decent and clean rendition of or adaptation of that story, and I was proud of it. He said, "Well, I'll tell you what. I have talked this over with V. J. Jerome." The name meant nothing to me at the moment. I learned subsequently who V. J. Jerome was. "He agreed with me that this is chauvinism," he said.
Mr. JACKSON. For the purpose of the record, would you identify V. J. Jerome?
Mr. LYTTON. To the best of my knowledge, I only met Mr. V. J. Jerome once, and to the best of my knowledge I was told that he was the cultural director of the Communist Party. By "cultural director" I don't mean social activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, would you continue?
Mr. SCHERER. He didn't finish. He just got to the point.
Mr. TAVENNER. I meant for him to continue.
Mr. LTTTON. Yes, sir. The script was not put on, and my resentment was keen. First, it was an opportunity for me as far as I was concerned. Secondly, I am proud of that script today. I was proud of it then. It was a good script. It was subsequently played, and it led to other radio work. It played well, and the very people whom he insisted were being lampooned thought it was a lovely, warm, and human thing. As a matter of fact, subsequently, I believe that in various periods I have followed, why, just this sort of thing was done when it suited the purposes or line, I should say. When the lines changed of the Communist Party, I have seen them do somewhat similar things. But at the time this was disapproved. This was verboten. I resented this very much. What I did was this: I simply left the Communist Party. I didn't say anything to anybody and I left. Now, when you leave the Communist Party it is much like coming out of a decompression chamber. It takes a while in order to go through the various emotional and intellectual phases that naturally take place. When I left the Communist Party at this time I was leaving. As far as I was concerned, I was leaving the Communist Party. I did not at that time feel that I was leaving what were my convictions insofar as socialism was concerned, because I believed in it then. I just didn't believe in the Communist Party any longer at that time. I was vaguely uneasy at the beginning, and then I became angry, and I left. 388 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Now, I had been in only a short time and it was a time of great foment for the Communist Party as well as the world. It was of the time of Ethiopia through to the beginning of the Spanish civil war. The Communist Party during that time had many changes of form. It was almost as hard to keep up with the changes of form as it was to keep up with the changes of line, and therefore, one did not always know who did and who did not belong, and so forth and so on, because you were moved about frequently. I didn't say anything to anybody. I just simply left and had nothing further to do with it. I stopped participation very quickly thereafter in any form of political activity, but first, it was the Communist Party. As I said, I said nothing to anybody about it. I just did it. I think that probably for several years a number of people thought that I was a member of the Communist Party, or at least friendly lo it. A number of people didn't think.so because when they asked me, they got a direct answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am very much interested in your statement with regard to the effort of V. J. Jerome to censor or review the project that you had worked on.
Mr. LYTTON. I wish I could help you, Mr. Tavenner, but the only thing that V. J. Jerome censored in the way of a project was an idea I had for a mobile theater to go around the country, and he thought it would take too much money. You see, I was told that V. J. Jerome agreed-when I happened to meet V. J. Jerome under different circumstances, it was in regard to a project for a mobile theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us about the occasion when you met him.
Mr. LYTrON. This was in 1936, I believe, and I had come out to Hollywood to raise money for a project that was dear to me. I wanted to send mobile theaters throughout the country. I was a theater director at the time, as well as writing scripts. I was put in contact with V. J. Jerome. I was told I had to clear my matter through him. This was just before the other incident of which I spoke. I met him in front of Schwab's drugstore in Laurel Canyon on Sunset Boulevard here in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you say that you were told you had to clear the matter through V. J. Jerome?
Mr. LYTTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us what the circumstances were of that.
Mr. WALTER. About when was this?
Mr. LYTTON. 1936.
Mr. WALTER. In the fall?
Mr. LYrrow. No, sir, it would be summer, I think. No, it was Easter. I recall because I was going to school again at the time, as well. I came out here during the Easter vacation.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you advise the committee who suggested that the matter should be cleared through V. J. Jerome?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir, I cannot advise you of that, because I honestly can't do that. I do not recall. I recall that I discussed the matter with the New Theater League in New York and that somebody there said, "Well, when you get to the coast, you better see V. J. Jerome." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 389 
Mr. TAVENNER. That suggestion came from New York, not from Los Angeles?
Mr. LTToN. That is correct. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. Will you proceed, please?
Mr. LTTrON. Well, I saw Mr. Jerome there. I was given a telephone number to call. I called it and he arranged to meet me in front of Schwab's drugstore. I described the project to him. He said it was very good. He said it was swell and if I wanted to raise the money for it, fine, but that any of their people out here, any of the contacts they had and so forth, they preferred that I left them alone, because there were worthier purposes for their money.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, that is an interesting point. Was that an indication to you that there were persons in Hollywood assisting V. J. Jerome in putting across the projects that he was interested in?
Mr. LYTroN. Well, that would be a conclusion on my part. It is a reasonable one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive any further information from V. J. Jerome or from any other source?
Mr. LYTTON. No, I did not.
Mr. TAVENNEE. As to just what projects V. J. Jerome was interested in putting across?
Mr. LTTON. No, sir, I did not. Specifically, in regard to my mobile theater project.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, have you any direct information as to what groups or individuals he wanted saved for his own projects instead of being utilized in the sponsorship of your project?
Mr. LYTToN. Mr. Jerome didn't tell me. He just told me that he wouldn't make any contacts for me out here, that was all, I was on mnV own.
Mr. SCHERER. May I ask a question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. SCHERER. Whom did you understand that Mr. Jerome was representing at the time he said to you that he didn't want these mobile units to beMr. LYTTON. Well, I presume that he was representing out here the Communist Party, but I wasn't put in contact directly in that regard. I knew his name, after all. It was not a name unknown to me. His name appeared often enough in the Daily Worker and the New Masses and so forth.
Mr. TAVENNER. You had met V. J. Jerome prior to that time?
Mr. LYTTON. No, sir. I have only met him once.
Mr. TAVENNER. The occasion that you described to us when you met him in regard to a play in New York, I thought was a different occasion.
Mr. LYTTON. This was a different occasion, Mr. Tavenner, but I did not meet Mr. V. J. Jerome. I was told that V. J. Jerome agreed.
Mr. TAVENNER. So this is the only occasion on which you actually met him?
Mr. LTrTON. That is right, to the best of my recollection.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you stated that you were advised in New York to get in touch with V. J. Jerome here, and that you were given his telephone number.
Mr. LTrroN. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood that. 1747-5.-nt 1- 390 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. LYrrON. That is right; yes. 
Mr. TAVENNEE. Can you tell the committee who it was?
Mr. LrTTON. No, I don't recall who told me specifically. I know that I had discussed-I had written articles for the New Theater League magazine, New Theater. I sometimes went to the offices of the New Theater League, and somebody there, I discussed the project with somebody there, and somebody said, "Now look, here is how to do it. When you get out there, you get in touch with V. J. Jerome. If he likes it and clears it, you will be put in contact with money."
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Lytton, I would like to interrupt your testimony at just his moment to make one matter clear. It is a thing that has frequently occurred. We have subpenaed witnesses before and then found out there were two people by the same name, or very similar names.
Mr. LYTTON. I am glad you brought that up because I thought of a chap that bears virtually the same name as I bear.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think in fairness to both of youMr. LrTTON. Mr. Tavenner, last week I tried to find his name in the telephone book and I couldn't locate it. We decided perhaps he was out of town or something. I wanted to call him and tell him I was going to appear and perhaps he would like to join the audience and tell a few things. I don't know him. I have never met him. I have seen his name in trade papers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that Herbert Lytton?
Mr. LYTrro. That's right. He is on radio.
Mr. TAVENNER. He is a screenwriter also at the present time ?
Mr. LTTrroN. Is he? I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. He may be a radiowriter.
Mr. LTrroN. If he is, I hope that he is getting some use out of my old credit.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you are not in the same field of endeavor at this time.
Mr. LYTTroN. I don't know the man. I have seen his name in the trade papers. Naturally, I was struck with it, Herbert Lytton.
Mr. TAVENNER. There should be no excuse for anyone confusing the two of you because you are not in the screenwriting business at this time at all.
Mr. LYTTON. I am not in the screenwriting business or in any form of writing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Lytton, you have described your experience up until the time that you withdrew from the Communist Party, after an experience of a matter of months within the party. Can you fix the approximate date when you withdrew from the Communist Party in New York?
Mr. LTrrN. No, sir. That would be hard to do. It was about the period that I told you.
Mr. TAVENNER. That period was approximately when?
Mr. LTrroN. I would think about 1937, perhaps 1936. I would have to go back and look at historical events in order to place it, because to some extent that is how I would be able to fix it, but I don't recall. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 391 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I understand you correctly to say that it may have been a matter of a year and a half or more from that time until you became interested again in any way in the Communist Party?
Mr. LYTTON. It was much longer than that, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Suppose you tell us about that.
Mr. LTrroN. Well, I continued writing. I began to get assignments here and there, and began to build my career. I came out to Hollywood in 1940 with the objective of establishing myself as a screen writer. I was in the process of writing a play and I had the play pretty well set forth, I should say, and a writer now dead, who was not the grand Pooh-Bah of the Communist Party out here but who was their darling, one of their 2 or 3 darlings, but he is now deceased and I would rather not be asked his name.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will not ask you.
Mr. LrTroN. Though he was well known, he had been a very prominent writer during the 1920's. He had been considered a very promising, rather than prominent, novelist, and I told him about my play. He became quite excited about it and be said, "I think that I can get this thing on the boards of New York in 6 months." He then suggested a collaboration. I learned later that this, of course, was a common suggestion. At the time, I was a little taken back. It seems that he was an experienced writer. He had written many shows for pictures. He told me his many virtues, and he had them, incidentally, as a writer. At the particular period of his life he had everything but the willingness to work. He suggested we collaborate. He said he had a producer ready, and he said that the producer ready was a man who had subsidized at one particular time Jet Harris in New York and that Jet Harris would probably direct the play. After considerable time considering the matter, I think probably 24 hours, I decided that it might be a good thing and that he could teach me a great deal about the craft of playwriting, and that I would work with him. He invited me to move to his residence. (Representative Harold H. Velde reentered the hearing room at this point, 11: 40 a. m.) He invited me to move to his residence in Hollywood and to. work under very nice material circumstances. He produced the money necessary for the writing of the play and I was put on a deal where I was to receive $50 a week during the course of the writing for a specified period of time, a contract that was never completely lived up to, but that is neither here nor there at this moment. We worked on the play and we engaged in many arguments about its meaning, about its ideology. The play was simple and it was about people. He would argue with me that it just didn't have the political sharpness in it that it should have. I would argue in return that I considered myself a writer and I certainly wanted to continue to be a writer and I thought that that was an inhibitory process, "Let me write the play" being my argument, and "What must come out, let it come out." He would inhibit me and he would desire to see page after page, and then there would be these frantic arguments about the meaning of lines ahd the meaning of scenes and so forth, and webecame quite unhappy in the course of it. 392 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well now, are you describing a situation which was criticized possibly at a later period when Albert Maltz took the position at first that writing should not be-his art should not be used as a weapon, and then later reversed himself on the point?
Mr. LYTTON. Well, let's say that there is some relationship in problems here. I don't know that my position was that art shouldn't be used as a weapon. It was simply that I wanted to write the play as I felt it, and if it proved to be a weapon, fine, because it would be a weapon for whatever I believed in. I wasn't concerned with sitting down and writing-the term then used was "agit prop." I wanted to write what I wanted to write and let people find in it what they found in it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What you were writing or proposing to write did not meet with the approval ofMr. LTTrro. Of this writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of this writer who was looking at it from the Communist Party standpoint?
Mr. LrTToN. I don't know. He was a very, let's say a very circumspect man, and he had a reason to be, and he would always refer to the "movement" and never to the Communist Party. However, he suggested to me very strongly, he said, "I understand you were around the movement in New York 4 or 5 years ago. You ought to be back in." We didn't agree on that. Following this disagreement, we had many about the script itself. The play was called Big With Tomorrow at the time and there were disagreements with it. I had been asked by him to rejoin the movement, as he put it. I didn't. He told me that I was foolish, that if I wanted a career in Hollywood I would have to sharpen my thinking, that this was a particularly perilous time in world history; those arguments and so forth. Additionally, that I would have an opportunity, if I became a Communist, to meet and work with the best minds out here. This would sharpen me as a writer and be valuable to me. But I refused. About a week later I was told, "The honeymoon is over. The play will not be produced." That was the end of that particular episode. Now, I think, Mr. Tavenner, I will have to go back here. Your question was, How did I happen to once again rejoin for a time?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. And in stating your reasons and how it occurred, we are very much interested in all the efforts that were made to bring you into the party and any other experience you had in connection with the party.
Mr. LTTrrN. Very well. I worked in Hollywood-I got my-I started to earn, earned my living at the time doing what is called fact stories, factuals. Factuals are stories that appear in the factual, so-called factual magazines. I was given a press card by Country Press, and I did a large number of these stories to earn my living. At that time I was a 6-cent-a-word writer. That was a very high price, because it started at about a half a cent. It was a prolific period for me, and I was concerned, first, with these fact stories and from there-I joined a Radio Writers' Guild and got some small radio assignments. The Radio Writers' Guild sent me down to work for the Motion Picture Democratic Committee. They said there was a job open down there to do radio publicity, time slots and so forth. I had COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 393 had considerable experience in that previously. There was a job there at the then magnificent salary of $35 a week. I looked at it, however, as a chance to get in radio here. I went down and took the assignment. The Motion Picture Democratic Committee at that time had been the Democratic committee of the Communist Party in Hollywood. There was a split on the Finland question. At that time Helen Gahagan Douglas led a group of people out of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee because the people in control of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee were attacking our stand on Finland. I went to work for the Motion Picture Democratic Committee at that time and I lasted 4 or 5 weeks there. There was a campaign going on and I didn't understand the issues of the campaign, and I was disturbed by the fact that I was for Roosevelt and the committee wasn't. I said, "This is a job and it doesn't make any difference; I will try to listen to this and see what it is about." I was vaguely disturbed about it at the time and I became more and more uneasy. And the period that followed, I worked for a number-I got a reputation as knowing this particular kind of work in terms of getting agencies of one kind and another on the radio. There was no TV at the time. I worked for a number of agencies as a professional during their-I worked-I did work for Red Cross, for Navy Relief, for China War Relief, for Russian War Relief and for USO. I was paid in this period, and my salary kept going up as a paid publicity director or public-relations director, or I was brought in for a special assignment. During this period I didn't have-when I came to Russian War Relief, I should say, I was surprised to find that the membership of Russian War Relief was composed of non-Communist people, definitely who weren't for communism. It was composed of people against Hitler. There were many White Russians in it, who at that time were for the fatherland or the motherland, or whatever it is, the whole way. There were others that believed we should help an ally in the war. It looked to me like it was getting pretty respectable to speak up for Russia. By 1942 I was working in motion-picture studios. I had sold a script and began to work in motion-picture studios.
Mr. TAVNNER. At that point what screen credits did you have
Mr. LYTroN. You know, this is the most embarrassing question you have asked me yet. I only mean that some of them I would like to forget. My first picture was called "Tomorrow We Live." It was produced by Seymour Nebenzahl. My second picture, as I recall, was called "Spy Train," and it had to do with German spies aboard a train here attempting to commit sabotage. It was produced by King. My third was "Bowery to Broadway," an all-star, big musical, and that was at Universal where I worked right straight through, story, screenplay and so forth. I think I am in chronological order here. My next picture wasthe title escapes me now. Maybe I want to forget that picture. I 394 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AKLA didn't like the way it came out. The title escapes me, but I will recall it. It was-I think it was called "Follow Your Heart," and that was at RKO. But I don't think it was released under the title of "Follow Your Heart." It was released under another title. It was a story of a little war refugee who comes to America and loves it. I also did a picture on the story of Ledice, Czechoslovakia, the wiping out of that town, the monstrous wiping out of that village by the Nazis. This picture was considered a very fine job all around. I think that about covers-the rest of my screen credits were the typical credits for additional dialogue and a lot of typical picture doctoring.
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you to have you give us an idea of the screen credits you had. You were telling us about your interest in Russia at this particular time when you were writing scripts for the movies.
Mr. LYTTON. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed, please.
Mr. LYTTON. In 1944, during the summer of 1944, just before that, at the end of 1943 my family had learned officially of the death of my brother in action. He was a B-17 chauffeur in the Mediterranean, action over the Mediterranean. I was quite disturbed by this time. All my brothers were in action, and I wanted to be. I was quite disturbed at the time, I think, over the going of the war; and, like countless millions of Americans, I was praying for every possible victory that the Russians could have. They put up a fine defense at Stalingrad and had impressed the world. In 1944 I was working at RKO Studios, at the time that Henry Wallace was still Vice President of the United States and was up for renomination. He got 510 votes or something of the sort, but he didn't quite make it. I liked Wallace. I thought at that time that Henry Wallace was a fine kind of American and my kind of American. He didn't get the nomination. I lost $50 in a bet with another writer. I recall it very well. He didn't get the nomination, and this additionally bothered me. I said, "Well, look, I think the people wanted Wallace. That is the way I read it. The people wanted Wallace and they didn't get Wallace." At that time I was approached-wasn't approached-to tell it more correctly, I was seated in another writer's office. I was in the directors' building at RKO. I went in for a chat, as people do on the lot, into another writer's office, and we were talking about his script. It was a comedy. It had to do with women. By that I mean, more specifically, it had to do with the role of women in society, so to speak: should they or shouldn't they have careers, and so forth. He started, entered discussions about the meaning of this script. We had a long and interesting discussion about what it meant. He suddenly looked at me and he said, "Why aren't you one of us?" At the first moment I thought he meant the guild; for just about one moment. I said "I am." He said "No; you are not." I said "Oh," like Don. I said "I didn't have too happy an experience. I just don't see it is for me. I don't like it, really." COMMUTNBTACTIVITIt S IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 395 He asked me why, and I gave my reasons. He said, "Well now, look, Bart, times have changed. The party has changed. It isn't sectarian now. It has a big, broad base and you have these objections to it. Now, you are a reasonable man. Why don't you come and take a look and see if it is what you think it is." We argued that out for a while. He knew of my disturbances that I just mentioned, how I felt about them. He used them. And I said, "Well, I don't know. Maybe I will give it a try. I don't know." I didn't commit myself. About a week passed and he came back to me and he said, "Say, what is this about you?" I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "Well, I understand you were expelled." I said, "Expelled from what?" He said, "From the Communist Party." I said, "Not to my knowledge; no, of course, I wasn't." He said, "I understand there were a lot of charges against you and you were expelled back in New York in 1936." I said, "Why, that is a lot of poppycock. I walked away." He said, "Well, that is the story." And he said, "Brother, if I were you I would get that cleared up, because if you don't get that cleared up your name is mud in this town."
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was it that you were conferring with
Mr. LYTTON. George Beck.
Mr. WALTER. When was that?
Mr. LYTTON. 1944, I would say approximately August or September.
Mr. WALTER. I mean when he said "Your name is mud in this town." 
Mr. LYTTON. He didn't say it is. He said it would be.
Mr. WALTER. Unless you had this cleared up.
Mr. LYTTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Beck has appeared, as you know, as a witness before this committee.
Mr. LTrTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And he testified as to Communist Party membership and his subsequent withdrawal from the Communist Party.
Mr. WALTER. Was it the fact that at that time, unless you were active in the Communist Party, your opportunity to progress in your profession was hurt?
Mr. LYTTON. I am not prepared to answer by just saying it was or it wasn't a fact, Congressman, because my own experience, which will follow, was so short that I haven't knowledge as to whether it was a fact at that time. I am willing to testify as to what happened to me.
Mr. WALTER. But it was a fact at that time if you were a member of the Communist Party your opportunities were enhanced?
Mr. L TTON. I don't know if they were enhanced or they weren't enhanced. I do know that naturally; we will say if you belong to the right fraternity your fraternity brothers are going to give you a lift, and that you can just take for granted if you belong to the Elks and there are a lot of Elks in an industry, whatever it may be, you are going to have certain opportunities enhanced. 396 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA But I am not prepared to answer in terms of whether that was a fact at that time. I was told that it was a fact, but I have no evidence it was a fact nor, incidentally, did I give one hoot.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Counsel, I believe this would be an appropriate place to recess at this time. Before recessing, the Chair would like to make a statement for the benefit of the viewing audience. This morning I ordered that television be cut off during the testimony of Mr. Huebsch, who was represented by Mr. Esterman as counsel. This order was based on the ruling that the committee made last Monday, in answer to a motion that was submitted by Mr. Esterman, in which he demanded that all television equipment be removed and that as long as his witness, Mr. Huebsch, was on, the proceedings should not be televised. Now, there are some very serious legal problems involved in this hearing. The committee recognized that fact and without any idea in mind, I am sure, of depriving the public of tis important information, acceded to the witness' demands and request, and accordingly we necessarily had to ask the television cameras to desist from further televising the proceedings. We hope this will not happen again, but if it does, of course, I hope the public understands that it is because we are not only trying to be fair, entirely fair to the witnesses, but because of certain legal problems involved in this process. We will be in recess until 2 o'clock. (Thereupon, at 12 noon, the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at 2 p. m., same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (At the hour of 2:10 p. m., of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, Representatives Harold H. Velde (chairman), Donald L. Jackson, Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scherer, Francis E. Walter (appearance noted in transcript), Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, and James B. Frazier, Jr., being present.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order. Let the record show that a full quorum of the committee is present. The Chair wishes to announce that the hearing which we had this morning will be continued until tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock, due to the fact we have other witnesses we would like to hear at this time.
Mr. Counsel, do you have a witness to call?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Joe Springer.
Mr. VELDE. In the testimony you are about to give before this committee, do you solemnly swear you will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. SPRINGER. I do.
Mr. VELDE. Before any questions are asked of the witness, I should like to make a statement. The committee, during the course of its current investigation in California, has developed information that recently there was held at Crestline, Calif., a secret Communist Party school. According to the information available at this time, the school was held during the weekend of December 5 to 7, 1952, at a place called Camp Tenaya. The committee has ascertained this camp, which is closed during the winter months, is under the operation of Joe and Preva Springer. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 397 It has further been ascertained the Communist Party school held there was not an ordinary school, but one of great importance. This school was only for Communist Party functionaries and was held upon the direction of high Communist Party officials. Also in attendance at this school, in addition to the Springers, was Max Klansky and Walter Smith, both of whom have been identified to the committee as members of the Communist Party.
Mr. MOULDER. Will the Chair yield to me the opportunity to interrogate and cross-examine the witness on this subject?
Mr. VELDE. If the gentleman will wait until I finish my statement, I will be glad to yield to him first. Also it is of particular concern that this school was one of a series of new schools to be held by the Communist Party for the purpose of issuing directives to infiltrate shops in key industries, and in particular, defense establishments. It is alleged that this school was concluded with an announcement that a dictatorship of the proletariat would take over immediately after a revolution to secure power, and that it would be necessary for the party comrades to safeguard against the resurgence of capitalism. The announcement also pointed out it had taken the Soviet Union 27 years to accomplish this purpose. The witness Joe Springer has been called to assist the committee in verifying this information regarding the school at Crestline. Now I yield the floor to the gentleman from Missouri, Mr. Moulder.
Mr. JACKSON. Would the gentleman yield for a moment ?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. Does the witness object to both the video and the audio part of the television?
Mr. SPRINGER. I do.
Mr. JACKSON. The request is made that neither be used during the course of his testimony ?
Mr. SPRINGER. That is correct.
Mr. VELDE. The committee will be in recess for 5 minutes. (Short recess was taken.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will be in order.
Mr. SPRINGER. Mr. ChairmanMr. VELDE. Let the record show at this point that present are
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. Frazier, and the chairman, Mr. Velde. A quorum of the full committee.
Mr. SpringerMr. SPRINGER. Mr. Chairman, may I make a request? The light bothers me.
Mr. VELDE. As I understand it, I would like to get the picture clear, as far as television is concerned, what you do object to and what you don't object to. Do you object if the television cameras do not turn their lights toward you or photograph you during the course of the hearing? If they are allowed to continue and make photographs of other parts of the room and other people in the audience, including members of the committee, but they are ordered not to turn their lens directly toward you, do you have any objection to that?
Mr. SPRINGER. The lights would bother me. I understand that television, you have to have a certain amount of equipment; and, therefore, the lights would bother me; and, if you don't mind, I would like 398 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA the lights off. Therefore, I don't think you would be able to televise without lights.
Mr. CLARDY. Suppose the lights were turned away from the witness, and it would be some relief up here, too, from the heat, but if we turn them to the back, away from you, would you have any objection?
Mr. SPRINGER. Mr. Congressman, I prefer that the television would be off.
Mr. VELDE. By that, you mean both audio and video ?
Mr. SPRINGER. Correct.
Mr. VELDE. The Chair is constrained to grant the request of the witness, in view of the vote of the committee on this matter. And again I wish to say to the television audience that we regret that it is necessary to ask the television company to turn their cameras off at this point. The meeting will proceed. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Missouri, Mr. Moulder.
Mr. SPRINGER. Can we get those lights off, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. We will suspend until the lights are turned off.
Mr. MOULDER. After hearing the statement by the chairman, my particular interest was directed to your, case and the testimony you are about to give, especially because in my congressional district we have a number of summer camps. I understand you are the owner of a summer camp ?
Mr. SPRINGER. Mrs. Springer and myself are the owners of the camp.
Mr. MOULDER. Information has been carried to me on the subject which I am about to interrogate you on.
Mr. SCHERER. I can't hear you.
Mr. VELDE. Will the gentleman yield to identify the witness and counsel ? TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH SPRINGER, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, WILLIAM B. ESTERMAN Mr. Moflltt, who was liei yestoloday, IN elgaild in the alluorll out today, 111111ihis Il%%- pile!mr. fr.Lytt on, at Ole t iwot yoiir lestiiaoiy wasN coil. tfinued over until today,6okwere telling ,I No coilliniittet abLout all 0XVpIiOIWOi that i'oii hadiin I.As A ngtilem. "oU were advising tile coniniittee that In1talking to a m(ere(n writer fr.TAVNNN1. the stittll)(tUt WIIs IaIIle, to you to Illh get1er1 eeelc, "WIly doll't, you colnie ii and hcoine ono Of Itst" (]tlepisentativo ]cit Clardy onltfed -lie hearing rooli fit this point, M. '1AVCNN i. And I belitee you wor-e considering that for a period of tOne and the individual cauno haeic to you auid 1a'o a statement; to the general efrect that lie liun(derstool that yOU had been exPolled froil the Collulililst ]1arty inNew York anl that relatedd it situation which you ought to get, ceared ilp. You stated further that during the course of the conversation this person iuade reference to the fact that if you didn't get this cleared up your uaUe would be "Mud" in this comnnu11ity. I asked you who made that statement to you and you said Mr. George Beck. Now, the expression that you made about the necessity of clearing up of this matter else your name would be "Mud" in this community has been interpreted in some sources as having constituted a threat on the part of George Beck as it means or a weapon to compel you to come into the party. If that is true, I want you to state so clearly, and if it isn't true, if that isn't the correct interpretation of your testimony, I would like for you to clarify that.
Mr. L-rrov . Well, George Beck is about as threatening as the St. Louis Browns. No, sir, George Beck was not threateiiing me. I didn't take it as a threat. I took it quite differently at the time and I would again conclude today that his purpose was not, to threaten me, Mr. Tavenner. His purpose was to advise me. That was the manner in which he approached it and that is the manner in which he handled it straight firough, because more than tlat occurred. George's attitude at the time, and he and I are friends, and although I haven't seen George for many, many years, his attitude seemed to COMMUNIWV A(TIVVITII* IN 'IMI 1AI4 ANOI.GHd ARICA 441 be "lhiis 191ot, good( for yol. ThiO will hat you, will, hurt, your career'. Yolll naime i Mud, Why dol'ty.0 1omething o about it?" But t Mr. To'i velillel, before I go any furtlher in regard to) this, I would like to gilt a little 11111ll'1, oif of lily ln(linI regitrd 1A)an ici- d4'n thitat (oe urre(d olily elli(liIlg tie room tllis ior liltg s 
Mr. WAI/rv-lt. Before yfu go ill toh Ii' it nllty I.gill 1 ,right in lily own Illilid: Wailti. fl Wias lolling yolu Wils tl111L ino fialerility brotlher were get tilng ile 1hot of it, isn't that It? M'. LVI'rON,, Y41. Maiy I silllk 0n tohn ch (11'l, alttde,?
Mr. l)ov,H. What, was yomr lllsWl'e' You tiodhed y3lilr 1141(. 
Mr. Lrzor. Yes sir. Wihell I el1tled tile room thi morning, itrather nice-looking grty. hialired youig woniit11itI(I, "Sliltlnle oil you." 8 e Hill led wIenI411 1411Id ly ,1 it. ( ,1110, litoo)le ,( , "ShaIlio oil file for what?" and she said, "1For be fig a H1061 pigeotl." I said, "Slll8lllo 4)1l yOll cll 11ii fll$s s t iS ly I fiel." I feel very ollrry for suhll 1tll 11111 .111 oi'ry fi*ll heI Ihely lickileS4 he1 thicllheadedness thuit illa~iloplIe. t111Pmt, osill foit101n9 {like. orililt, thi111k thlat i)rinpi19 tl.4ey Olight o know that tliey do not intimidate people any ongelr by tis device. It is tired an(l worn out; the vast Bulk of tile American people express thenselves quite differently. There was it 10117)11011 (-fill I ~Ot, last hlij ItI, 01' ,yestei'da11 afternoon1 from Stiff D~iego$ f0rom it Mr's. liriy H06% , whioi I (lon t know a1 whio (!erfailll wits 11o (0'9)ek1lf. IioI wait phlasan~t. womanp who told mie site hItaril my testimony yestari'dy. Th'1is encouraged fie. There wero inany other 09I19 received. I tOink it, is well thit flw I, people know that by the use of terms like "stA)ol pigeon," "link," aid "informer," and No forth, they brand themselves quite correctly its those involved in It conspiracy. I wits never iti a conspiracy, and therefore I can never be a stool l)lgoll.
Mr. WAIT:I. Biut more than that, don't they admit by tile ise of HIIch teirln lirtcyI that thly fire parties to some sort of ILn unlawful con. 
Mr. ,i- o'zx?. I would rather think so. I would reach rather tile Name conclusion and inference from it.
Mr. CL.AnD. Did you ever hear tile word "stool pigeon" used in connection with anything other than criminal . ...
Mr. Lr -roN. No, sir.
Mr. CLARDY. Isn't that the normal use of that word I You call a man itstool pigeon because )e is telling the authorities of something that has been done of an unlawful nature.
Mr. Lyro)N. Well, I think that the term has been used a bit more broadly than that, Congressman. I think that sometimes it is used in labor circles in regard to anyone who talks to even management incertain instances.
Mr. CJJARY. But you generally find a red taint in connection with tile use of that word by that person; do you not I
Mr. Lyvrox. Well, I didn't know that the people referred specifically to a conspiracy. I can only say that to le it clearly is evidence of a feeling of conspiracy.
Mr. CLAnRmy. They certainly are not on our side.
Mr. Lrro;. Let us put it that way. 442 COMMNIST ACTIVITIES IN TIM LOS ANGLES AREA 
Mr. TAVfENNER. As a result of the various experiepces that you had In Hollywood, after you arrived here, did you finally unite with the Communist Party again? Air. Lrr.N. Well, let me continue In regard to the last question and this question, because we have a basic continuity there. I want to reiterate, so there is no question about it, that George Beck didn't threaten me. (leorge Beck was counseling me to the best of his knowledge and belief that this is what would happen. I think that. George Beck would corrloborite at any time that he said it to me and that he advised me to handle the matter by clearing these charges up. Ho pointed out at the time that if charges like this were bandied about, that not only the members of the Coinmunist Party, but that liberals and nanny people who had no particular politics would hear vatgute and disturbing things about me, or perhaps specific things, and that they would then consider me anathema, to their to their way of living or their principles or anything else. And he felt that the waves of such a reaction could be disastrous to my career and to my sense of well-being, because my first response was "Oh, chuck it; I am not going to do anything about it." After several conversations on the matter, I had to conclude it was important. I was angry about it, and ns more came to me my anger mounted. It was based on no facts. It was based on neither evidence nor what proved later to be factual, so I began to set to work with a will. I was put in contact with an Elizaheth Glenn. 1 was given to understand that she was in a membership capacity in the Coxmunist Party in Hollywood.
Mr. TAvENNER. Did site have another name at that time, to your knowledge?
Mr. Lrrow. You know, I may have given the wrong name there. Is it LeechI
Mr. TAvvNNmR. Our information is she was known at different times by both of those names, Glenn and Leech.
Mr. LyTToN. I see. I don't recall. I know I have heard both references, and I don't know her. I was put in contact with her by Beck, and she reviewed the story with me. She told me that there were a number of charges leveled against me in New York. I had done everything, apparently, but set fire to my mother. She stated that I had been expelled from the party, according to the best of their knowledge, and that I had been considered as unreliable, a provocateur-a term frequently bandied about-and that I had stolen a typewriter from the Communist Party headquarters and had pawned same, and that I had deserted the party. The party likes faithful lovers and many other things. I don't even recall them all: Now, if she said that I deserted the party, I said, "Well, this is true." But as to the typewriter incident, there was no truth in it whatsoever. As to having been expelled, as far as I knew there was no truth in it whatsoever, and presented the charges. I asked her what I could do about it. Well, it didn't seem that I could do very much about it. I asked her if there was such a thing as a hearing. She said, well they take care of it in their own way. She said she would correspond with New York. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANORLEB AREA 448 I said, "Well, you ought to know something next week." She said, "No, it will be longer than that." Many months went by and- I became more and more agitated, because now a process began. People previously friendly to me were no longer friendly. I would arrange to have dinner with friends, my wife and I, and at the lost minute the dinner date would be canc4ed. I would walk into gild meethgM and backs would be turned if I went to enter the conversations avid I became very agitated at this. It is not pleasant, and I still didn't fully understand it. I understood the emanation of it. I meant to say that I wits not equipped to handle it at this time. It therefore became a struggle on my part, I should say, and a very important one, to clear these particular charges. I wasn't concerned at that time with the issue of the Communist Party. I was concerned with the fact that apparently a rumor factory and a very competent rumor factory wts at work. Ohe incident brought it into its sharpest focus. I had been a proliflic provider of material for USO camp shows. As a matter of fact, I believe, I was told by the USO that I wrote more camp show material than auy other writer in the United States, and was commended by them for that. Some of my sketches had played to as many, I wits told, as 6 million meni. It seemed like an awful lot to me. And I doubted it, but nevertheless I knew they were played to many, many Army camps and installations throughout-where tightinF forces were stationed. rilhe USO w~as trying to .get comedy material unslanted, and they arranlgedl at the Screen Writers' Guild-not the Screen Writers' Guild, the 11ollywood Writers' 11obilization-to have an evening in which theT would showv the kind of material that they wanted. 'I hey gave me what was to the Communist the kiss of death. It shows my material as unslanted material. That evening Carole Landis and Fay McKenzie and Ed Lorre who ran USO camp shows, entertainment division came down together with others--I don't recall whom-to the ollywood-Roosevelt Hotel, and they played these sketches. Now, this one sketch was the forerunner of a type of sketch that has become tiresome enough since. It was a psychiatric sketch. At the time there hadn't been psychiatrist sketches of this character. It was a very funny sketch, and it had played already with teams taking it out and stars requesting to take it out, even though it had ben old material by this time, they still wanted to take it out to military installations. The sketch was played, and most of the writers present sat on their hands. They didn't laugh, they didn't applaud, they didn't like it. This was rather unusual, in view of the fact that by that time several hundred thousand American 01's had laughed their heads off at the sketch. And these were supposed to be judges of material. It was brought in because it was to be the top laugh producer that the USO had in its repertoire. They sat on their hanas, and I was deeply agitated by this. I began to feel by this time that I was involved in a crusade. I hadn't done what was charged. The feelings at that time were not political; they were personal. I wanted to clear a name and be able to work again and work in peace. 444 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TILE LOS ANGELES AREA I don't know how many months ensued. It dissolves, as you sy in motion-picture terminology. But lots of time elapsed. In the course of this time I did everything that I know to do to clear the so-called charges. Subsequently I was engad to do a documentary fl m by Prince. ton Film Center, the Rockefeller Foundation subsidizing it, in Gloucester, Mass., on war shipbuilding. I wont up there and did the film and came back through Now York. In New York I went to Communist Party headquarters on 13th Street, and I told them my story. I told them that there was this story extant on the west coast, that it wasn't true, and I wanted them to produce for me any records which indicated any truth in these particular charges. q I also said to them, "If these charges are true, would you have a record I" They said, "Oh, certainly, we would. If the charges are true, believe me, we will have them.I About a half hour passed and a girl came to me who introduced herself as an organization secretary, I believe, I don't recall. In sviy event, I was taken to another floor. I waited some more. 8he came back down and told me, "Not only are there no charges against you, but somebody up stairs knew you who says you are a md hty fine fellow." She said, "No; we have no record whatsoevere and, therefore there wouldn't be any truth in these charges." I said, "Well, they seem to believe it in the West." She said, "Well, that is pretty far away. What do you want us to do about it I" I said, "For heaven's sake, lot them know that these charges are untrue and tell them to stop their rumor factory." She said, "We will be very glad to." I appreciated that. I came back to the coast. I got in touch with the same people. No word from New York. More time went on months. Finally, apparently there was word from New York. I aon't know what oiircuitous routes it took, whether it came out by carrier pigeons or how, but, in any event, apparently the word came out at that time that I was cleared in New York and that the charges were groundless. This Elizabeth Leech Glenn again contacted me and told me that I was cleared and they regretted very much the fact that I had been so badly treated as a result of It, she was sorry, and she sent a rather inept public-relations officer, I might say, to see me at my home, who explained that in revolutionary situations the innocent must die with the guilty, it is just too bad. "We are sorry, fellow, that this hap. pened to you. We are sorry that for a year and a half now," or a year, whatever the time was, "we understand, it is awful," she said. "Once up in Michigan the same thing happened to me, I was called a renegade," she said, "a Trotskyite, and some kind of deviationist." She said, "I lived through that, and I know what it is and I understand," and so forth. "And it is too bad, but you mustn't have any ill feeling toward the party. You must understand it. You must be a Bolshevik."
Mr. TAvrsmm. Do you recall the name of the emissary that came to see you I COMMUNIST ACTIVITIPA IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 445 
Mr. Ln rox. Her name and her face blotted out from my memory, I think instantly. I found it itparticularly painful interview, I didn't like it.; I was tincoinfortable and tlnhappy about it. I have novel, seen her before or since. I can only state that sho stated site was from Michigan. More than that I do not know. As a matter of fact, she didn't give me a name. I might make that point clear, Mr. Tavenner. People are not necessarily intro. duced to each other formally in tile Communist Party, and first names are often used. You will learn a name, but you are not necessarily brought up to itperson and someone doesn't say "Comrade So-andSo, meet Cotnlrado So-and-So." It isn't done th1is way, at least in this short experience that I had. So I don't know who sihe was.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, may I a4sk a question itthis point? . I
Mr. VE,.,. Yes.
Mr. JACKsON. YoU were told dutrin the ciurise of this interview that in the process of itrevolution the innocent sometimes had to stiffer along with the guilty. Did that strike you as being inconsistent with the party line as it generally operates? This hysterical cry of smear that you hear from the Commuists, from tile fellow-traieling press, this hysterical dentnciation of committees of this kind, simply beeau tiii tile course of tile investigation sometimes, as happened yesterday, an innocent name is mentioned, which the committee attempts on all occasions to correct immediately, but, still this cry goes on, "(m.uil by asso(eiltion, Faseists, witehhunting, everyred baiting," were, according to yoir statement, they accept its day practice tile fact that a lot of innocent people are going to get hurt during this revolutionary period. This seems to me to be itvery glaring inconsistency in what they say and what they practice. That is not a question. It is simply an observation, because it made a marked impression on me. The comrades talk out of one side of their mouth about one thing, and out of the other about something else.
Mr. Lyr'roN. Well, Congressman Jackson, for a long time I wanted to say, "I dig you, Jackson," Laughter.]
Mr. VFtmWE. May we be Inorder, please.
Mr. Ly'roN. I would say if you.are trying to pinpoint one incon. sistency to the Communist Party, it might take us longer than your terms in Congress to pinpoint all the inconsistencies in thie Communist Party and its line.
Mr.JACKsoN. Tie committee has been working for many years to pinpoint a few of them. However, this is an important one.
Mr. LYrroN. I think so. I think it is a very important one. You and I are of a different political stripe. I am a Democrat and you are a Republican.
Mr. JACKsON. That is the hallmark of America.
Mr. LYTroN. Nonetheless, we can sit and discuss our differences, and we have; not you and 1,but a couple of Republicans have with me, and other Democrats.
Mr. CAtry. We haven't had any differences up to date.
Mr. Lr'rro. Well, me might.
Mr. CLrWY. Don't work on it too hard.
Mr. Lymrox. No, sir. We might, I don't know. I have no fear-. 446 COMMUNITIES AC,TIVITIFB IN 'T'fll LO ANOVI,*1 ANNKA you Will Ihve troUblO with
Mr. WAI:EI. Take Ily word for it, M. Clardy Iino tim. 1If. laYroN. I hlavo no fear thit, would hold nme from quarreling Willi this oltililittoe it ally poilt I felt qlllrrel wore t'olilli., As it lIll(1 of fl(', IlIl)ll(t fiee iiiS WhOl l)l4ll.,II1K, is it violtion) of fi'e boult, t hat it, l)e01 IMlllig brooded( e lJt(l.For lIvo's saike, what, colldl be more free HjHieth ? I hvoi a mhirophone and eulie'as ald a t COI111)itt ' (If tll0 (o111i~S. oHf t110 I 1ited StIPS televiIsOill (nlln 11 , ltid lhe whole Aillelielill )libli to tolk to. %VialtIiore (olld Io free speechI Air. 801oxIIItI.I yo(1 Iwro Ioillig reall well, too.,. i)'li(e4d illW1h111, le WASHililig 1111d t'lt it gt,ti 111)nd t'h, ,1O1U1Wilit li WOt loilig A111( lie would i'gil about, it. f illink tle sfee(lh is free e titigi, itsfrtee a M r. I-I'OrN. If I 111011 WOStI)'t, 81111111el ho'I, lie would could bo I)osgibly envisaged. The moe ltl;ttltie, s0 floir iH lily V0olllfilelit Is (llee'('fle(--.I relative-ti,ll oIIin)portanit. tlilg is 111,file lit) lOt inllkiig they'll inOCetll nmstilS lter withI the gniilly. I h;arnled dio Itliat wasx i1tAlillid. ard concept. Iutidersl an(d wilt wrote I)aulllll)lets ill i11tssiit. I doll't recall exilctly whilt. Sl e said, bit I wts told so1e. thing .110 Said i riegatl' to this Iiiiitter. t wits give .(Iiotes, iltt, I vorbtimn, quotes from Lenin id others, don't. lecessiirily recall t ltheill wit reftired to Ii Stat'llient lllde by oneoliei w iosie fiulkelllberg, wil also Colisidered a Iellgllle, it is necessary to hvlle it discil)liled that. ina revolutiolnary situation it, lolshevik prty all(] ulder thi ('tlllilrn ilsimee yol can't be too s(pielnilish as to wilat ile attitude w',lIS. the iovictim. And it but I happened to I said all this was lille, wis asking a lot to ask me to be tolerant-I don't kloW-Of 12 or 15 nionths of pretty rolgh piUllislient. I sly it is difficult to project to you the kind of punisllllent, tllllt is involved. r1'.VLmTER. I think I ('at tlttdetl |t)(I itperhaps better than allyone, because ever since I had the privilege of selling to tile United States Congress tile advisability of enacting all immigration code that would protect the United Staies I have been subjected to tile same thing. As a matter of fact, to such an extent that I often wondered about tile legitimacy of ily birth. But it comes front tile same source; that is to be expected.
Mr. Ln'troN;. Well, a fellow Pennsylvanian, I can answer you in this fashion: No, sir, you did not have tile same experience. You see, tile majority of tile people you knew backed your position. The majority of the people you knew and had to work witi still respected and admired you. But tlis wasn't the case in my instance, because the story became broader and broader. And in the Screen Writers' Guild, since I had identified myself in voting consistently for a number of years with the leftists, even though I was not intile l)arty, I had voted with them on virtually every issue, and tley were fighting at that time to build a guild and they weren't political in their attitude for the guild at that time. I felt they were fighting to build a strong Screen Writers' Guild and I voted with them on issue after issue, as I recall, and I was probably COMMUNIM' A(VlIVITII04 IN TiE 1,014 ANORLETS AIlA 447 liilH of iminy muleel writers. They itlentililed widi Iohin itl W00'0i'1, l(koking for.illy c()llhlilly, .hll wVsay. - l( ftists , tle lil)i';ll.ls, frnt3 die, I ds on through to tiho Ad ftill tliei Iiill,b flllly of t hetm, wo will fify, were 10w Jil'ru ls--~iot il of aitl'lctiig ilfg heir lacks iII)oli Iile. It WU133r11 Lhau itil, It hw5 11111 Iaz11 1ot Iny work and lily clir0r. You are still Il Coiigi' i. Still a screenwriter.
Mr. 'AVKNN :f,. Will y)uf tell us Ihe result, of the correction of the mllld the irrivill Of the eilli.,4.sary froln Mrs. ('onllllllist Party'haig(. Jlllill? 'ir. I wits iskedl to--I was told I would be conAl'. LA'IrON. YPH, l I d,ihll111,1 would not, ltN thi iJilllieliv,, illy ll( hile tleite(l f'llrlh ri 1n(er, 'Oiiig h:k into thlie Ilrt~y. '1I1w ill ( eell.i I, 1 drew was that, I ]il Iltler (oi)11 back ili 11vw, to, hca.e if11did1't, why, tilel, of couls.et it, would h just, sillldy q. e. (d., thait I mu1.st have be(nl guilty, in the first J)hl(el. (IolI't renihllllil)el, it wasli't Ve,ry I was Hulb.)5'(li ifllt vollytet(li113'I first, ini(etilug would he at log-ad I wits fodIt go to ai mietig, lie home of Sill), M,oore. All'. TAYMNI'il. (,Jil you fix Ile liolie of S11u11 Afoor"? ihe iIpl)'Jox illile little of the rieetlilg lit 
Mr. LvYvroN. 1t, is very tliflicill, to do. I would say it witsMr. TAVENNER. I Iititi just Ill)i)roxilllaltly. T iN.,Approl)\ilillly, I lhilll( it wls--it, is hillrd to fix.
Mr. It was ill this period.
Mr. TAVENNER. V'emV wll. (,lotgh to be If %'Oir Ilr0- 1I1111leto0 fix it 1f111 Ply sat isfthd il your own lin(, why, jlst,proeee ti nd tell us whitt happened.
Mr. W 'Avr:i.,Approximately is all right.
Mr. LyivoN. This is why I Jim try ilg to recall it carefully. It maty have ocCurred infte fall of 1944 or it may lae occurred early in 1945, and it is difficult to remember. IifMr. TAVE NNERI. Well, whilt occurred when you went to that meetTr. LY'JrroN. I couldn't possibly tell you, since I didn't go to that meeting. I was called thIo night before the meeting was canceled. Said, "I see. When is the next meeting?" "You will be called and told." T'hat is that.
Mr. rAVENNEJ. Can you tell ,s who gave you this information I
Mr. LwroN. No. Just someone called andsaid, "Is this Bart Lytton I" "Yes." 'Bart, this is Mary," or Jane, or something like that. I don't know the name-I mean it was just the first name that was given to me on the telephone. And "I was told to contact you. The meeting is canceled." Now, I knew a Sam Moore. I hadn't been at the meeting, so I didn't know what Sam Moore's home it was. I knew it was Sam Moore on Rossmore. And I knew a Sam Moore, and I knew him as president of the Radio Writers' Guild. I saw this Sam Moore subsequently, in the next couple of weeks, and I said, "Sam, what about that meeting at your house. Why was it canceled " 448 COhtht1N:H1 At"IVITI'M IN Ti'iii ILOM ANfllelsl:H AIIO4A Ho1itIId, "Wh'iktibdou Y 1011 t'VIlt'ilt iuol 4111 V, nlet'hi'd I d, 111 (.ItItwilml, vit di ti Itid ( )h (11),Sure , I( Wits. You ijt (1e 'I-gllt ifWits,'' 1111u1 1k 04It iwiite and wasi In hop i f t'itIn titIe'o had bi'tti-toot 0 I tH~liti Iv (Ill ~ i~~ 11( itilt l ikIs wasj4I' wh111 oreur4d Iroot Iittiit thi' ~l~l~t~iI atI 'tp sto gt h'ot It' I I , fe lit Iit I IIl o , he 1111% 111thut 1 wi I, I' too s l ili 110W1111111le1111u1t And~l fIt teolW1111 III-1 vis, I waso %%It% li' %lIw i-o14) ed 11 111 tiit 111111 isu ls t 111 -111, oil iso tkll Irt wtsxt Iflte nt'l tth se w't11iog w h1111. IT uttlnddI tIlli bitlt liii' to ret tttt't t iit 11tltti l u 'ng,1111Ili 4)1w %ii' f)ho tg e 111111 t o ifi it tie i ivit111p s t g 'iiitt l hnnI' 1.4 gfiltuo s11(l ng her ets h'th.now, I hat wasm itouu' i, f1 till 111111. Andoowi IIany Clveu. I't"'vap 114loll htidI Iok WI it i T l-lI was (it III-Oill WhttI'. * Its1I s c1te11 1111( tol Iia ,u.. . lt 111 A dItik I nfxO limi eil'' tho11i'i th'ill I a odit. Owntf I-t 1'otilg he I ifittus ofltm sli ouiut f, ndo~n wha. tit. itit rai-t iit vi''i oral ito nihi' il 1111Ion s ~'~kown utit. t 1e'oiO Itt t "Iv. im Was-i" itt((low, I t iki. thlAY of 1044 1oi~~ hf mv rourt rvof .1 1 )1t llt Co ittl l iui'i 'eldI lilti e d iajit ogIlii4aou kiw %%I .'of l( li'1)t illaly vA1tf. Votlt11 I t hllt f it, l Ilvstilgitl )1111 ts tI ltidel' h l( loe il 10141 g .110 l1'hiO ;ilvdt ndw 1 llioo tht sevi'l I ht'y reaAl~ Owhev old g1(t i the ISvtin ete enite oit Now.15 ofieresntaf lefilsn'.11oltli o lil t. vo ' hll1at silr 11CfeI-;u ititrsi l l lo lill cal tim) iiit (vilo k for11111 of m stO~~itll~ v i'.ll,111W i' tlwa w11141 pyxongo ttnhr~Iobil'ov to wIllofim liet a o(II Vtl'5thttw'i'uio i.iI('ut~lert Thl fliHlos I~utsler~ and--wll le u.o" tht thewileYisterda atidwii wol,; tO b1101t. 111e1 Iave whio' alittvet'owoittu'sse wholwrael Itu ol heair, o aif. Ou kt ronf o urIs eiarkVeteh bufoble a thht flint it 11Ie will )fiat irt o ni nI twol 11ormvd111 i and rg Mn o Y ueexto. o ( rod ~it, lttern anagued hini aoth 01o uffo th ltill thiatiol, that as what. . oment ,14 hat th s o Ilist1i Pat acting hat IeEoarl oder. reSfo t olel sOly "or. I therk thi oomlit eme thgey. wMost of4 them th of(ght qititete 1oose Iof drwsterhro ea il r.dw aynied. h t as qumsitn eoioa oe I waoldlk tao s afi(,o111w roo atir (li I olarev iIC inth Aloi ifthParty PI. and e knthe that ter m e iire 11owder." I bmeoi quteadninre out.emk itsnd intc inyevbe, thy fired ing adr It uost.e it,tat wayeBodr"lteadnige h I ('ONIhItININTl ACTl'Vl'l'lV; IN 11011P, 1,09 ANOMY14~; 449) Ann,*A T or i 11-1( wfi''li ii '11ir of- litev~i iE fI imo jIE'1lodI wins, they Iil'I-I IIiowdtill, If Htl hi e iii n111g of 1t4 In 10f14'1r. 1 I Nii 00lmnh'111)01m1wit Il gl'E'lit i.4jpiJi(li, Ii1W14'i 1itlIiii turd 11l11t. ill Ow (0'o11niw 10141. I111h ' i Iv t ou lt(l'jiE CliE' Hite 111111 of tli 1111411i111E4t fIit 1111f l 1- iE'1Hrl'r lii tp.-oi u von tiriI ey HiJHEtIli 11'. TA.VI:N N11,lI. I )id I li1t IPII)res'nf fit,. iwi foili igo44 yourl n'n11111 il11o r.it 1I Co'l' . Iff )lEti flt' 1 0 Ej1E11-ty? fu ei 14WE)I Al'. I'i N Iit,11 ii' 1,44 - now, Ion 13 101 ihl l 'l~l I (1le oi.llwI EHN Anstll tI' S 11 et.therjy ifl'i(E'it ii I' w r li mt w 1ori l wn Jees. 1'I iii 1ferj)E' Iill'41nt rli gioif W~l~li ('1114 It~ifI v ' 111~elt 'Vli1 ttll1MW i'i 111ito Iii' 011 ig fl(Et wiild it All. JY'I'EN. I donll't iths I grou. ttm f o. litlli OI P iPiii~mE 1 , l 1114 (Iii'g lllo i no ilOW. 10 I )l. liffeik int shiiw 1i1o l'l O i liof.it, i t l 11 f NreIC 1 toll i.goil 811Wo.l~yprolil Writers (hif thed scre 111gol 1Ahl'. TIAVE:NNI;T. ' ii l~l 11tt tlie o tlo? Al'. TiAVINNI11. Nowil~l (11 kio ilVi04 tl e le ft,110 11 11o All. LVI'rOt. No (111 kdo%. I o',not.: o o. Wra'.114 'l'AINU id, (1111f fle but etig had h i it pti'ndeii
Mr. Li'r,4N'ot. Wes, wis th(Jo. IOi Mu'. IOlNI. SIM Wk+h ose ' Uiow wefre (1.3'?asno MiveJeYrl1'ON. im it f~illoffw(ieri slilfle, ta Iti . meelting kin Nt he of Dcan Joito wifle AlM'. TAVEN ER. NWs lie YOU FIC'Oill Wr1i 101erhe fhel I io mrieting wasl l h Srw inCeSre eeci oaylatwoI or0 nei a )~iiS ALVYIAVONN. ?hd(1 ayO oll ith c4omitt bri(efldbu ht 
Mrl. 'VAV8,NNER. IllW186101e4OMOP?
Mr. ljy'tioN. I litonded itwofo meeting ~oe s. I wthin antwd aieefng ipnOlwom oftin eetins.Onwsclcoe.Ibivety wer. iAVn NFtoteie Wgar oft stiike wrthr? cneeneo Sui Un ionswere scouting at thaesi Itim. simeiwrtr
Mr. WellNI Whng "fraction meind of tim refern toa fration mtino the Communist Party. thatil ocaion toderttnd
Mr.747-roN-pt. 2- 41W (IOMItNINl A~VtVIVIlca IN lTOIN 1:,01 ANIIKIt,MAlV hl t'.lll.NNI1:li. , ill yolu tell fill%e it t't't who totak)11 ill thul friet (ott fileetiig t1111t. ou at teiild V hit'. 14-l'r41M.nc htiga I Ilw 11) t111 1118 (i-, 'Ill vIIniu'r, WhVloI I know flhint., iut irg ililitil'of seen witlets, ni lol i fi lre 1110plo :::iiol sloi: 411,11 ol (11tu1d 1 (llIVIIrty t. 11011111 uid Iher I ItNill( ow o1fll lhe 11eldtlkli g 11li1t. I Ver'y u'lea lkIy. ole(i front, I hilt it. WoldltI (1111r.~l (411l1 (f.r lit% to j)l 11dtwli l' Illall,%11s havi ng sjH''i ll- I1liv l~'i t fily givenl I hlnt oi' jne.' or1 tIleelI tig. l 110 tthita,%OlW 1111 e ~l l l t iI8If t t14 hutkI ht('eiilis4t 1 ~Ih (4)1)11 rtI )($list V'. Al. onti tract Ion nitii11g, Johnt Wt'x hey alprwouetl il, aIlId I r'u'nhl it flit' following lieetIng wias Ily last. Int'et-ing. hi-r ljtt',l::; oka I believe Olsw lwfill itll -ln- 1 o14wiit)ittl i 110410-106I Tlhe eotilitt ee will b'e ill rteeSs fill 10l 0111,1()tlt 10114. afteri 11. .1. (8hort, ricess wvas taken.) hir. AI'iF.'*. ''t.oiit will ho ill orid'. Mli'. T1AVVINNViI. IMP. C liffIiirial, it h111 jiSt 111(1't ee 11114 lt't t 4 1111 atfeltin intt t het Iletei Olt 1w3 (lki Wit'itt'ss of It P01180'N1i by tutu iiiiiietfAnn Morganl Iltdglt give rise to soniti iisit erstandrIig Jit to the Ann Morgant It'fi'reld to bty ItIle Witnhess. I'Tere is fill Annt Wrgan whot is it ttutthttii iii the Los Aiignlm es(hioolH. Are youi well etnouigh naciilt( with tho Anti Morgant whtom you 11111toted n lie(101180 f ourto.tiliolyto he itllt tCostate thiatt it is notht erseuonl that. t just. reforild tot M. jYItON. I linit itot itt'11 HVtetuiiit' i-it le 1i)1t'.4011 you jus5t utiettiont to tt.'4tif3' that it. is not, bit. I know tis~, tltint Aiti Hoth -oigallwas not. ai schoolteachler.
Mri. r1AVF.NNr~t. A11( titwei jils beeni it schtoolteacheri to your knowiedje KMr.LI,%rroN. I doubt that site has. Mir. TIAVENNERI. D~o you know whotlter the Persotn referred to, that is tile person referred to by you as Ant i ranl, Ann Roth Morgant, is' also known by the name of Anti Roth Morgami Richards? Mir. Ltvro. 'that I don't knowv. Mir. TiAvrNNIRR. Mir. Chairman, I think I should state for tile nvo~rd tht we know, front our investigation Work, that, those names nifer to thle siuni person, that is, that thle person mentioned by thle within is thle sameo person as Ann Roth Mtorgan Richar'ds who was stibpenaed ats a witness before this committee.
Mr. Scunr~na. And not. the schoolteacher.
Mr. TAvENNE.R. And is an entirely different person from the school teacher. I believe that clears that up.
Mr. Cr.%Rny. If it dos',Mr. Counsel, you would welcome her appearing here if she=wse to, so we may be certainV
Mr. TAlENNKR. Ohl, yes; if she would fle to appear here. site will be welcome. ('0M (N IMP ACT'IVI'PI I-H IN TiIM LOA1.0 ANOI1.I;M Alt iA 01~ IVII IIo IIIlNl 118, j1101844, fIIIIliI Iuiiti I Ior II I INe wI I'o re Wiii li401if1li1 Paurty, I if vl? cti withIifhi geolu fir %w.1i-l'Ithho 'iilitiuis At 1.. II vroN., welii, oweutli~i it rowiuc luaiiiwti g orI it. iiih hoino of to l 111 "t11w oVfr OoouP ofililli 111fi nu, r ng I iii ti'11lh'd, 1 4.1111 81111l 1111 #1111111-14i In ll(ed( If) Jlohni fowui 1,1 liii wvoui, f .0iit'Nl, Ilita Jiy (Iornefy, ])fill 1111(l1Iji Iit #11111i-14, 1111(l S11ut44 heyI ''agofi 11111 Nliirvi (lark. y ig iiitori'iitlli wiew~l~tt All% T1AVtN NIt, (I l You1 gil II114 iroi loted reluit i ng to I ho lu11t. 1whisouu va.iu moeltilf IMM All%0 Cla.( hrk ill Noiw York when hio All'. I TiifN. 0uiY 11111 1at WP0111I(( ot1.4 i Withi It grii11 ilhid 1111 'I'heui1fl. r(ol h'tvt e, All'. TIAV-N NiiH. Now, wvill youi tell iis, jili'nitE, tilly fisf her (-it-. 14vilig iolie ColininnnIIis ciuisiii iiis1 hill y01u 1111)' hilve regilrd i tug yoIiirles Party atOf114 fI uhf OX III- h'iI tioiii1 ORli("homn1sfI, Ni I'. I VI-111N. I WONH fiiii i 111(o~ 1 aN1 ffi~iiiii II V. I had1( uIi'giti'i al, ft i's rew iiwetiiigm i atiet fill Iagint, OX pel led firontu I liq partIy. 'I'li (4litiugePi I 1h11t I WONI gIMPerilly tO [i ItHla ill 111 piif ,n nId 11111t I WONH prl'(tif'IOi , IhtI co'iiiishti'l 11sail eilla'y of labor folid ,I people. I will let fihe "people", 1111ke their. ownl julgientill liht. 010 (11t1 when Chat
Mrl. T1AIIN NEII. ("ill youI give 11 (leItj)ptOXiIllIff3 to ine thut, t hat, o('fiurref in
Mr. Ii-voN. ThaIi. ofetirredoi it m4001112 late 19I15rtIhomniddheopf h145. 1 dotl.know,
Mrl. TJ'VENNPvit. At. he hiegiinning of yourl test iffloiiy you t-old usHIhiitt you ii-i 11 fit)lnger' illI 5fil f' ii ughui~ i-, LITi''fN. '1'iuit, N t'ighit. All'. TiAI'N NEiL. IV'lteii (lid youl teriuIIluiafen your, sereen-.writ iii eare4*r?
Mrl. TAIlON. At, the suniie tinme t hit. I IA'riliiiistefI with t. ie Colnmiuilist P~arty. I didn't torilinettit. that t-ine, boit I liafi no fuirthe(r careerr, MI'. TAVE.NNER. Why was that? Ai'-, ljy'ixm. I. fotlind t hat fromin linl fil it variety fil d chlargeqs were madie fll over town, incorreat ideiititicatioiis, idelitifihcltiolI Mott at'll111lia1ppihy tit. it moment. like this. For example, it writer named flai're Lyn(ifon wasli writing it picture "I Mfaried atCommunist." I am not Barre Ljyndonl and lie was writitig an antti-Communlilist )icture. It was charged that. Blart Lytton wrote it. My wife was called ald dsho was cursed utp and(down roundly by at former friend. She wats told(, "Dont't you believe thaft hie isn't writing it. We know hie is wvritn it," for example, find so 01). I funflat. from ainy interview that I s9eemedl to have thereafter I didn't got atjob. An interesting 0o18 to me was one wvhere a producer, whom I did not know had expressed keen interest in it story I had wriittenl. I was invite to the studio to see thsIrdcra lwn to tlte studio, RRO, again, and the producer wvas Adrian Scott. When hie saw who thle writer was lie apparently didn't like it, let uts put it that way. Hie delivered me a stern lectur on fascism and dismissed me curtly without discussion of thle story. I was to be hired by Abe Burrows to write specialty material for him. I met him ait his request at the Brown Derby on Vine Street. He said, "Gee, I have decided I don't need a specialty writer. I don't need a writer." And lie turned around and walked ou't on an invitation to lunch. 41201 COMNIlST ACTIVITIES IN THP, LOS ANOBLES AREIA This kind of incidents kept oevirring. Wherever I turned I was astounded that while the party was notJarge, they had as inany areas of Influence as the had in Hollywood. Made several attempts to have a hearing on he matter. I didn't want to get back in the Coinmtuust Party. I wanted no part of It. I had learned everything I had to learn about Itand everything it represented, but I wanted a hearing because I wanted to be confronted with any evidence that might exist, and I wanted to mio what they had to say. I was never afforded a hearing. I was never afforded any opportunity. I was told, "We don't have to give you a hearing. We don't have to listen to you. We know what you are." I asked who told then those things, and they said, "That is our business," and so forth. The feeling there was simply that I was guilty because I was seen with an Army officer who was known to be an Intelligence officer. The Army officer was my brother. He wits a captain in the field artillery.
Mr. thAoKsON. So that was guilt by association. 
Mr. L mN. Yes, sir; guilt by association.
Mr. JACKsoN. Isn't that a very relrehensible thing in the Communist Party parlance I
Mr. LrroN. I think"gtuilt by association" isgenerally rerelensible and I think the Communists have very poor grace in ever accusing anyone else of it.
Mr. fAc.KsoiN. Except for the fact that a bank cashier who travels around with thugs and holdup men. He doesn't hold his job very long, does heV
Mr. LrrroN. I don't know what you mean.
Mr. JACKSON. That would be guilt by association. 
Mr. LrrroN. I see what you mean; yes, that is right.
Mr. JACKSON. But the Communists do practice guilt by association.
Mr. LyrtoN. Most assuredly they do. There is no question about that.
Mr. CL.,wy. Of course, they never assassinate anybody's character. 
Mr. Lrrro. They did their darndest to assassinate mine. Well, let us put it this way: I was no longer welcome in any of the circles I previously knew. People would not talk to me about it. The very nice people to whom [-am indebted for my appearance here today, Pauline and Leo Townsend, I went to, because I had seen them at a meeting, and I asked them what it was about, and at that time they weren't out of the decompression chamber and they.appeared nervous and ill at ease about the matter, and said that I had- better talk to somebody else. They were the only people, incidentally, who would even speak to me about it Others just simply turned their backs.
Mr. Dou. You mean that only Communists who would talk to youI
Mr. Lrrror. No, sir; I wouldn't sy-I will put it a little strong than "only Communists." I would may that tfe Reds have a lot of fellow travelers, as you know, and you get to know pretty well who the fellow travelers are or you would my, "Well, mabe ti s j1uo is a Communist. I don't know whlmt be is a Communist rar member but I know he is a Cummunkt or i fellow traveler." The allow travelers, in turn. have influence at concentric circles, influence upon liberals, we will may, and this gwes on. Now, they t COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TIE LOS ANOELES AItRA 453 didn't care what they said and they said many things that had no hasis in fact whatsoever.
Mr. CLARDY. What you are trying to say is that they are the most intolerant people on earth.
Mr. LrroN. Tolerance is not even considered to be a virtue in the Communist Party, according to its teachings. 
Mr.CLAIIDY. You are agreeing with me, then, I take it?
Mr. LyrroN. Most assuredly.
Mr. TAVrNNF.R Well, as a result of your experience in the Com- munist Party, you left the field of screen writing; is that what I understandI
Mr. Lnrov. Well, let us say that it was certainly a large contributing factor. I was unable to secure another job in town. I had the interesting experience, incidentally, of being told by a couple of producers tlt I was a known Communist. I said, "1low did you learn that I" And he said, "Well, your name was dropped by a couple of people I know to be Communists." This was in that period. In other words, if it was necessary to state that I was a Communist not to get a job, they would do it that way.
Mr. DoYl,. May I ask this question Y
Mr. VEWE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DoYi, I hope you will see the pertinence of my question, sir. 1p until the time of .your trouble with the Communist Party leadership, as a sc een writer you had been financially successful?
Mr. LJrroN. I certainly had.
Mr. ID)oYL. Thank you.
Mr. TAvFNqNER. You mentioned the name of Mr. Stanley Praeger. Will you spell that for me?
Mr. LrrorN. P-r-a-e-g-e-r0 I believe.
Mr. TAvzNNzr. What is his occupation-what was it at that time?
Mr. L0row. Oh, he was a road show Lou Costello. That is what you call a poor man's comic. lie used to appear at all social affairs ana do skets and skitches-"skets and skitches," that is interesting. And he was, I think, for a time employed at Twentieth Century-Fox a a comedian.
Mr. TAvZNNrYJ. Since the time of your withdrawal from the Coinmunist Party or your expulsion, have you engaged in any Conuntuist Party activities, to your knowledge I
Mr. Lrrrmo. No, sir. In the decompression period, which we will speak of again, I supported Henry Wallace in 1948 in his candidacy for the Piesidency of the United States, before the campaign and during part of it, fut before the campaign was over however, I didn't like the associations that it required and I ceased that support. I voted for him, however.
Mr. TAvzWUL I believe, Mr. Chairman, that is all I desire to ask.
Mr. Vaw& Mr. Jackson.
Mr.JACISOX. Your contention, as I unlermtand it, Mr. Lytton, is that as a result of you bretk with tho party that you wveri m turn, reviled and blackliied by these with whom you hd ptWriosy be aiwiociated ! 