Mr. SCHOENFELD. I am not.
Mr. WooD. Do you desire counsel?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. No, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, at the outset I would like to explain that when Mr. Stanley Roberts testified in open session before the committee regarding his open participation in Communist Party activities in Hollywood as a screen writer, he identified Mr. Schoenfeld as a person who collaborated with him in regard to his joining the Communist Party. On the following day, an attorney from New York called me and stated that Mr. Schoenfeld had been to see him, and that Mr. Schoenfeld desired to appear before the committee in response to the general 4249 4250 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY invitation which you have from time to time issued, namely, that whenever a person or an organization has been mentioned in the course of the testimony before the committee, he or it should have the opportunity to appear and give such explanation or denial as he or it desires to make. In response to that telephone communication, I arranged for Mr. Schoenfeld to interview a member of the staff; which was done, and finally, as a result, Mr. Schoenfeld, at his request, appears here today. Before giving him an opportunity to make the statement that he desires to make, I would like to ask him a few preliminary questions.
Mr. Schoenfeld, when and where were you born?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. In New York City, August 17, 1907.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Screen writer. What is your educational background for the profession of which you are a member ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Harvard University, from which I graduated in 1928, and then post graduate course in the Yale School of Drama 
Mr. TAVENNER. at Yale, from which I graduated in 1930.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you tell the committee, please, what your experience in your profession has been ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, upon graduation from the Yale School of Drama, I wrote plays, one of which was introduced on Broadway, then another which was produced on Broadway.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are those plays?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. The first play was called Shooting Star, in 1933 or 1934, and the other one was called Hitch Your Wagon, which was produced in 1936. In 1936, I left playwriting and came to Washington, where I worked for 7 years in Government service. From 1936 to 1938, I was a radio writer for the Office of Education, and then in 1938 I became chief script writer for the Radio Section of the Department of the Interior. In 1940, I was appointed Chief of the Radio Section of the Office for Emergency Management. In 1942, I was editor of the Radio Bureau of OWI. It was in 1943 that I became a screen writer in Hollywood, and have been a screen writer since, writing for motion pictures. Those are Phantom Lady, Dark Corner, Caged, C-a-g-e-d, and Macao, M-a-c-a-o. That is the extent of my career. (Representative Harold H. Velde left the hearing room at this point.) 
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time you worked for the Government between 1936, I believe, and 1943, were you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I was not, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you become a member of the Communist Party, if you did?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I became a member of the Communist Political Association, as it was then known, in April or May of 1945, in Hollywood. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4251 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now you are at liberty to make any statement that you desire to the committee regarding your alleged participation in the Communist Party or the Communist Political Association.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, sir, until 1944, the words '"Communist" and "communism" had absolutely no meaning to me, save that I knew them as any layman, but was completely disinterested, and I had always, in Washington, been connected with the New Deal and with the liberal policies of President Roosevelt, and upon his death Mr. Stanley Roberts and I, wishing some participation in what we con- sidered the liberal cause, accepted what was told to us about the Communist Political Association and joined, after the death of Mr. Roosevelt. I joined believing what I had been told, what I had been told by
Mr. Albert Maltz, John Howard Lawson, Dalton Trumbo, Henry Myers. These four gentlemen had, previous to April 1945, at various times talked to me about the Communist Political Association. They knew me to be a follower of Mr. Roosevelt's policies, and they kept explaining to me how the CPA had backed Mr. Roosevelt in the last election. They pointed out to me that the association had no candidate of its own, since it was not a political party. They emphasized that the association believed in gradual social change and was working and would continue to work within the framework of the existing Democratic Party.
Mr. Roberts and I kept discussing the pros and cons of joining, and it was only with the shock of President Roosevelt's death in April 1945 that he and I agreed that the CPA was a group where we could best function as liberals. I got in touch with Mr. Maltz, who arranged for me to attend a meeting, and Mr. Roberts and I joined at approximately the same time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you there. How long had you known Mr. Maltz ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, Mr. Maltz, I had known personally since the Yale Drama School, where he had been a fellow student, but I had not seen him until the fall of 1944. I had not seen him at all. And because we were both screen writers, I met him at a meeting, and subsequently was invited to his house, where he then began to talk about the Communist Political Association.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, in the conversations that you had with Mr. Albert Maltz, Mr. Dalton Trumbo, Mr. John Howard Lawson, and
Mr. Henry Myers, were those discussions of a character which were designed to induce you to become a member of the party ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Oh, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did they solicit your membership, in the course of the conversation ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, it took, you see, from the early fall of 1944 until April 1945 for me to be convinced. They emphasized the way in which-how the association had a program of gradual political change. And since in Washington I had been a stanch follower of the liberal doctrines of the administration, and here I was in Hollywood with no activity, I finally believed them. 4252 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to the time of your becoming a member of the party, or the Communist Political Association, had you united with organizations which you later found out were Communist-front organizations'?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes, sir. Two organizations. When I arrived in Washington, I became a member of the Screen Writers' Guild automatically, and almost the entire membership of the guild at that time, in the war years, almost the entire membership, with other guilds and unions, belonged to what was called the Hollywood Mobilization. This was the joining of these unions and guilds to work for the war effort. I joined, and I believe I wrote probably a half dozen Red Cross. radio messages and a few skits for the USO. That was my participation there.
Mr. TAVEAXER. In referring to the Hollywood Mobilization, did you mean the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes; the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, sir. And at that time thousands of writers, directors, and technicians belonged. The Writers' Mobilization was part of the larger Hollywood Mobilization, I believe. And with hindsight it now becomes clear, when you read the names of the leaders of the guild at that time and the leaders of the mobilization, Lawson, Maltz, that it was a front group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the League of American Writers ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes, sir; I was a member of the League of Amer- ican Writers for approximately 6 months. I believe it was the fall of 1938, or perhaps the beginning of 1939. Somewhere in 1939, when I was still here in Washington, I sent a letter of resignation and resigned from the League of American Writers because I was incensed by the attack of the U. S. S. R. on Finland. At that time, the League of American Writers sent me some kind of document standing by the position that it was not an invasion, and I sent such a letter of resignation to the league in, I think, 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who was the national president at that time ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I do not. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the name of any official of the League of American Writers to whom you addressed your letter of resignation?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. No, sir. I am positive that all I did was send the letter to the League of American Writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive an acknowledgment of your resig- nation ? 
Mr. SCHOENFELD. NO; I do not remember having received one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Writers' Congress of 1943?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I was, sir. That was the second front organization, or I believe it to have been a front organization. It wasn't an organization that you joined. It was merely, if I remember, a week of seminars on the University of Southern California, at which technicians in all media of communication gave lectures. And I was asked-I cannot remember by whom, but I was asked-if I would one afternoon give a lecture with Norman Corwin and Arch Oboler COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4253 on documentary radio. I did, and that was my one and only participation in the Congress. Again, with hindsight, I am positive that the Writers' Congress was a Communist front, and that my name and my reputation were being used with those of other liberals as come-ons. And, as I say, it was just one afternoon that I spoke there.
Mr. TAVENIER. And that was before you became a member of the Communist Political Association ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. It was, sir; by a year and a half.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether this Congress was conducted by the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I believe it was. I wouldn't swear to it, but I believe it was. At least, remembering back there, I believe that there was some linkage there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any recollection at all of how your participation in the program was solicited and obtained?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. If I remember, Mr. Oboler, Mr. Corwin, and myself, and others, being notified of the hour and the afternoon that we were to speak-and I don't know who it was. I am sure that whoever it was, if I knew the person, I would remember. It might easily have been someone from the mobilization, since it was the same period, I believe. It was 1943, if I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, what other front organizations did you join ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. The League of American Writers. Those three. And I am not at all certain that I ever joined the Hollywood IndependentMr. BEALE. -Citizens' Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Thank you, sir. I attended two meetings in 1948, and I remember giving a check for $10 at the Hotel Roosevelt, and that was my entire extent of activity in HICCASP, which I am certain, because of the roster of names which since have come out as members of the Communist Party, must have been a Communist front.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever affiliate with the Hollywood AntiNazi League?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I did not, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any other organizations which you have reason to believe were Communist-front organizations, which you joined prior to your membership in the Communist Political Association ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. One, sir, which I remember. I was asked for the People's-can't remember the name-School.
Mr. BEALE. People's Educational Center?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. That is right-to give in the same year a course in radio, war radio, documentary radio, which once a week I did for a half dozen times, and that was the last I ever had anything to do with it. That was not an organization, .but, looking back again over the same names, the constant repetition of names, Lawson, Maltz, Dalton TrumboThat was some girl in the guild who asked me to teach there. And when I had arrived in Hollywood, I knew no one, and I was alone, and I wanted to help as I had helped in Washington with the war effort. 21546-52-pt. 9-2 4254 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY In all this speaking at the Writers' Congress and the Hollywood Mobilization and lectures on radio, there seemed to me to be the ways by which I could help the war effort. But at that time I had no thought of or identification with or really understanding of the Communist Political Association.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I interrupted you. You were telling the committee of your joining the Communist Political Association in 1945.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish you would tell the committee just what your experience was in the Communist Party, where you met, the names of persons who met with you.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, at the meetings which I subsequently attended, I met the following members. I have them written down here, if I may read them: Michael Uris, U-r-i-s, Dorothy Tree, T-r-e-e, Hugo Butler, Frank Tuttle, Tanya Tuttle, Edward Huebsch, H-u-e-b-s-c-h, Bernard Vorhaus
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that name ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Vorhaus, Vo-r-h-a-u-s, Stanley Roberts, Herbert Biberman, Michael Wilson, Paul Trivers, Jane Trivers, Meta Reis, M-e-t-a R-e-i-s, Hetty Vorhaus.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the first name ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. H-e-t-t-y, I believe. Jack Berry, Gale Sondergaard, Richard Collins. Between the time I joined, in April or May 1945, and October 1945, I attended no more than a dozen meetings. I took no political assignments. At those meetings there were discussions mostly about the role of the cultural worker, and I would sit and listen, and was a passive member, inasmuch as I was given no political assignments of any kind. I attended no fraction meetings. I paid only the basic dues. And I refused even to be assessed according to salary. Then, in October 1945, I left for New York City, and I remained there a year.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, just at that point: Where was your meeting place ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. The first meeting that I ever attended, in the spring of 1945, was at the home of Michael Uris in Hollywood, and geographically, the meetings were held in homes adjacent to or around that district, where Mr. Uris lived, and those homes belonged to Edward Huebsch, Frank Tuttle, Herbert Biberman, Jack Berry, Paul Trivers, and Hugo Butler.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you meet in the homes of each of those persons whose names you have just mentioned ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I did, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you mean by that statement also to say that each of those persons were members of your group or unit of the Communist Party?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I do, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And these meetings to which you referred: Were they Communist Party meetings? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4255 
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, they never mentioned, until 1947, I think- they always spoke of the association, but they were definitely Communist Party meetings, each and every one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU state that at those meetings they discussed the role of the cultural worker. Will you define that a little more ? In what direction was the role of the cultural worker being aimed ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, Mr. Roberts and I used to fight constantly on this, because it was obvious after the first half dozen meetings that we attended that the role of the cultural worker was to obey whatever the party told you to do as a writer. You were supposed to have no creative thoughts of your own. You were supposed to use your talent for, let us say, a strike. If there was a strike, you were told to write something pro or con, whatever the party position was at that time. In other words, the individuality of the creative writer was to be stamped on, and your own individual position was never taken into account. And this was always discussed in rather abstract terms, too, because they gave you pamphlets to read. And not being very talented in political science or in economics, I couldn't make them out, and from the very begin- ning I would be rebuked for my inability to read or comprehend the material that they gave me to read. I was in a group which never concretely told me to write anything, but would discuss the role of the cultural worker over and over again until, frankly, I didn't know what the devil they were driving at, because they would never pin it down except philosophically. It was intellectualized constantly. I had joined thinking that there would be concrete liberal activities which, as a creative writer I could help, even as I had in war work. I thought there would be work for me to do. And they did nothing except sit and discuss pamphlets on the role of the cultural worker constantly, these first 12 meetings, before I went to New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you consider that the way in which the role of the cultural worker was discussed and taught was an effort to influence you in your thinking?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I certainly did. This is a gradual disillusionment, of course, and a gradual technique of superimposing a whole philosophy and a whole ideology on the individual member, so that whatever he thinks gradually works in a vacuum and no longer obtains, so that he has no longer any ideas of his own. And this I kept sensing, and hoping that it was not so. Because, having made this step, idealistically, and believing that the association was following Roosevelt's policies, and since they were very smart and used many of the liberal phrases, and spoke of Mr. Roosevelt for quite a while, I kept giving them that second chance.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if the Communist Party, through its efforts in these meetings, could be successful in influencing the screen writers in their thinking, that would be the best way to influence the context of films, would it not ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I don't think it could be done, sir, for two reasons. One, the vast majority of screen writers are highly individual, and most of the ones I know, including myself, have always wanted to think for themselves And the second reason is that the way the • [ . 4256 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY motion-picture industry is organized, there would be too many factors which would not allow this material to be infiltrated into a movie. I myself, in these groups, never heard discussed, for instance, the way in which the party could take over the ideology of the industry. This I never did hear.
Mr. TAVENNER. But if they were successful in influencing the thinking of some of the individuals, that naturally would affect their writings.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. That is true, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And although the Communist Party could not, be- cause of the mechanical difficulties and because of the fact that many of you were independent in your thinking, succeed in actually producing a Communist film, yet if they influenced the writer's thinking they could influence the content of his work. It would be bound to influence the content of his work, would it not ?
Mr. SCHOENFEID That is true, sir. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, did you observe anything of the same character in the work of the League of American Writers ? no, s,ir. Because I never attended any
Mr. SCHOENFELD. We meetings. It was while I was in Washington. I was merely a paidup member; that is all; and never attended any meetings or knew anyone here who at all belonged. I had no activity whatsoever in that league.
Mr. TAVENNER. You indicated a resentment toward the effort of the Communist Party to influence the way in which you would carry out the work of your own profession.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have in mind any particular instances in which either you or other members of your profession were influenced or attempted to be influenced in any particular way?
Mr. SCHOENFEJl). NO, sir, I can't remember any specific illustration of it; merely, as you said, sir, the hope that from these discussions their philosophy would so be superimposed on yours that automatically, I presume, as you wrote you would orient yourself in this way.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were telling the committee that you went to New York.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes, sir; in October 1945 I left for New York City and I remained there a year. I had not asked for a transfer. I paid no dues while I was in INew York. I had no contract whatsoever with the association, personally or by mail. I saw no association members while I was in New York. I was working on a play during that time, and I had no political activity of any kind. I returned to Hollywood in October 1946, and between October 1946 and the spring of 1947, I attended, oh, at most I should say five meetings. I had no political activity within the group, and continued to just remain a passive member. I do remember that these meetings pertained to the breaking off, the change, from the association into the party again, the DuclosBrowder conflict. And this was the beginning of the straw that broke the camel's back as far as I was concerned, because I, from the very beginning, championed Browder's attempts at collective security, the way he had identified with what I thought was a philosophy of gradual social change, the united front, and I remember Mr. Biberman and
Mr. Butler attacking Browder as the party chief. And I became con- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4257 fused about it. I argued the point and again was rebuked. I talked with Mr. Roberts constantly about this new step; because we had felt that Browder had tried to continue Roosevelt's liberalism. And since this had been the reason, the continuance of liberal ideals, that we had joined in the first place, we were pretty upset by now. It was either the second or third meeting when once more I was given pamphlets to read. I remember one, I believe, was by Duclos. I know there was one by Foster and one by Stalin. And again, I went home and tried to read them, and came back, and they asked questions, as one would do to a pupil in school, and must have considered me an idiot, because they rebuked me for my inability to have comprehended them. They were statistical in nature, and dealt with political science. And they tried to make me once more agree that Browder, in some way, had committed some kind of a sin, and I fought them on that. And, oh, weeks and weeks went by before I attended the last meeting. It was the spring of 1947. And by that time I was pretty disillusioned and disgusted with what had occurred. And in May, I left Hollywood again, to travel through the Pacific Northwest, which I did, and returned in the last part of September or the beginning of October of 1947. I was pretty convinced by this time that there was nothing any longer that I could identify with, nothing that I believed that they were telling me. And I think it was Mr. Huebsch who called me up, hearing I was back in town, and I attended one meeting. This was my last meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you at that point. You stated that you refused to pay assessments. Will you tell us more about that? What effort was made to have you pay assessments, and what assessments?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, I don't remember the percentages. I do remember, however, that where I believe the basic dues were $2, they would want a portion of my salary.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember what portion?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. No, sir, I do not. No, sir, I don't know the percentage. Because I was adamant about it, and merely paid the basic dues, because I was in and out of town and so seldom in studios by this time working.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who attempted to collect assessments from you
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, I remember, Mr. Huebsch, and I remember Tanya Tuttle and Michael Uris. I think those three kept the moneybags.
Mr. TAVENNER. To whom did you pay your dues, your $2 dues.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. have been. The treasurer. I am not sure who these three must 
Mr. TAVENNER. In the discussions that took place, who were the leaders? 
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Herbert Biberman, certainly, I would call the discussion leader. After that, I suppose Paul Trivers would be the next most vocal member of the group.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that literature was given you to read at the time that the role of the cultural worker was being discussed.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes, sir. 4258 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you remember what type of literature it was, or the names of the pamphlets that were given you ?
Mr. SCIIOENFELD. I don't know who wrote it, but I remember a pamphlet just called the Role of the Cultural Worker. That I remember. And I remember a pamphlet by Gorki on writing, one by Browder, and, yes, one by-am I correct-Magil.
Mr. BEALE. A. B. Magil.
Mr. SCIIOENFELD. That is right, sir. And is that the same as V. J. Jerome?
Mr. BEALE. NO.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Because there was one by that gentleman, too. I remember those.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any representatives of the Communist Party from higher levels meeting with your group ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. NO, sir, I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how your particular group or cell of the party received Communist Party instructions ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, I heard of fraction meetings, but never attended any. Lawson's name was constantly being mentioned. It was he who I always assumed was the spearhead. Because whenever any point of discussion between Biberman and Trivers or Michael Wilson came up, it would be, "Let's see Jack." So I presume that Mr. Lawson at that time must have been the spearhead.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now if you will return to your narrative statement, you stated that you returned in 1947.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. That is correct, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. From the Pacific area.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. That is right. And I attended, as I say, one meeting, and one last meeting. And I remember being surprised, because, having been away all this time again, instead of the large group there were only five or six members present. I believe, I know, that Michael Wilson was there, Jack Berry, Edward Huebsch, Dick Collins-Richard Collins-and I am not sure, but I think so was Michael Uris. To the best of my recollection it was held at the Jack Berry home in Hollywood. I was rebuked again for having gone away and written on things that I wanted to write on, not having stayed in Hollywood, and I paid little attention to that before the meeting began. And there was a blast at the United Nations. I remember that. And the Marshall plan. And throughout the meeting, I sat silently and disgusted, until the meeting was over, and then Edward Huebsch came over to me and asked me why I had been away, and I told him, and then I was rebuked because I had been delinquent in dues while I was gone, and I told them I wasn't paying any, and I also told them that I was planning to move to the beach to write a novel, and that I was not going to attend any more meetings; that I felt that the time had come when what they believed in and what I believed in were mutually exclusive by now, and it was over, as far as I was concerned. I did move to the beach in May in 1948, and in those months in between I would get phone calls by unfamiliar voices, contact voices, I would suppose you would call them, to come to meetings, and "What COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4259 was the matter?" And I would say I had told Mr. Huebsch I did not intend coming to any more. And I didn't do so. I moved to the beach to write my novel, and some time in the spring, not too long after I had moved to the beach, someone whose name I do not recall, but I think is the son-in-law of a writer called Sonya Levine-I don't know his name, and I may even be wrong, but I think that is who it was-visited me at the beach and asked me why I hadn't attended meetings. Once more I repeated that I had no intention of doing so. He asked me for back dues. I refused. I remember he asked me for a check for the People's World. I refused that, and I told him I was no longer in the party, and that my novel was going to take up all my time, that I was completely against what the party now stood for. And he argued, and he got nowhere, and he left, and that was my last contact with any member of the association or party, in the spring of 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did this cell or group have a name ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. If it had, sir, I never heard it. I don't believe it did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that you were reprimanded for writing things that you wanted to write about.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes. For instance, if I wanted to write of anything that had no what they loved to call "social content." And a writer would like to write about, oh, almost anything, whether it is a story about marriage or a story about a dog or anything else. But it was always: "You are wasting your time. You should be writing as a cultural worker. You should be writing"'-what they would suggest you write. And they would criticize very often at meetings those well-known writers, for instance, who at one time had written of social change and now were doing so no longer, you see. And any creative artist worth his salt can't put up with this kind of superimposition very long.
Mr. TAVENNER. What reply did you receive, or what reaction did you receive, when you advised Ed Huehsch that you would discon- tinue your membership in the Communist Party?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, he spent about 10 to 15 minutes after that last meeting was over trying to give me every intellectual reason why I shouldn't, and said that he would meet with me. I told him it wouldn't do any good, and he never did. All I got were the telephone calls. And then this chap who came down to the beach tried to argue; never on an emotional level, always on a kind of-I don't know why, a high intellectual and philosophical line.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe your name appeared in the amicus curiae of the brief.
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes; it did, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In the Dalton Trumbo case. Will you tell us the circumstances under which your name was used ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Well, I went to a guild meeting, and I learned that Judge Arnold had been hired to represent the guild itself as a friend of the court. And since the guild itself appeared as amicus curiae, I saw no reason for not signing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated with the Committee for the First Amendment? 4260 COlMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes, sir. One night, I think in 1947, I joined some writers and helped prepare a coast-to-coast broadcast.
Mr. TAVENNER. At whose solicitation did you join in that effort?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. I think-I am not sure, but I think it was at the solicitation of Millard Lampell.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you take part in the work of the Stockholm peace petition drive?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. No, sir; I did not, nor did I sign it.
Mr. TAVENINER. Were you a member of the Waldorf Conference? 1
Mr. SCHOENFELD. NO, sir; I had nothing to do with it at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there anything else that you wish to advise the committee or that you can advise the committee ?
Mr. SCHOENFELD. Yes. Since 1948, I have actively done nothing except use my time and energy for creative writing, and I have repudiated the party, because I want to remain an individual in the meaning that that word has attained in a democracy. And I would recommend that the Communist Party be outlawed and also that in order to keep liberals and people of good will from having my experience, a greater and greater vigilance be made in finding out what Communist-front organizations still exist and publicizing such Communist-front organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. I would like to say, sir, that I personally, and I am sure the other members of the committee who are not present here now, join in these sentiments: We are very grateful to you for taking ad- vantage of our invitation to come here and talk to us out of your heart as you have about your experiences in this organization. I have been very much interested in your reaction and particularly in your present views, which, in the main, coincide with the recent practices of this committee. For the very valuable information you have given us, we are also grateful, as are the American people. Because, after all, that is what we are trying to do here, aid the American people and the American Government and our way of life to maintain themselves and not yield to subversive outside influences that seek to destroy us. We appreciate very much your expression, and if there are no further questions from counselMr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, there are one or two questions I would like to ask in executive session.
Mr. WOOD. We will ask you to remain for a few minutes in execu- tive session after we adjourn here, then. (Whereupon, at 11:40 a. m., Tuesday, August 19, 1952, the committee proceeded in executive session.) 1Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace, arranged by the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions, and held at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York City, March 25-27, 1949. COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF THE HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 9 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1952 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. PUBLIC HEARING A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to notice, at 1: 30 p. m. in room 518, Federal Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, James B. Frazier, Jr., and Donald L. Jackson. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler and Charles E. McKillips, investigators; and John W. Carrington, clerk.
Mr. WooD. Let us have order, please. 
Mr. Reporter, please let the record show that acting under the authority of the resolution establishing the House Committee on UnAmerican Activities of the Seventy-ninth Congress of the United States, I have set up a subcommittee for the purpose of conducting hearings beginning in Los Angeles today and composed of the following members: Representatives Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, James B. Frazier, Jr., Harold H. Velde, and Donald L. Jackson, and myself, John S. Wood, as the chairman, all of whom are present with the exception of Representative Velde, who is expected to arrive later in the day. In this connection, I desire personally to express my very deep appreciation to these members of this committee who have left their respective districts in this election year where the general election is so near at hand, to come here and aid in the discharge of this very important task and responsibility the Congress of the United States has placed upon us. I feel that I bespeak the sentiments of the law-abiding American citizens of this community. During the course of the hearings conducted by a subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities of the House of Representatives a little more than a year ago in this room, Mr. Harold Ashe, who has been downtown section organizer of the Communist Party in Los Angeles and a State chairman of the State Central Committee of the Communist Party testified that he convinced the Communist Party 21546--52-pt. 9-3 4261 4262 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY that a professional unit of the party should be organized in Los Angeles. Mr. Ashe, according to his testimony, organized the Communist Party unit, known as "The One Hundred," from which another Communist Party unit designated "The One Hundred Fifty" was formed. The members of various professions were recruited into these professional tuits of the Communist Party on the basis that their identity would not be exposed. One of the purposes of this hearing is to ascertain whether this organizational work begun by Mr. Ashe has developed into an organized effort on the part of the Communist Party to establish Communist Party cells within various professions in the Los Angeles area, the extent and nature of such alleged Communist Party penetration into the various professions, and the purpose and objectives of the Communist Party in such alleged activities. Testimony will also be introduced at this hearing relating to the motion-picture and radio-entertainment field. Two public statements have come to the attention of the committee which it is felt are de- serving of public mention at this time, and incorporated into the record of this proceeding. I will read from a public release as follows: Following is an official statement by the Hollywood American Federation of Labor Film Council: "The Hollywood AFL Film Council, composed of American Federation of Labor unions and guilds representing more than 27,000 workers in the Hollywood motion-picture studios, condemns in the strongest possible terms certain widely circulated statements by the so-called Citizens' Committee To Preserve American Freedoms and the so-called Southern California Council To Abolish the UnAmerican Committee. "These two groups are attempting to fool the public into thinking that A. F. of L. unions, and specifically A. F. of L. unions in the motion-picture industry, are supporting their attacks on the House Un-American Activities Committee. The unions are doing no such thing. These A. F. of L. unions are strongly antiCommunist. "The same interests which try to use the name of the A. F. of L. are planning a picket line on Tuesday, September 30, to protest the hearings which will be conducted at the Federal Building in Los Angeles by the House Un-American Activities Committee. The hearings seek to help our Nation fight Russian imperialistic communism in all its aspects. "No A. F. of L. union in the motion-picture industry will support nor be represented in the picket line. None of our unions and guilds will have anything to do with any picket line or any other line which seeks to undermine our America in the interest of Stalinist Russia." I read also a statement made by the Motion Picture Industry Council. The heading of it is "Once and for All." Once and for all, let it be made clear that the guild, union, and management groups of Hollywood, represented in the Motion Picture Industry Council, repudiate any attacks upon the House Committee on Un-American Activities made by the alleged Citizens' Committee To Preserve American Freedoms or any other organizations seeking to give the impression, directly or indirectly, that-by opposing those who would expose Communists wherever they may be-they speak in behalf of the motion-picture industry. This so-called Citizens' Committee has implied, in a trade-paper advertisement, that it seeks Hollywood support in its attacksupon the House Committee on Un-American Activities. We denounce the actions of this Citizens' Committee. We condemn its tactics. We repudiate its view, as we have repudiated similar views in the past by the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council. Representing virtually all of the major guild, union and management groups of Hollywood, the MPIC, through them, speaks for the overwhelming body of local American citizens who compose the motion-picture industry. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 4263 On March 21, 1951, the full membership of the MPIO gave its unanimous approval to a statement which declared: "The MPIC offers its strength and support to any legally constituted body that has as its object the exposure and destruction of the International Communist Party conspiracy. "The MPIC hopes that all members of this industry who have been subpenaed will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. It deplores those who stand on constitutional privileges to hide that truth, or those who refuse to recognize the authority of Congress. "To those men and women of this industry who are former members of the Communist Party and who openly admit such membership and conclusively prove that they have repudiated utterly and forever that relationship, the MPIC offers its commendation and encouragement. * * * "On September 17, 1951, the MPIC reiterated that statement, declaring that the industry 'has no sympathy' for those who stand on the first and fifth amendments and again commending those who give the House Committee on Un-American Activities their sincere cooperation in its task of opposing communism. "Those were the views of the MPIC on March 21, 1951, and on September 17, 1951. "Those views have not changed one iota. "As in the past, we support the House committee, hopeful that through and as a result of its hearings, ways and means will be provided which will enable the Nation fairly, legally, and effectively to deal with the problem of Communist or subversive elements." Signed: The Motion Picture Industry Council for: Association of Motion Picture Producers, Hollywood A. F. L. Film Council, Independent Motion Picture Producers Association, Independent Office Workers, Screen Actors' Guild, Screen Producers' Guild, Screen Story Analysts' Guild, Screen Writers' Guild, Society of Independent Motion Picture Producers, Society of Motion Picture Art Directors, Unit Production Managers' Guild. I would like also at this time before beginning the hearings to make this announcement to the public. We are here at the direction of the Congress of the United States trying to discharge the duty and obligation that has been placed upon us by the Congress. No one who is present here or who will be present in this room during these hearings, except the witnesses who are subpenaed, are required to be here. You are here by the permission of the committee and not by compulsion of the committee. This committee will not countenance any attempt to make a demonstration, either favorable or unfavorable, toward the committee's undertaking or to what any person called as a witness may have to say. I do not say this in any spirit of threat, but if such conduct should occur, I am going to promptly ask the United States marshal to eject those who start or participate in any demonstration in this hearing room, and if necessary, clear the entire room.
Mr. Counsel, who will you call ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Roy Huggins.
Mr. WooD. Will Mr. Huggins come around, please, sir? Will you have the chair right up here, please, Mr. Huggins. Will you hold your right hand up ? Do you solemnly swear the evidence you shall give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. HUGGINS. I do. 
Mr. WOOD. Have a seat, sir. I shall ask the photographers to please refrain from taking pictures while the witness is being sworn. Do 4264 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY you have any objection to the photographers taking your picture at this time? 
Mr. HIUOINS. No, I don't.
Mr. WOOD. Very well, gentlemen. You will proceed and then let us get along with the testimony. TESTIMONY OF ROY HUGGINS 