Mr. SOHULBERG. My name is Budd Wilson Schulberg.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I am. 581 582 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. RH rrs. Mr. Gerard D. Reilly and Mr. Charles Edward Rhetts. of the firm of Reilly, Rhetts & Ruckelshaus.
Mr. WOOD. Local address, please?
Mr. RHETrr. Tower Building, Washington, D. C., sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. .Schulberg?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was born March 27, 1914, in the city of New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you live ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I now live in New Hope, Pa.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I am a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee briefly your educational training?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I went through the public-school system of the city of Los Angeles, graduated from Los Angeles High School, went to. Deerfield Academy, and to Dartmouth College.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you at Dartmouth College?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was graduated in June of 1936.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you take additional educational training after- that, or not? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir, I didn't. I received no other degrees except my B. A.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Schulberg, have you ever served in the Armed Forces of the United States?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. What branch of the military service ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Naval Reserve. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you become active in the United'StatesNavy?
Mr. SCHULBERG. March 10, 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you enlist?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I enlisted.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an officer?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I became a lieutenant in the Navy;
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you serve in the United States Navy ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Until March 17, 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any foreign service ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I did. I received one battle star in the. European theater of operations. I received commendation from the War Department for directing a security Nazi film to be used as evidence in the Nuremberg trial of major war criminals. I also received a commendation from Secretary Forrestal.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you discharged from the United States: Navy?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was released to inactive status on March 17, 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU still retain your commission in the United" States Naval Reserve?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you enter upon your profession ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. It is a difficult question to answer, sir.' I -havebeen writing since about the age of 11 or 12, I would say.  INDUSTRY 583 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you outline to the committee what your pro- fessional experience has been since you graduated from Dartmouth in 1936?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I will try to do it, sir as briefly as I can. In the summer of 1936 1 returned to Hollywood, Calif. During that summer I wrote short stories. In the fall I went to work at a film studio called the Selznick International, as a reader, and from that time to, I would say, 1939, on and off, I was what is known as a junior writer for the screen, although my main interest was in shortstory writing and fiction. And from 1936 until the present I have been publishing almost constantly in international magazines, as well as writing some novels.
Mr. TAVENNER. What novels have you written?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have written three, sir. The titles of them are: "What Makes Sammy Run?", "The Harder They Fall," and "The Disenchanted." 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write them in the order in which you named them?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, there has been testimony before the committee by Mr. Richard Collins, who appeared here on April 12, 1951, that you had been a member of the Communist Party in Hollywood in the late thirties, and that he had understood that you had withdrawn from the Communist Party as the result of a difficulty over the book, What Makes Sammy Run ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I guess some others run too, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And shortly after that testimony, in fact, on April 14, this telegram was received by the chairman of this committee: I have noted the public statement of your committee inviting those named in recent testimony to appear before your committee. My recollection of my Communist affiliation is that it was approximately from 1937 to 1940. My opposition to Communists and Soviet dictatorship is a matter of record. I will cooperate with you in any way I can. BUDD SCHULBERG, New Hope, Pa. Now, as a result of the receipt of that telegram, you were asked- to appear at a time that the committee could hear you.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you at any time voluntarily made known to an investigative agency of the Federal Government, prior to the testimony of Richard Collins, that you had been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I had. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to refer back for a moment to your educational training. You state that you completed your college course at Dartmouth in 1936. While at Dartmouth, did you become acquainted with William Remington ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe when I was a senior at Dartmouth College that he was a junior-no; I am sorry. I mean a freshman; and that when I was the editor of the college newspaper that he was one of the heelers, freshman heelers, for the paper. A heeler is someone bucking for a job on a newspaper. I did meet him at that time; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You had left Dartmouth College prior to his return to that institution after having been with the TVA in Tennessee? 584  
Mr. SCHULBERG. I am not sure of the dates of his return to college. I am more sure of mine. I left Dartmouth College in June 1936, and in May 1939 I didn't return to the college, but there is a town very close by where I took up residence while I was writing my first book.
Mr. TAVENNER..The testimony of Mr. Remington before this committee was that he returned to Dartmouth in September 1937. That would have been after you had left the institution ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; it would; I would say about a year and 2 or 3 months after I had left the institution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you attended Dartmouth College?
Mr. SCHULBERG. NO, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, there has been testimony before this committee of efforts made by the Communist Party in Hollywood to influence the work of writers in Hollywood, such as the Albert Maltz incident, with which I am certain you are familiar.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The screen play written by Richard Collins, which you may recall from the testimony of Mr. Collins; and the adaptation of a book to the screen, I believe the title of which was "Cornered," or possibly the title of which was "Crossfire"; do you recall which of the two it was, with which Mr. Dmytryk was concerned in his testimony ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, I am not sure. I believe he made both of those pictures and I am not sure about the case.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is unimportant as to which it is.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I think he made them both.
Mr. TAVENNER. The point is that Mr. Dymtryk testified at length regarding efforts made to influence the production of that picture, that is, efforts by the Communist Party.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I am aware of that, and that did strike a bell with me. I remember a somewhat similar incident in my life at a much earlier date.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to tell the committee in detail what your experience was while a member of the Communist Party with the efforts of the Communist Party to influence you in your writings. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder entered hearing room.)
Mr. SCHULBERG. I will try to do that, sir. From about 1937, as I say, I was first in a study group, a Marxist study group, which without any formality that I remember, became a Young Communist League group, and then I believe became a youth group, still more or less the same group, some changes here or there, a youth group of the Communist Party, as I say, in each step without much formality that I remember. I joined because at the time I felt that the political issues that they seemed to be in favor of, mostly I recall the opposition to the Nazis and to Mussolini and a feeling that something should be done about it, those things attracted me, and there were some others, too. At the same time I was very much interested in my own writing, as I say. In 1937, while a member of the group, and in 1938 also, I  began to write short stories. 585 These stories were published in many, many different magazines. I believe the feeling of the group was that these stories were not exactly what would be expected of someone writing as a Communist. Long before any difficulty that I got into for writing What Makes Sammy Run ? I was told these stories were too realistic, they were too depressing, decadent, and there were many other words. Having some soft sides in my nature, and on some sides a little stronger, I decided that as a writer I had to go ahead and write as well as I could what I felt like writing. During these years, I would say through 1938, while there was considerable and I would say a growing tension about this dispute, I must say I was on the political side still in favor of the immediate issues as the Communists seemed to be following them. I don't remember having any arguments then about trying to arouse people against the Nazis, and so forth, but I do remember many arguments about my writings. Though I had been somewhat of a zealot in 1936, I think I was much more of a zealot before I was in any organization. It is much easier before you are subjected to any discipline. By early 1939'I was definitely backsliding. I was trying to avoid as many meetings as I could and as many responsibilities as I could. 1 wasn't seeing the right people. Most of the people I was seeing were writers. Some of these writers might have been strongly opposed to the party. Some perhaps had not even heard of the party, I don't know, but they were not interested in the party as a group. The subject was brought up at the meetings that I was attending, and I told them that I was then interested inMr. TAVENNER. What type of meetings are you referring to now ?
Mr. SCHLBERG. I would say by 1939 that these were meetings of the youth group of the Communist Party. Whether it was a Young Communist League in early 1939 or a youth group of the Communist Party in the party, I honestly cannot say. I haven't been able to check. To my mind it was more or less a technicality. I think anytime around 1938 if they had asked me, "Do you mind if it is changed ?" I don't think I would have said "No," but I don't remember its being discussed. At these meetings I do remember my writing was discussed, and my attitude toward my work was discussed, and it was suggested that I correct my errors, I suppose you would say. At that time I told them I had decided to write a book. The feeling of the group was: "That is fine. Writing is very important, books are very important, provided that they are useful weapons. What kind of a book do you intend to write?"--since I had used my book as an excuse for dropping out and not going to meetings. I said I had written a short story published in Liberty magazine in 1937 which was entitled "What Makes Sammy Run?", and that I had been thinking seriously of developing that into a novel. In fact, I had written more than one short story. I had begun to write a series of short stories about a central character which were published in Liberty and other magazines and which later. became a part of the book that I was to write. 586 INDUSTRY The reaction to my idea for this book was not favorable, I would say. The feeling was that this was a destructive idea; that, again, it was much too individualistic; that it didn't begin to show what were called the progressive forces in Hollywood; and that it was something they thought should either be abandoned or discussed with some higher authority than the youth group before I began to work on it. (Representative Francis E. Walter entered hearing room.) MAr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you at that point. Who in the Communist Party group made suggestions of that type to you and engaged in a discussion of the matters you have referred to?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, sir, in the youth group many people felt strongly about it. I believe the one who either felt most strongly or was most responsible at that time was Richard Collins. He disapproved strongly of my attitude toward writing and toward the Communists. When no agreement could be reached, and when both sides were adamant about this, it was suggested by Collins, as I recall, that I speak to John Howard Lawson and that possibly he could advise me on the changes of the approach or in some way direct my work so that it would not have the destructive and individualistic approach that the group felt I was taking, one which was in opposition to the program of the party, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as a result of that advice, did you confer with John Howard Lawson?
Mr. SCHLBERG. Yes, sir; I did. I went to see Lawson. I believe it was suggested-I can't remember any longer if it was the group or Lawson that suggested that before I dropped out to do the book, that I submit some kind of outline, but either in the group or through Lawson it was suggested that I submit an outline and discuss the whole matter further, and if it was considered a project that was useful-there was a lot of talk at that time about proletarian novels. That is a museum piece now, but at that time there was a great deal of talk about the proletarian novel and how writers could be useful.
Mr. TAVENNER. Describe to the committee the proletarian novel to which you refer.
Mr. SCHULBERG. That is a difficult assignment. I will try. It was a kind of stock writing formula in that day. The writers were trying to write books about factories, about strikes, about opposition to capitalists, and so forth. SThis would be hindsight. I don't pretend any wisdom on the subject. But now that I look back, after having studied it more fully, I think it was very similar to what the writers in the Soviet Union were being told at the same time. They were being told that anything that helped the 5-year plan, that made the workers happier in their role, was a good book; if it did not, it was not a good book. Looking back now, it seems that most of the best writers in the Soviet Union were silenced because they were not willing to take that command. But I don't pretend to have known that at the time I was having my squabbles and arguments with Richard Collins, John Howard Lawson, and other people in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. I interrupted you in your narrative of what occurred with reference to the.pressure brought to bear upon you by Lawson and others.  INDUSTRY 587 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe it was decided that this was not a worthy project unless I submitted to much more discipline. It is always ,called self-discipline, though I didn't find much self-discipline in it, ;but it was called self-discipline and it was suggested you submit to it. Many people have submitted to this self-discipline, which, from what I can see, is imposed from without and does not have much to do with self. I decided I would have to get away from this if I was ever to be a writer. I decided to leave the group, cut myself off, pay no more dues, listen to no more advice, indulge in no more political literary discussions, and to go away from the party, from Hollywood, and try to write a book, which is what I did. I went to Vermont in May of 1939. I settled there and I began to write. I stayed there all through 1939 and into 1940. I believe I :spent a month or two at Mount Kisco in a hotel doing my final revisions-not final revisions, I guess a book is never finally revised, ;but doing some revisions. After that I returned to Hollywood again, after I had submitted :my book to the publishers.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return to Hollywood ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe in February or March 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, had your book been published by that time?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; it had not been published. It was at that -time being prepared for publication. It was not to be published for .another year. There is a long period of work, doing the manuscript*cutting, going over the galleys, and so forth, before a book is published. The book finally was published on March 27, 1941.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any further difficulty, or did you 'receive any further advice from the Communist Party, before the :publication of the book ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I did. When I returned, Richard Col- lins came to me-I am not absolutely sure, but I believe by this time 'he seems to have grown somewhat in importance in party groups. I think he had been treasurer of the group when I left. He seemed now to be in some position of greater authority. He came to me and said that they felt that my whole attitude had :been sharply in opposition to the party; that I had gone away without announcement. In those days-I suppose it is the same today- I am :sure it is-you were not supposed to go away without saying where you were going and getting what was called a transfer. You were sup-posed to transfer so that they could pick up your dues, and so forth, at the next place you went. I hadn't done this. I had simply broken -off and gone away. They didn't think this was a very good idea. 'They didn't think finishing my book and turning it in to my publisher without further consultation was a very good idea.
Mr. TAVENNER. Right there let me ask you: You were requested -to furnish to Lawson an outline of your book ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you do that?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; I did not. I think it was also suggested that I show him the book itself, which, also, I did not do. I feel very, very strongly that every writer has to choose his own guidance in these matters. 588 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you of the opinion that the lack of freedom of that description would destroy you as a writer ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I am not sure how consciously I knew it at that time. At the time I felt I had to get away from any control in order to be able to write at all; and, as I say, though Mr. Collins, I think, suggested that I get out because of the adverse criticism of the party to my book, actually, as I am sure he would remember, this had a very long history. It had begun with my very first short story and had increased as I continued writing. \What was your question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you to ask whether or not you had furnished to Lawson a copy of the book or outline.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Never; never; I never did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you were describing to us what had occurred prior to the publication and release of your book.
Mr. SCHLBERG. Yes, sir. Collins came to me and told me all the- criticisms that had been made against me. By this time it had increased. By this time there was another problem. I didn't seem to be too much in favor of the Nazi-Soviet Pact.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us go into that subject a little later. Let us confine ourselves for the moment to this pressure and influencebrought to bear upon you as a writer.
Mr. SCHULBERG. He said he thought I should come back to the group and not just go away and talk against them, as he had heard I had talked; not to be undisciplined, as he felt I had been for many years; and if I had these objections which he had heard I had told to others that I should come and at least present them and do it cleanI believe he said, "Are you in or out of this thing?" and that I said, "As far as I am concerned, since I left in May I am out." I had these discussions with the group, which were lengthy, both sides presenting their views, which continued to clash, and it was then suggested that I talk to John Howard Lawson, and that since they couldn't settle it, that maybe he could; and I did have a talk again with John Howard Lawson about the book. He felt that they should see it, and felt that it was not the sort of thing I should do, and in a sense indicated that I was not functioning as a Communist writer. This was also inconclusive. I think both positions were maintained just as they had been in the group. Finally it was suggested that I talk with a man by the name of V. J. Jerome, who was in Hollywood at that time. I went to see him. Looking back, it may be hard to understand why, after all these wrangles and arguments, I should go ahead and see V. J. Jerome. But maybe every writer has an insatiable curiosity about these things; I don't know. Anyway, I went. It was on Hollywood Boulevard in an apartment. I didn't do much talking. I listened to V. J. Jerome. I am not sure what his position was, but I remember being told that my entire attitude was wrong; that I was wrong about writing; wrong about this book, wrong about the party; wrong about the so-called peace movement at that particular time; and I gathered from the conversation in no uncertain terms that I was wrong. I don't remember saying much. I remember it more as a kind of harangue. When I came away I felt maybe, almost for the first  INDUSTRY 589 time, that this was to me the real face of the party. I didn't feel I had talked to just a comrade. I felt I had talked to someone rigid and dictatorial who was trying to tell me how to live my life, and as far as I remember, I didn't want to have anything more to do with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have spoken several times of your conferences on a lower level with a group, and you named Richard Collins as a member of that group. Will you identify that group more fully at this time as to whom they were who were talking to you, endeavoring to persuade you to desist in your plan of writing? I am not asking you to state at this time the names' of all the members of the Communist Party with whom you came in contact. I want to limit it at this point to those who took part in these discussions to which you have referred.
Mr. SCHULBERG. This would be the tone of the group in general. Some would feel more strongly about it and others less so. We think of the Communists as a monolithic block and in general movements I am convinced they are a monolith. The individuals varied. There were some stronger and some weaker. But I believe it was also the view of Paul Jarrico, and not to the same extent that of Ring Lardner, Jr. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who
Mr. SCHULBERG. Ring Lardner, Jr., who I felt always to be more tolerant in these matters than the others. Those are the principal members in the group itself that I remember discussing this with. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You were in the course of telling us what occurred after you returned to Hollywood in 1940 and prior to the release of your book in 1941. 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. Well, in the fall of 1940 I returned to New York to correct my galleys, and stayed there doing that and making last minute changes until sometime early in 1941. It seems to me I returned to Hollywood again shortly before my book was actually supposed to appear. I was only there a short time then, but I gathered that the feeling of the Communist Party against the book had been mounting. I think by that time there were advance copies of the book out. A book is in a sense out sometimes 3 months before it actually appears. I think advance copies had been read before it was out, and the feeling was that all the storm warnings that had been raised against me had been disregarded, and that the work that was about to come out was even worse than anyone could imagine. I was told- at that time that a meeting would take place. Well, no, I am not sure I was right then; I am not sure. I was a little bit excited at that time because it was my first novel and I was very curious as to what people would think of it, and I felt some people were not going to like it very well, and I decided to go down to a quiet spot and sit around on the beach, and maybe drop in at de Houslaus' Bar or something, and wait until this whole thing blew over. I did. I went to Ensenada, and I thought I was waiting for it to blow over. I guess it hasn't quite blown over yet. As I say, I had been told that there was going to be a meetin against the book. When I returned to Hollywood after the book 590 INDUSTRY had been published, I ran into various people. It turned out to be rather a controversial book inside the Communist Party, apparently,. and outside. People took rather violent sides on this. Some people disliked it intensely, and others were more favorable to it. I heard that a meeting was to take place. No, it wasn't quite like that. There was a review in the Daily Worker about that time. I think it was early April sometime before I returned from Ensenada. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. How long was that before the release of the book, do you recall?
Mr. SCHULBERG. As I recall, it was shortly after. about the time any other book review would come out. It would be 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of the release of your book?
Mr. SCHULBERG. March 27, 1941. So I would say that was about a week later. The book review was a very favorable book review. 
Mr. TAVENNER. From the Daily Worker?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. It said that this was "the Hollywood novel." It said that most of the novels before that treated with Hollywood had resorted to filth, and that this book was hearteningly free from all of this; that it dealt realistically with the Hollywood scene. I think I was called a realist; I think I was called in important comer; and in general it was a pretty good review. Apparently the review was a mistake. I heard there was consternation about the review and that somehow the reviewer had missed a signal.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any meetings held in Communist Party circles before the so-called mistake had been discovered ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. What meetings there were in Communist circles before, I honestly couldn't say, because I wouldn't have been a part of them, but I was told there was going to be a public meeting engineered by, but I don't believe confined to, Communists, at which the reviewer would be called to account and the real party line on the book would be laid down. I was asked if I wanted to come to this meeting, and I said that I didn't believe any writer should defend his book in public. I have never defended a book in public. I hope I am not doing it here, because it is something I don't believe in. A book is defended by the writer when he writes it, and after that everybody has a right to like or dislike it if he wishes.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is, in the United States ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Exactly; in the United States and I would say generally in the Western World.
Mr. JACKSON. Who extended this invitation or told you of this indignation meeting that was to be held ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That I can't remember. I can't remember exactly who it was who asked me to the meeting. It may have been one of any number of people, and I don't recall. I simply remember I was asked, and I remember what I said and that I refused to go. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, after the meeting, I understand various mis- takes were discovered. What were you referring to?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, I understand that it was pointed out at the meeting that this review was entirely opposite to what it should  INDUSTRY 591 have been; that the book was not an honest book; that it was a dis- honest book. I have copies of the two reviews. It would be too lengthy to describe them point by point.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have them here. I will introduce them.
Mr. SCHULBERG. In that case I will try to remember it as well as I can. The feeling was that I had slandered the progressive forces. I believe they said it was not a Hollywood novel at all. All the things brought out in the meeting which I am reporting, I neglected to say, appeared in a new review shortly after the meeting. The new review, by the same reviewer. It is the only time I have been reviewed good and bad by the same reviewer. It is the only time I ever remember one book reviewer reviewing the same book twice, 10 days apart, and in almost every instance one review was completely at variance with the other, point by point. The book which was not filthy was filthy; the book which-was realistic was reactionary; the book which was healthy was diseased.
Mr. VELDE. Was it reviewed by the same man in both instances?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes. I remember his name. It was Charles Glenn.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where was Charles Glenn then employed?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I imagine both by the Daily Worker and the Peo- ple's World. I believe those reviews appeared simultaneously in both newspapers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you known Charles Glenn prior to that time?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I may have met him once in Hollywood browsing around in a book shop one day. I knew him, I think I was introduced to him once before that, and that is all, simply as somebody who wrote on that paper.
Mr. WALTER. May I ask you a question at this point? What was there in the book, What Makes Sammy Run? that would cause the Communists to attack the book?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, sir; they could answer that much better than I could. As I recall the attack and the reviews, the objection was towhat I believe they called the whole approach to literature. I think they feel that you have to have a propagandistic point of view. They felt that I simply had not shown the things that they thought ought to be shown; that I had just written an individual story about one person. I never intended it to be typical of Hollywood. I didn't intend it to be typical of all the Hollywood producers. It was the story of one person as I saw him, characteristic, that I thought could happen but didn't happen in Hollywood all the time. It was at variance withwhat they thought a book about Hollywood should be.
Mr. WALTER. In other words, they objected to the fact you had over- looked a chance to slant a story ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I would say so, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. In fact, one of the criticisms was that you had not- dealt strongly enough with the work that had been done in the reorganization of the Screen Writers' Guild? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. That was one of their many objections, that they- felt I had almost-I am not sure if the word "slandered" was used, but they felt I had completely overlooked the real work that had been done to build up the guild, and had not placed enough emphasis on thelittle people of Hollywood and so on. I was not attempting to proveor disprove anything. I was just trying to tell my story. 592 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Elizabeth Leech Glenn ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir. I don't remember ever being acquainted with her.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to introduce in evidence the book reviews referred to. The first is taken from People's World of April 2, 1941, page 5, the heading of which is "Novel-the story of a Hollywood heel," by Charles Glenn. I desire to offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 1. 'The second is the issue of the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941 [p. 7], the heading of which is "What Makes Sammy Run ?-story of a Hollywood heel," by Charles Glenn. I offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 2. The third is the issue of the Daily Worker of April 8, 1941 [p. 7], and appears under the heading, "News in the world of stage and screen," by Charles Glenn. Desire to offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 3. The next is the April 24, 1941, issue of the People's World [p. 5], under the heading, "Hollywood vine," by Charles Glenn. I offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 4. And finally, the issue of April 23, 1941 [p. 7], of the Diily Worker, an article entitled, "Hollywood Can Be Won to the Side of the American People-Actors and Directors Respond to Criticism of Film Audiences," by Charles Glenn. I desire to offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 5.
Mr. WooD. Let them be received. (The book reviews above referred to, marked "Schulberg Exhibits 1, 2, 3,4, and 5," respectively, are filed herewith.) 1 (Representative Bernard W. Kearney left hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, I referred a moment ago to the review by Charles Glenn in which he made a favorable review, and the only criticism was that which I mentioned, that the battle to organize the Screen Writers' Guild was sketched too lightly in the novel. And you have described in a general way the favorable comment that was made by the representative of the Daily Worker.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I tried to.
Mr. TAVENNER. There was also an additional review by Charles Glenn on April 8, 1941, page 7, which has been introduced in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 3. Were you familiar with that second review which was also a favorable review ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; that I don't know about. I was aware of two reviews, one favorable and another that was not.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of this second review, exhibit 3, this statement is made: Originally, we passed on second-hand word about Budd Schulberg's new book, What Makes Sammy Run? Having finished it now, may we pass on word that while it doesn't qualify as the great American novel, it's still the best work done on Hollywood ? Showing that there had been a rather deliberate and painstaking review of your book by the reviewer of the Daily Worker which extended over a period of days. 1 Retained in committee files.  INDUSTRY 593 I would like to read into the record that portion of exhibits 4 and 5 in which Glenn explains the reasons for his change. In the Daily People's World of April 24, 1941, Mr. Glenn explained his about-face by this statement, and I quote: Since writing the review, I have received several criticisms on it. On the basis of these criticisms, I've done a reevaluation of my work. It's rather important that this reevaluation be done, not in the light of breast beating, but in the light of constructive self-criticism, by which anyone who writes for this paper must work. Understanding your own mistakes is the first requirement of criticism. If you don't understand your own, how can you be expected to consistently understand the weaknesses and mistakes of those on the other side of the fence? I want also to read into the record the explanation which appeared in the Daily Worker of April 23, 1941, which is exhibit 5. It is in this language, and I quote: On the basis of quite lengthy discussion on the book, I've done a little reevaluating, and this helps me emphasize the points I've tried to make here. * * * To say I felt more than a trifle silly when these weaknesses (in the Schulberg novel) were called to my attention is putting it a bit mildly. It is precisely the superficial subjective attitude shown in this review which reflects the dangers of an "anti-Hollywood" approach, conscious or unconscious. This isn't breast beating. It's a necessary criticism, because until the attitude reflected is cleaned up, Hollywood will not and cannot be considered the force for peace and progress it is and can be. Those were the explanations given after the meeting which you have referred to, in which your book had been criticized and Glenn had been called on the carpet about his first favorable report on your novel.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I had not realized there were two different re- views, but that does check with my memory of the one review I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. To emphasize clearly the way in which the Com- munist Party changed and followed the dictates of some directing authority, I want to read into the record, just very briefly, some of those outstanding points which you mentioned in the course of your testimony. What I am going to read now is from the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941, and also from the People's World of April 2, 1941, being the favorable review of Charles Glenn. This is his language: For slightly fewer years than they have awaited the great American novel, whatever that may be, American bibliophiles and critics have been awaiting the Hollywood novel. While they may argue its merits and demerits I've a feeling that all critics, no matter their carping standards, will have to admit they've found the Hollywood novel in Budd Schulberg's'What Makes Sammy Run? Now, in the retractive statement of Charles Glenn published in the People's World of April 24, 1941, this is what he says, and I quote: The first error I made was in calling the book the Hollywood novel. And I quote again, from the Daily Worker of April 23, 1941: Recently I wrote a review on Budd Schulberg's book, What Makes Sammy Run? I said it was the story of a Hollywood heel and could be regarded as the Hollywood novel. On the basis of quite lengthy discussion on the book, I've done a little reevaluating, and this helps me emphasize the points I've tried to make here. He then makes various criticisms, and adds: Can it then be termed "the Hollywood novel"? 81595-51-pt. 3- 5 594 INDUSTRY I want the record to also show one or two other points, so that it may be plain. I quote from the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941, and the People's World of April 2, 1941, which was the favorable review: Former works on the film city have been filthy with four-letter words, spoken and implied. * * * None of these things hold true for Schulberg's novel. There is nothing vulgar in what he says, nothing superficially vulgar, that is. * * * Writing in the first person, Schulberg tells of the good as well as the bad. Then, after the meeting, from the Daily Worker of April 23, 1941, appears this statement: We do not intend to go into all the aspects of the conscience of a writer, a conscience which allows him (with full knowledge of the facts) to show only the dirt and the filth. And from the People's World again, of April 24, 1941, after the meeting, I quote: In a full-drawn portraiture of either Sammy Glick or Hollywood, the people must be seen in action, living the lives they lead. Even more effective would the filth of Sammy Glick become when counterposed to the cleanliness of the people. 
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Counsel, may I make a comment at this point?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. VELDE. I feel very definitely that this illustrates the degree of control the Communist Party had over the People's World- and the New York Daily Worker and all writers in their jurisdiction.
Mr. TAVENNER. I call attention to one other point which I desire to be shown in the record. In the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941, and the- People's World of April 2, 1941, which are the favorable reviews, this language appears: Characters [referring to former books on Hollywood] have been drawn black and white, most Hollywood denizens turning out to be unadulterated heels. * * * None of these things hold true for Schulberg's novel. Then, after the meeting, from the People's World of April 24, 1941, appears this language: Some day that story of the Guild will be thoroughly told, well dramatized, and done in all the shades of gray which entered the picture, not on the plain black and whites drawn in the Schulberg book. You mentioned a moment ago that you have never known of a more complete reversal in a review than there was in this case.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have never seen anything like that; no, sir. I have seen some reviews of my work that I myself might like to change a little bit, but I believe very deeply that in this country every man must act on the basis of his own individual conscience, and that that is one of our privileges and that no'one should ever have to change his mind because of dictation from above or outside.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has your attention been drawn to another criticism of your book from Communist sources?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, sir, I could not identify it as officially a Communist source, but there was a magazine review which I believe was more or less in line with this general attack on me and my work; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that the article written by W. L. River, appearing in the Clipper publication?  INDUSTRY 595 
Mr. SCHiLBERG. Yes, sir; it is. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The issue of June 21, 1941, at page 20. I will ask you to look at that review and state if it is the one to which you refer? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Thank you. [After examining document:] Yes, it is.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire merely to file this. I will not introduce it as an exhibit.
Mr. SCHULBERG. May I say, sir, that I do remember that review quite well, and that I felt he had a right to write it. If it was his own individual opinion, I would have no objection. If it was part of, in a sense, a mass effort, I would then object very strongly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the writer, W. L. River ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I knew him slightly; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not he was a member of the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I could not say definitely that he was; no, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Do you know whether or not Charles Glenn was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Only by assuming that anyone writing for those publications would be.
Mr. WALTER. By that you mean nobody would have a job with the Daily Worker or this other publication unless he was a Communist?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That would be my hunch. I have never tried to get a job with them, but that would be my hunch.
Mr. WALTER. A pretty good hunch.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Pretty good; yes.
Mr. VELDE. As a matter of fact, I think testimony before this com- mittee was to the effect that all writers for the Daily Worker, People's World, and New Masses had to be Communist Party members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, is this effort within the Communist Party of the United States to control the work of writers, which you have so graphically described in your own case, consistent with what is occurring in Russia, from any information that is available to you?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe it is; yes, sir; I do. I believe that writing has been very tightly controlled there, and that those who refused to follow the party line were not able to write, or sometimes ceased to exist. On the other hand, those who did, received all kinds of emoluments and were the most privileged people there. I think that has been the history of writing in the Soviet Union, with perhaps one exception.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been in the Soviet Union ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
Mr. SCHULBERG. In 1934, during the summer. May I say that I don't want to sound too sure of the subject, but 2 or 3 months ago I did begin to write an article on the subject of what has happened to writing in the Soviet Union between my first visit in 1934, when I must say Iwas very impressed, and 1951, which is a relatively short period. I have done a great deal of research on the subject.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee the benefit of your research and your views at this time, briefy ? I think it fits in exactly with the pattern that you have described in matters that have affected 596 INDUSTRY you, and it is particularly pertinent that you contrast the experience which you have gone through with what you have discovered from your studies are the conditions in the other country.
Mr. SCHULBERG. In the late twenties and early thirties writing was controlled by a proletarian group. I have forgotten the name of the organization. It was an organization that controlled all writing, and unless you were satisfactory to the head of this group you just didn't write. I am talking about the Soviet Union. This is in Russia. Those writers who didn't conform to that were silenced. I think the very best writers, Isaac Babel and many others, felt they could not write under those circumstances. They had slogans for writing. One slogan was: "All novels must make workers feel happier under the 5-year plan." If the book suggested it was not altogether true, or only 99.9 percent true, there was a good chance it would not be published. If it suggested it was only 50 percent true, there was a good chance the writer would not be around any more. One day, according to my research, Stalin looked around and said, "Our writing is pretty dull." They said, "Let's find the man who is making it dull." They got the man, who was the head of this group, and sent him to Siberia and shot him. For 2 years there was a lessening up. When I went there in 1934 there was a writers' congress, which was more or less a welcoming back of all the people who had been silenced and under cover. The reason for that was that Gorki, head of the writing organization, believed there should be a more lenient attitude. I was on the platform at that writers' congress, and that is what did impress me. I remember Gorki speaking, and a man named Bukharin spoke, and Isaac Babel spoke, and many of the great poets, Pasternak, and so forth. This is hindsight. I think it is a striking fact that every man who appeared on the platform and called for greater leniency-I think it was called a new silver age of literature-every one of these men by 1938 had either been shot or been silenced, and after that none of these writers, who were trying to follow their individual line, were able to function any more. Some were silenced. Some committed suicide. Some disappeared. Some decided to conform and wrote in the approved style and made a lot of money and did very well. I believe that is much the situation today. I really believe that you have to conform or in some way you get out or they put you out. I don't know if I should say it in connection with this, but there is an organization called Friends for Intellectual Freedom.
Mr. TAVENNER. I was just going to ask you about that. What part have you been playing in the work of that organization, and describe the work of the organization.
Mr. SCHULBERG. The organization is interested in helping those writers who have suffered under those conditions and who are able to get out and to try to rehabilitate them and to help them write as they please. For that reason, a number of writers, novelists-Arthur Koestler, Aldous Huxley, Graham Greene, John Dos Passos, James T. Farrell, Richard Revere, Stephan Spender, and myself, among others; I believe there are others-have decided to try to raise funds, if they can, to help these people.  INiDUSTRY 597 I am in a sense sorry to have to mention it, because it has not been an organization that has been seeking any publicity at all. It is sup- posed to be just a direct contribution from writer to writer and has discouraged any wide publicity. The thought was that those who were able to write as they pleased would turn over a percentage of their own royalties to those people who haven't been able to do that.
Mr. WALTER. Where are the beneficiaries of that program located
Mr. SCHULBERG. In Western Germany, I believe, and in France, and here, any writers who are deemed worthy and who are refugees from the system.
Mr. RHETTs. Mr. Tavenner, we have here simply a statement of what this organization is, its purposes, and something about it, and if the committee would like to have it I would be glad to make it available.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; we shall be glad to have it.
Mr. RHETTS. Would you care to introduce it as an exhibit?
Mr. TAVENNER. We will file it with his testimony.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe through these people we will have an op- portunity to get first-hand information on what has actually been happening. For instance, I have heard a number of stories. One is that a very distinguished Soviet critic, Corvely Zelinsky, decided he would try to write the history of the Soviet literature. He began with high hopes after the writers' congress I have described, but so many changes had to be made, for instance, one chapter would have to be thrown out because it was written about a writer who was just ar- rested, and so forth, that he decided after 3 years that it was impossible to write a history of literature in the Soviet Union that would be hon est.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, the changes were probably for the same reason that John Howard Lawson was required to change his history that he was writing, if you are familiar with that testimony ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe it does have exactly the same effect; yes, sir. I was very interested in finding out that meetings are held and writers are denounced and from that time on their works are no longer in publication. I feel that the only difference with me is that we have many different forms of publications. There is not a single one where, if you fall out with a group, you are finished. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have there been any instances where you have ob- tained direct information from a person who has been subjected to that type of treatment in Russia ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. In the preparation of this article which I- began, as I said, 3 months ago, I wrote to someone who was somewhat of an authority in this field, who had come out of Russia only in the last 2 or 3 years, and I told him of my experience in 1934 when I had been impressed. I told him I had met Gorki and a playwright by the name'of Alfinogenoff, and many others, and it had begun to strike me that all the people who told me how hopeful they were, in 1934, weren't around any more. I said I didn't know any more about it than that writers' congress, because I had attended. I asked if he could fill me in on what happened after that time, and he did write me a letter which I found extremely enlightening, and if you wish I will read some parts of it. 598 
Mr. TAVENNER. I will not ask you to disclose at this time the name of the person who wrote you the letter.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Thank you, sir. It is a rather long letter. I don't want to read it all.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to read the parts that are pertinent to the inquiry, whether short or long.
Mr. SCHULBERG (reading): You were very fortunate to be in Moscow in 1934. The period from April 1932 (decree abolishing the special proletarian groups in literature and art) to 1935 was a time of good and new hopes. During that period the Soviet literature was under the strong and friendly leadership and protection of Maxim Gorki. The apogee of that short "silver age" was the first convention of the Soviet writers in September 1934. The principal speakers at the first convention were Gorki (Soviet Literature and Socialistic Realism) and Nicholai Bukharin (The Problems of Soviet Poetry). The last name certainly shows what a tolerant atmosphere was present at the convention. Among the many speakers was Isaac Babel. This gifted novelist was silenced since 1927 (or 1928) and I still remember how surprised and pleased I was to see him on the podium speaking a brilliant speech in his usual sharp-witted manner. The all materials of the first convention seemed to be unorthodox, doubtful and unreliable for Stalin. This is very important for clear understanding what had happened in 1936 and 1937. It is easy to remark that all repressions and liquidations in the literature and in the literary circles which took place during the Yernov era- I don't know what that iswere tightly connected with the first convention, its most important speakers and organizers. Gorki was poisoned (1936), Bukharin was dismissed from his * * * office as editor in chief of "Izvestia", arrested (1937) and shot (1938) Then there were a bunch of Russian names (continuing reading) : and many other .novelists were arrested-the same as poets Pavel Vassiliyev, Boris Kornilov, Zaholotsky, Smelyakoff and others. Some of their colleaguesprominent Soviet writers and poets completely stopped their creative activityamong them Selvinsky, Pasternak, Sholockov, Fedin, and Leonov. After 1937 Soviet literature was like a big army retreating after unsuccessful decisive battle. Some generals were missing, some retreated in silence, trying not to show their fear and doubts. Others tried to make a gay look and impression that nothing of importance was happening. This group did not stop their activity during the Yernov era and produced some bad plays and novels. * * * Some of the writers who belonged to the silent group later (in 1939 or 1940) broke the silence and started to write in the new orthodox way. It was a great creative degradation for them. So did Tolstoy, Sholockov, Fedin, poet Antokolsky. Some of the writers never tried again-like Boris Pasternak-the finest poet of contemporary Russian and an extremely noble and honest person. So far as I know he only translates from English and French. During the war he translated Hamlet. But I have never heard that any of them did something active "anti" like Meyerhold. I might say when I went to the Soviet Union in 1934 one of the things that had impressed.me most was that I had an opportunity to meet Meyerhold, who was the foremost stage director in the Soviet Union and probably one of the outstanding ones in the world, and he showed me through his theater (continuing reading) : The case of Meyerhold was a unique one. It certainly was a very rare combination of the big mistakes of the Government. * * * I think I should explain he is writing something that is known to me. Meyerhold had been a director until 1937. At that time his technique fell into disrepute and he was under a very strong cloud. I don't think he was allowed to produce anything at all in 1937. In 1939  INDUSTRY 599 there was a meeting of the stage directors in Russia and Meyerhold, who had been silenced for a long time, asked for an opportunity to speak. He got up and spoke on June 14, 1939, and I honestly believe that his speech will go down as one of the great speeches in defense of individual conscience in the field of art. He told them he had always done the best that he could in his own way; that he couldn't follow anybody else's line or point of view; but that if he was a formalist, and if all the plays he saw on the stage at that time were Socialist realism, he was glad to be a formalist, and so forth. The day after that speech Meyerhold disappeared, and when the yearbook came out at the end of the year, giving all the speeches of the directors at this convention, Meyerhold's speech was conspicuous by its absence. I think in another 20 or 30 years probably nobody in that country will have ever heard of Meyerhold. I think he will be completely removed and will be what is called a non-person. Shall I continue this letter, sir? 
Mr. TAVENNER. If there is anything else there pertinent to our discussion.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I don't believe so, except for one last word about Afinogenoff. He had been one of my hosts. I had gone to his home when I was in the Soviet Union in 1934. I went to see one of his plays. I asked what had happened to Afinogenoff, and he said in 1937 or 1938 they decided Afinogenoff's plays were not good, not following the line, and they were removed from the repertoire of the Soviet Union.
Mr. TAVENNER. And do I understand it was the same general type of disagreement with regard to a writer's freedom to write that caused your original disaffection with the Communist Party ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I now believe it was. I didn't relate it that way at that time, but it was something which the Communists call a social command. A writer in a sense was looked upon as a soldier, and he was given certain social commands, and if he didn't follow those social commands he was no longer permitted to function in that system. I think at that time I was being given a social command. I didn't know it at the time by that name, neither did they, but I think in a mild way that is what it was.
Mr. WooD. The committee will stand in recess until 2: 30. (Thereupon, at 12:20 p. m., a recess was taken until 2:30 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION 
Mr. WALTER. The committee will come to order. Let the record show the committee members present consist of Mr. Doyle, Mr. Walter, Mr. Velde, and Mr. Frazier. TESTIMONY OF BUDD SCHULBERG-Resumed 
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, 600 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish you would now tell the committee the cir- cumstances under which you became a member of the Communist Party, fixing the date as nearly as' you can.
Mr. SCHTULBERG. In the summer of 1936 I returned to Hollywood and in the fall of that year I went to work as a reader in a studio and what they call a junior writer. As I said this morning, I felt like many young men in that particular period; I was disturbed by the unemployment problem and what seemed to me the rising tide of aggression in Europe. It Was during that period that somebody came to me by the name of Stanley Lawrence.
Mr. TAVENNER. Stanley Lawrence? *
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. I have been trying to fix the place where we met, and I can't. I have the impression of his just coming up to me somewhere, either at home-I am just not sure any more-and saying that he had heard that I was interested in this problem, that I was concerned about the growth of naziism and so forth, and that I might be interested in joining a Marxist study group. I said that I thought I would be interested in joining it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know or did you know at that time whether or not Lawrence held a high position within the Communist Party in Hollywood?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir, at the time I had no idea who he was. He said that he had done a good deal of teaching of Marxism and had a job during the day and was interested in teaching this class at night. As far as I know at that time that was the only way I could identify him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you subsequently discover how high his position was in the Communist Party ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I would say in the next year and a half I definitely did, sir, yes. By degrees, I would say.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe what his function was in the Communist Party as far as you are able to do so ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. We began this study group it seems to me it was somewhere early in 1937. I think that the teaching of Marx was fairly elementary, and I honestly don't think I ever mastered it. After the study group was going for some time, Lawrence dropped out of it and only would come once in a while. It was only later on that I did find out that he had started, I suppose, many groups like this one group that I was in and that he had become the head of the Communist movement in Hollywood at that time. I believe that would be around 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did other individuals confer with you either be- fore Stanley Lawrence spoke to you or soon thereafter about your joining the Communist Party? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. There were two people about the same time late in 1936 or early in 1937 who talked to me about the Communist Party in general and told me that they felt that it was sort of leading the way in trying to work up as much feeling as possible against the Nazis and against aggression in Europe and so on. They talked to me in pretty general terms, but they did talk to me about the Communist Party. They didn't ask me to join it directly; no. I should say that this first study group was not part of the party. When Stanley Lawrence came to me he simply said, do you want to  601 join this study group, and I said "Yes," not conscious that this was actually a part of the Community Party. In fact, I suppose in some ways it wasn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did the conversation with the two other persons take place in relation to the first approach by Stanley Lawrence ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. In my mind it is just about the same period, either late in 1936 or somewhere early in 1937. I think it preceded-I think it preceded Lawrence's coming to me and asking me about the study group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the individuals who approached you?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Their names were Robert Tasker and John Bright.
Mr. TAVENNER. Bright? How do you spell the last name?
Mr. SCHULBERG. B-r-i-g-h-t. SMr. VELDE. How do you spell the first person you mentioned?
Mr. SCHULBERG. T-a-s-k-e-r. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Tasker is now deceased, I believe.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, I think he is. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us any information as to the present occupation of John Bright
Mr. SCHULBERG. He was a screen writer at the time. I haven't seen him in many years and I don't know where he is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now will you proceed to tell us further about your recruitment into the party ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. The group was studying Marx, and Lawrence at that early time would relate these things to current events. At some point which I can't identify exactly, there was a change-I think one reason I can't is that it wasn't a formal change and was pretty much the same group, as I remember, and I remember them mostly because these were the people who went on with me as being the ones I mentioned this morning, Richard Collins and Paul Jarrico, and Ring Lardner. At some point it was suggested by Lawrence that these things that we were talking about and all believed in, which at that time were very, very general issues because the feeling in those days seemed to be extremely broad, they said that any man of good will, anybody opposed to fascism, really could join the party. I believe it was even said that you didn't have to believe in all of the points of the program. You could even disagree with some. I am pretty sure that was said to me at that time. It was also said that this was not a revolutionary organization and that it supported the Constitution and so forth. That was also said. Anyway, somewhere in 1937, I believe, the group changed from a study group to a Young Communist League group. As I said, without any formality that I can recall, they all came back and sat down the same way as before and sat around and talked the same way as before, pretty much the same people as before, but simply implemented their studies now with more actual activity. The stress began to be more in the field of activity than in any kind of study.
Mr. WALTER. Then what actually happened was that Stanley Lawrence set up this organization and after giving the members some fundamental instructions he moved on to continue the same sort of work elsewhere.
Mr. SCHULBERG. That is exactly the way it seemed to me, sir. At first he spent most of his time, all of his time, and then less and less, and the group continued by its own momentum. 602 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WALTER. Who took over after he abandoned it?
Mr. SCHULBERG. There was no real director of it. There was a leader. I think at the very first I was probably as much of a leader as anybody was. I would say around 1937. As I became more interested in writing I became less interested in being active in the political activities. Lawrence would drop in from time-he would come in often, as a matter of fact, not just from time to time. He would come in, say, every two or three times, and sometimes even at the end of such a gathering he would come in for 15 minutes or half an hour. So in a sense I would say he kept tabs on it probably in the same line, I am not sure, also he kept tabs on it probably in the same way.
Mr. TAVENNER. He joined the Abraham Lincoln Brigade and was killed in overseas fighting; was he not?
Mr. SCHRLBERG. I heard that he did; yes, sir. exactly. It seems to me it was in 1938 sometime. I don't remember- 
Mr. JACKSON. How many members were there in this group that was established by Mr. Lawrence?
Mr. SCHULBERG. About eight-six to eight. It would vary some- what because things were much more informal in those days. Young men would be asked in or invited or just drop in, who were not actually members of the group and could sit in and see if they liked it. People would bring friends, and so forth, so it would vary. That is why I think more of the people who went on, but others did come in and go out. I would say an average would be seven or eight.
Mr. JACKSON. How many meetings would you say you attended over the period of time in which you were associated with the group ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have never tried to figure that out, sir. I believe the group met about once every 2 weeks. My attendance was quite consistent at the beginning, and then from 1938 on began to drop off. In other words, there would be meetings that I would not attend.
Mr. JACKSON. But your attendance commenced when ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. My attendance-let's see. The study group began early in 1937. Just when we made the change to the Young Communist League, I am not sure.
Mr. JACKSON. It was a period of about a year, then, that your attend- ance was more or less regular.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I would say more or less regular. I think from 1937 it was probably most regular, at which time it was a study group, and I would say that somewhere along the end of that year is when the change was made to the Young Communist League, although I am not sure of the actual date of transition.
Mr. JACKSON. This was not by any chance the same study group that gave Mr. Lawrence headaches; was it ? He testified that dialectics gave him headaches. Was Marc Lawrence in that group ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I think not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your testimony has related to Stanley Lawrence, an entirely different individual?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. I understand that.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Not Marc Lawrence, but Stanley Lawrence. I can understand how the dialectics would give people headaches over many things which are difficult to understand.  INDUSTRY 603 
Mr. VELDE. I am not quite sure on the name of the organization which you first joined. Was it the Young Communist League or was the name changed ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No sir. The first organization had no name at all. In other words, Lawrence came to me and said, "Are you interested in joining a study group which studies Marx," and so forth. There was no name and no formal organization attached to it at all. It was like any informal class at night.
Mr. VELDE. Then later it did, in 1938, change into the Young Communist League ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That is right, sir. 
Mr. VELDE. And you had membership then in what you knew as the Young Communist League?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I did.
Mr. VELDE. I believe this morning you testified thatlater it changed into something else. Was that the American Youth for Democracythe AYD, as it is commonly known ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I don't remember that at all. This is my impression of the transition. It seems that it went through three or possibly four stages. First, a study group which had, as far as I knew, no organizational connection. It was just a study group. Then it became a Young Communist League group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it in the nature of an indoctrinational group for prospective Communist recruits?
Mr. SCHuLBERG. The Young Communist League ?
Mr. TAVENNER. The first group.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I am sure that that is what it was, though I didn't think of it that way at the time. That is what it turned out to be because at a time when we were far enough along and when Lawrence said, we are really doing the same things, and these were the things which seemed to me right at the time, we were concerned with this problem and it did seem to me-and we were also being told at the same time that the Communists seemed to be taking the lead in breaking down the feeling of isolationism and so forth, building up and participating in the Anti-Nazi League, and that sort of thing. At one point Lawrence said, "Well, this is really the same thing. You feel this way and think this way," which I did. "And the Young Communist League has the same principles, except that they do more about it than simply sit around and study," and at that time I agreed.
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned the Young Communist League again. I wonder if counsel recalls when the Young Communist League was changed to the American Youth for Democracy.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I didn't know that it had been.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will give you the exact date in a moment. It was October 1943.
Mr. VELDE. Then as far as you are concerned, Mr. Schulberg, you never participated in any of the activities of the American Youth for Democracy ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; I don't think I know much about it, for that matter.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask this question. I notice, Mr. Schulberg, the group about which you testified organized in 1937 ? You said that in 1939, at the age of 25, you broke with the Communists because of their 604 INDUSTRY efforts to dictate. You just stated that Mr. Lawrence made certain statements to you, and you replied "I agreed." Did he make those statements to you alone or were you in a group which he was trying to convert? In other words, was it an argument? Was it a speech? How did he present these comparative ideas showing that the Communist idea was the same as that which the group already held? Was, it to you individually or to the group ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. This would be to the group, sir; to a group. He would say that this is really an extension of democracy; that these things needed to be done. He would talk about the current events of the time to the group, not to me alone. I don't recall after the first meeting any-I can't recall, at least, any talks with him alone.
Mr. DOYLE. Was he an invited speaker ? Was he a program speaker? How did it come about that he attended the meetings?
Mr. SCHvULBERG. He formed it. He set up the group in the begin- ning. 
Mr. DOYLE. Was he the sole speaker or did you have other speak- ers-this group which he organized?
Mr. SCHULBERG. It wouldn't really be as formal as that. It was a study group which he would lead.
Mr. DOYLE. He was the sole leader ?
Mr. SCHrTLBERG. Yes, sir; he was the sole leader.
Mr. WALTER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you whether the individual whose name was John Bright was a member of this group.
Mr. SOHULBERG. No, sir; he was not in that group. One reason might have been that these were all very young people, all about from the age of, I would say, almost 18 or 19 to 21 or 22. It was set up specifically as a group of young people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of any of the work which Bright did later in the moving-picture industry ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. He was for a long time-he has written many screen plays over the years. I am not sure specifically of any one. I connect him chiefly with gangster films in those days, around 1936 or 1937. I think he wrote a number of gangster films.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names of other persons who from time to time became affiliated with that group-that is, the group in the Communist Party to which you belonged?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Besides the ones I remember definitely in 1937, there was Waldo Salt. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Waldo Salt?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes. I don't believe he was in the original group, but came in at some later time. I couldn't place the time. It seems to me early in 1938, but I am not too clear on these dates.
Mr. TAVENNER. In whose homes were meetings held ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. They would be held at the various homes of the people in the group. As far as I recall, it would rotate. Once in a while, mine, sometimes at Jarrico's or Collins' apartment, at the house of Lardner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ring Lardner?
Mr. SCHUJLBERG. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ring Lardner, Jr.?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir.  INDUSTRY 605 
Mr. JACKSON. Who assumed the initiative in calling these meetings?
Mr. SCHULBERG. It went on under a kind of momentum, I would say. They would be at set periods, I think, every 2 weeks. It might have been every week. I think there was a time when it variedsometimes every 2 weeks and sometimes every week. At the end we would just say next time we will see you over at such-and-such a place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you meet at the home of Waldo Salt ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe so. I can't say for sure, but I believe so.
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you in the course of your statement of the names of persons who became affiliated with this group. named Waldo Salt. You 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, are there others?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Meta Reis was in this group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Meta Reis Rosenberg ? Is that the same person ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Meta Reis Rosenberg; yes, that is right. At that time her name was Meta Reis. She was in it. It seemed to me that at some point, as I remember, she was there for not very long and then went to some other group. I am not sure exactly how that was or how it took place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there others?
Mr. SCHULBERG. The others that I remember are Mrs. Tuttle, Tania Tuttle, who was also in this group. She may have replaced Meta Reis in it. That is my impression. I believe that she did. Then after I left and came back-after I left the groupMr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. Go ahead.
Mr. SCHULBERG. In 1939 when I began these-not began, but when the argument culminated about my writing which I had begun about the end of 1937, which had been going on in short stories, and I had begun to think about novel writing, when I came back in 1940 and talked to Collins and told him I didn't want to come back at all and he urged me at least to present my point of view, at that time I also had written out my reasons for being against the Nazi-Soviet Pact. I told him all these different reasons why I didn't want to go back. Much of what I went into this morning was the gist of what I told him, although by this time I had also many political differences which frankly I hadn't had before. I had felt all through the thirties that this was a good thing and that this was really a leading force against fascism and that it should be supported. After that pact I didn't feel the same way about it and I told him. He asked me to at least come back and in a sense make a clean break, to present my various reasons, and so at that time I attended some meetings. I don't believe that I paid any dues at that time. I think I simply came back and was presenting my point of view. At that time I had the distinct impression that the group had changed in about the year or 9 or 10 months that I had been away in Vermont; that the group had changed its character; in other words, that it was no longer a youth group. All through that time it had been a study group and then a Young Communist League group of young people, and now it was a mixture more or less of people of varying ages. The youth nature of it had been dissolved. 606 INDUSTRY I believe that somewhere in here the young Communist group-the Young Communist League-came into the Communist Party. I don't want to say it was while I was away because that might look as though I am trying to be only in the Young Communist League and not in the Communist Party. I am not trying to do that because I think it well might have come before I left to go to Vermont. But I don't remember any discussion about the Young Communist League group becoming a youth group of the Communist Party. However, when I came back I do remember well that the nature of the group had changed and that there were many older people in it, although still a few of the people I had seen before, but now two or three or four older persons as well. - Mr. TAVENNER. Who were they? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe Herbert Biberman was in that group. I say believe because he had come to meetings before of the Young Communist League group, and he might have come to this group especially because of me; I am not sure, but he was there. Lester Cole was in that group and somebody by the name of Kelly. Kelly, I don't remember having seen before I left California. Incidentally-no, sir; very definitely it was not Gene Kelly.
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't mean to indicate that it was. I wanted you to make certain that it was not.
Mr. SCHrmLBERG. No, sir; it was not.
Mr. TAVEN-NE. You meant that it was not.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I meant that it was not Gene Kelly. Someone called Kelly who, with Collins seemed to be the most active or the most responsible in the group. Beyond that I thought that Kelly was a person of some authority on some administrative level beyond that group. But I don't remember his actual position in the industry or ever having been introduced to him before.
Mr. TAVENNER. There is no way by which you can give any further identification of him as to where he lived, his approximate age?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I could give a vague description and that is all. -He seemed to be in his early thirties.
Mr. TAVENNER. A vague description would not be of any value. 'Mr. SCHULBERG. That is all I could do, sir. I didn't know where he lived or exactly what he did. I gathered he had some job in the film business, but I had never seen him before.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. Schulberg, during this period of time did you know an indi- vidual by the name of Wirsic?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; I did not.
Mr. JACKSON. Von Blatt? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; I never heard that name.
Mr. JACKSON. That is all.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Was that all one name ? SMr. JACKSON. No; those are two names.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Albert Maltz?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I knew Albert Maltz, and my one distinct memory of him is during the time of the attack on my book by the party. I couldn't definitely identify him in the party, as he was never in a meeting with me, but he called me one day at a time when I was telling everybody how I felt about what was happening. He asked me to drop over and see him if I was ever going by.  INDUSTRY 607 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there others whose names you can now recall?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Should I finish with this?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. I thought you had finished.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Mr. Maltz said that he heard that I felt very strongly about the attack that had been made on my book by Lawson and by all these people, and that he felt rather sympathetic, that he felt there was too tight a control of writing by the Communists and that I was somewhat on the right track, but much too impulsive and wanting to solve the whole thing overnight. He gave me the impression that he agreed with me, but felt that it could be done possibly in a more gradual way. That is why, very frankly, I was extremely interested when I heard about the testimony of Mr. Dmytryk because when Mr. Dmytryk was under the same sort of attack 6 or 7 years later that I had been and strangely enough by much the same people, I believe I forget now, but I think John Lawson and I think Richard Collins were also involved in that. I am not sure. I believe he said it was Albert Maltz who was more or less the voice of reason there who tried to get them to ease off. That did interest me very much because that was much the same kind of conversation that I remembered having with him that day.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there outside speakers who attended your group meetings?
Mr. SCHULBERG. In the Young Communist League days the two that I definitely remembered were Herbert Biberman and Lester Cole, but they did come in and speak-also John Howard Lawson-on various issues, such as world events. Mostly in the case of Biberman he seemed to specialize in that, or the Screen Writers' Guild and since local issues seemed to be more Lester Cole's province, just the general approach, the over-all approach, I would say, seemed to fall to John Howard Lawson.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke this morning of the great proletarian novel. You used that term.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, so I did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any individual within the Communist Party whom you can identify with reference to the so-called great proletarian novel?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I think as far back as 1937 when I was still- at that time I felt split. On the political side I was completely in agreement with the other members. I don't remember having any differences there. But I always had differences on the literary side. *Even for a short story as early as 1937 I was criticized very severely along the lines that I stated this morning. About this time a writer known to me as a Communist writer by the name of Harry Carlisle called on me just in a social way, just called on me at my home and talked to me somewhat about the Communist approach to writing and told me that there was a young Communist writer living in Santa Monica not far from Hollyw.ood who had just written some very effective labor stories, for one of the Communist periodicals at the time. He said he thought if I talked more with her and got more of her approach to this and got a better understanding of what a Com- munist writer's responsibilities were, I might be able to strengthen my own work. I did go to see her and had several meetings with her.
Mr. TAVENNER. With whom? 608 INDUSrTRY 
Mr. SCHULBERG. With a young writer by the name of Tillie Lerner. She was then writing a proletarian novel, I think an extension of a series of short stories that she had written. I think at that time I had the feeling that maybe I could learn how this proletarian novel was done. I have yet to see one that really pulled the trick. I feel the so-called proletarian novel is a kind of museum piece myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you further identify RHarry Carlisle, that is, as to his position?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; I can't. The only time that I saw him was this one time, and I don't know what position he had. I don't know if he was told to come and see me about my deviations and the rest. He must have heard about it, of course,.so I gather he was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the names of any other persons who became associated wth your group from time to time, particularly after your return in 1940 ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Beside those I have tried to tell you, there was Kelly, Biberman, Cole, I believe-I am almost sure that Gordon Kahn was there. When I say almost sure, it may seem strange at times you can't remember exactly who was in a group, but I think he was there also. Then I believe I did tell you about my final talk with Jerome, at which time-I hadn't known exactly what his position was, but from what everybody said I gathered very much that he wasMr. TAVENNER. I will ask you to repeat your experience with Jerome. You did tell us this morning that in connection with your difficulties with the Communist Party relating to its efforts to bridle you in your work, you also came into disagreement with the party on political grounds and that the two things combined to result in your disaffection with the party. So now will you tell us more in detail just how you became disaffected with the party and how you left the party, if you did.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I definitely did, sir, and I will try to tell you how, though it does repeat much of what I said. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Try not to repeat what you have already said. Just make reference to it in a general way.
Mr. SCHULBERG. In a way not to repeat it is to say that when I returned in 1940 after the completion of my book, my first book, and had these sharp disagreements first with Collins, then the group, then with Lawson and finally with Jerome, that parallel with the talk about the book went my disagreements on these other things. In fact, I brought to the meeting my actual points, which I do still have in my files, for objecting strenuously to the Nazi-Soviet pact. I also objected-I think I had just finished at that time or it was shortly after that-to the invasion of Finland. It does become repetitious because all of these things together were treated as simply the final result that I refused to accept any of the discipline that you are expected to assume as a member of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result you broke with the party ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Notwithstanding this break with the party which you have described, you did continue from time to time, did you not, to make contributions of writings to the Communist press, such as  INDUSTRY 609 New Masses. I think I am aware of several contributions you made to that publication after the time of your break.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, sir, I suppose you would call them writings. I would hardly dignify them as such. They weren't articles or anything. But on two specific occasions I was asked specifically by the New Masses to make some comment on a particular event. I believe the first time was when Germany invaded Russia. They said that they were canvassing opinion of various people, various points of view. I did send them a statement in which I believe I said that in a sense by force-I can't remember the actual wording of it by now, but my feeling was that by German force in the invasion the collective security policies which England and France at first and then Russia had ducked out on finally had come to pass. I don't remember the actual wording of it, but I do remember sending it to them. The other one was about a year later, some sort of controversy between a Republican Congressman, I think it was, and Mrs. Roosevelt over the appointment of Melvyn Douglas. I believe the particular objection had been that Melvyn Douglas had changed his name and was not using his own name, in other words, and that therefore this was not quite a proper thing. This was used as a reason for feeling he shouldn't have this office. It was some sort of civilian office. I was queried directly by them, and I answered them in a short statement, saying that I felt, especially in the film business, that many people changed their names, that it was almost a common practice. That Robert Taylor had changed his name, that Cary Grant had changed his name, and so forth, and that I didn't feel that the chang- ing of a name was really a reason for criticizing any man as long as he acted honestly, and so forth.' I believe that Senator Downey also made some comment on the same thing at that time. I didn't feel in either case that I was endorsing the New Masses as a magazine.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information indi- cating that you either joined or continued your affiliations with several organizations which have been referred to generally as Communist-front organizations. Is that correct ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe I have joined-in most cases not joined but lent my name to specific issues in which these organizations were canvassing. I remember lending my name to a kind of circular letter put out by the Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions in favor of the candidacy of Henry Wallace. At that particular time I was in favor of Henry Wallace.
Mr. VELDE. Do you remember the approximate date of that, Mr. Schulberg ?
Mr. SCHULM RG. It must have been sometime, I guess, just before; it must have been sometime early in the campaign.
Mr. VELDE. 1948 ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. 1948. At that time I felt I was doing this as an independent liberal. I wasn't unaware of the ways that the Communists had used Mr. Wallace. As the campaign went on, I became increasingly sure that this was being done. I spoke about it to people, not that I didn't feel that Mr. Wallace was an honorable and also an independent man, and a pretty good American. - Finally after the campaign, however, I did write to Mr. Wallace and tell him that I thought that he might have had some kind of chance to win some sup81595-51-pt. 3-6 610 INDUSTRY port from the American people if he hadn't lent himself completely to the line of the Communist Party, which seemed to increase as the campaign went on. Since we are on this particular subject, at the time of the final break between Mr. Wallace and the Progressive Party I think over the issue of Korea when he couldn't quite convince himself that the South Koreans had invaded the North Koreans, I wrote the Progressive Party that I wasn't sure if I was still on their rolls as I had told them that I wanted to have no further part after the campaign was over, but if I was I wanted to have my name removed and I have this letter with me if you wish to hear it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I ask that it be introduced in the record, Mr. Chairman. Let's refer, first of all, to your letter addressed to Mr. Wallace. Do you know the date of that letter and do you have it?
Mr. SCHULBERG. NO, sir; I don't, but they were just about the same time. This letter to the Progressive Party is dated October 1, 1950, and I believe that the other was some time before that, approximately the same time.
Mr. TAVENN ER. I will offer the letter in evidence and have it marked Schulberg Exhibit No. 6.
Mr. WA.LTE. That will be received. (The document referred to, marked "Schulberg Exhibit No. 6," is filed herewith.) 1
Mr. WALTER. Read any part that you feel is relevant.
Mr. SCHULBERG (reading) : Since I have not been active in Progressive or any other political circles since the 1948 campaign, I do not know whether my name is still carried on the rolls of the Progressive Party. But if it is, I must ask that it be removed for I find that my own political convictions are no longer adequately represented by the policies of your party. My feelings in this matter reached a crisis in the Wallace controversy of some months back. It seemed to me that Henry Wallace was right in pointing out that aggression of any kind, in these precarious days, is a more immediate threat to world peace than the potential use of the atom bomb. The Progressive Party stand struck me as ambiguous and on the basic issue of aggression suspiciously skittish. Therefore, while continuing to believe in the constitutional right of all minority parties to remain free from political persecution, I myself can no longer lend my name or my activities to the Progressive Party. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you were associated with certain activities of the Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions, such as the signing of a letter requesting the abolition of the Committee on Un-American Activities. I am not asking you about your views as to this committee, but I would like to know the manner in which your endorsement of the letter or your joining in the letter was secured and what you know about the formation of the plan to abolish this committee.
Mr. SCHILBERG. I will gladly do so and give you any of my views that you would care to hear. This came to me in the form of a letter, as all of these things would that I would sign. Incidentally, letters like this do pour in every day, and I suppose you sign 1 for 10 that you either say "No" or toss in the wastebasket. This one I did.sign, and I remember doing so. I think it was late in 1948, although the date might have been 1949. As far as I recall, it simply came to my desk in the general mail and I signed it. If you are interested in 1 Retained in the files of the committee.  611 knowing why I did feel that way, why I should sign it, I will be glad to tell you.
Mr. TAVENNER. We will be glad to hear aynthing you have to say about it.
Mr. ScHULBERG. Unless you are extremely interested-I did sign it, I remember signing it, and I will tell you why if you wish.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is satisfactory as far as I am concerned. 
Mr. WALTER. NO; it isn't satisfactory.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I will be glad to, sir. Please state your reason. When you see a name on a letter or on any petition, it is really a question of yes or no. I feel that these things are much like a vote. When you vote, you vote "yes" or "no." I feel that you must sometimes say you are 55 or 60 percent in favor or 40 or 45 percent against, and you vote "yes," and the 40 or 45 percent doesn't show. I felt somewhat that way that day. I felt that there was to my mind a definite concern that had nothing to do with my love for the Communist Party and the fact that people should be called in and their political views should be inquired into. I honestly felt that there was a great danger in that. I didn't feel it was 100 to nothing. I felt there was also on the other side information, say, about the Communist Party and the Communist operation that could be of no value to the American people. I tried to decide which is the greater danger. To me it was like a balance, like this. That was my reason in principle. I also had a kind of personal reason which I have never told anybody to this moment anywhere, but if you are curious I will also tell you that.
Mr. WALTER. Please do. 
Mr. SCHULBERG. In 1940 this committee under a different leadership came to Hollywood at just about the time I believe I had broken with the Communist Party. I believe it was under the chairmanship then of Martin Dies. On the day he arrived an announcement was made in the paper that there were six leading Communists in Hollywood, I think it was, and I was named as one of the six. The statement also said that anybody who didn't feel that he was being treated quite fairly or justly or had anything to say about this was invited to come down to the committee room, which was at the Hotel Biltmore, and present himself. I was a good deal younger then. I didn't feel like asking anybody's advice. I just hopped in the car and drove down to the Hotel Biltmore. I telephoned upstairs to the investigator, whose name I remember, but it is not necessary to mention I suppose any longer. I told him, "My name is Budd Schulberg. I am downstairs. I saw the note in the paper. I feel that there is something that isn't quite just about making an announcement in the paper about people before they have had a chance to come down and at least talk with you." I said, "I can't prove it, but I just have a strong hunch that that list is a faulty list."
Mr. WALTER. At that time you were no longer a member of the Communist Party; is that the fact? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. That is right, sir. I was told, "Well, we are very busy now, but call back in half an hour or so and we will see." I did. I called back in half an hour. I remember the date very well. I don't know why these things end up with my going to a bai, but I went to a bar in Hotel Biltmore and listened to a speech by Wendell Willkie. 612 COMMiUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY In about 35 or 40 minutes I called back again and I was told, "We can't see you again, but call back in another half hour." At 5 o'clock at the end of the day I called again and I was told, "We are going to San Francisco on the next train. We have to leave and we are sorry we can't see you." Frankly, that didn't give me the most favorable impression of what the treatment was. Maybe it was wrong. Maybe I should have been more reasonable later. But, as I say, it was first on one side a matter of principle, and on the other side a sense of personal pique and a sense that I hadn't been treated fairly that induced me to sign tliat letter in 1949.
Mr. WALTER. If your expressed views at that time had been fol- lowed, then there wouldn't be in existence today a vehicle to give to the American people and to the world the very valuable information you have given concerning the insidious attempts that are made to control the thought and writing.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Thank you, sir. 
Mr. WALTER. As a matter of fact, Mr. Schulberg, wasn't most of this agitation to eliminate this committee started by Communist groups that realized that sooner or later this committee would expose some of their machinations ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Undoubtedly Communists would join for that reason; yes. I do think that others joined for other reasons. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you in 1941 become a sponsor of the American Peace Mobilization ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Not to my knowledge, sir. That seems to conflict with what I was doing and saying at that time. I remember very distinctly lending both my name and my presence to, I believe it was, the William Allen White Committee to Defend the Allies. I know I talked to innumerable people about the fact that I did not believe in this kind of neutrality; that I didn't think that would be any kind of peace that I find it very hard to believe that I would sponsor such a meeting. Could I ask, sir, is there any index of that, a general index that would carry my name as being a member of that, not as a sponsor of that meeting but as a member of that organization ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of a flyer under date of April 5, 1941, of the American People's Meeting held at Randalls Island, N. Y., and I notice at'the bottom of the page that your name is used as a sponsor of the American Peace Mobilization. Will you examine it, please [handed to the witness]. Your name appears at the bottom of the second page. 
Mr. RHETTS. May I inquire, Mr. Tavenner, whether you have the-is this all there is to this document, or is this merely an excerpt from it ?
Mr. TAVENNER. That is an excerpt from the document.
Mr. RHETTS. I wonder if you have the
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you now one of the original pamphlets [handing pamphlet to the witness].
Mr. RHETTS. Thank you.
Mr. SCHULBERG (after examining the document). I don't remember this meeting, and also I don't remember lending my name to it. I think I was out of the country at the time. I feel sure I was opposed  INDUSTRY 613 to the policies that this represented. All I can say is that I strongly doubt that I authorized this. Anything that has been brought up I would be glad to admit, no matter how objectionable it might seem, if I am sure I did it.
Mr. WALTER. This is the first knowledge you have of this?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have never seen this before I came down here, sir.
Mr. RHETs. May I say, Mr. Chairman, that I note that this photo- static excerpt lists Mr. Schulberg's name on one page, which would indicate he is one of nine sponsors, a rather small group. I note from the original that that is simply one of a large number of pages here which finally run over on to the back page. There seem to be well over a couple of hundred names listed here as including sponsors, for whatever value that may be.
Mr. SCHULBERG. That particular mention seems to me absolutely inconsistent with my position at the time. I remember quite well- I think it was just about then or shortly before-attending and buy- ing tables for the committee to aid the Allies. I remember signing petitions to aid the Allies and talking with many people about it. It also happens to be almost exactly the date of the attack of the Communist meeting on me and my book. This meeting at Randalls Island was April 5, 1941. As I say, I have no memory of that meeting. I have no memory of anybody having asked me to do that. This particular thing I feel unauthorized and it seems inconsistent with everything I was doing and saying there.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Schulberg, prior to June 22, 1941, were you aware of the nature of the organization, American Peace Mobilization ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have some recollection, sir, on the west coast, of saying that I did not wish to join that organization. 
Mr. VELDE. Were you also aware that after the attack by Hitler on Russia the name of that organization was changed to American People's Mobilization ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. familiar. No, sir; I wasn't aware of that, but it sounds 
Mr. VELDE. What were you aware of about the American Peace Mobilization, the one prior to June 22, 1941? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was aware that the American Peace Mobiliza- tion was isolationist and doing everything it could to keep us from aiding the Allies against the Nazis, and I felt that in that way it was actually aiding the Nazis.
Mr. VELDE. YOU were opposed to their position regarding the peace pact between Russia and Germany at the time, as I understand it. 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I was. Also this meeting seems to have taken place almost exactly the time, as I say, that my first book was published, and at a time when I was, to the best of my knowledge, in Mexico. I doubt very, very strongly that I lent my name to this particular organization at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, excuse me. Were you going to say anything else ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No. It just seems that I can't conceive of having done that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, your name appears as one of the signers of a brief amicus curiae which was filed in the Supreme Court of the United States in the case against John Howard Lawson and 614 INDUSTRY also in the case against Dalton Trumbo. You recall that, I suppose?
Mr. SCHULRERG. I do, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the circumstances under which your signature was obtained to that brief ? MIr. SCHTLBERG. It was sent to me in the mail at my farm; I believe from the office of the principal signer. I think it was Max Radin. I think it was his office. I am not sure. I wouldn't want to say whose office, but it came there. I read it I suppose not too carefully. I am afraid my ability to read any kind of brief-I have been told by some lawyers that this was not a very good one legally, but I did sign it. I believe I signed it for somewhat the same reasons as I signed the others, although in this case I had an additional feeling at the time that possibly this was something that should be tested in the courts, and once it was that also affected my attitude that this was a law and that we should abide by it.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there anything further you desire to say in re- gard to the subject of our inquiry?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Just one or two brief things. I do feel the ques- tioning has been very fair and that possibly there isn't time always in gathering material to gather it on all sides. In other words, every one of these things that you mentioned, except for one of these things that you have mentioned, except for one which I don't think I did, of course I did and believed in for some reason at the time. I honestly feel that certain other activities that people do take part in should also be part of these files so that you are able to get a clear and balanced picture.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me suggest in that connection, if you have any information of a documentary character which you desire to be considered along with your testimony here, that you send it to us.
Mr. RHETTS. All right.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I will. 
Mr. TAVENNER. If there is anything further, proceed.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Anything further?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, anything further you desire to say. I don't know whether that completed what you were about to say or not.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; it did.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle? 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Schulberg, you stated that you withdrew from the group against the urging of Mr. Lawrence, I think. Did any members of the group themselves other than he try to get you to stay in the Communist group? In other words, was it a one-man affair so far as trying to keep you in, or did other members come to you and try to urge you to stay in with them ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. It wasn't Lawrence, sir. It wasn't one man. It was rather a somewhat extended process. It was first Mr. Collins. It was secondly the group that Mr. Collins represented. It was then John Howard Lawson, and it was finally V. J. Jerome. This covered some period of time.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, I am to understand, then, that the group itself actively, other than just its leaders, the membership of the group itself, 7 or 10 or a dozen, you were aware of the fact that the group did not want you to retire from it; is that correct?  INDUSTRY 615 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe that some thought that I should be argued back in and some thought that I should be kicked out.
Mr. DOYLE. What I am trying to get at, Mr. Schulberg, is this: As you look back in retrospect, was it the conviction of the rank and file of the group that their Communist activities were good'and important for them, or was it just the leadership of the group, two or three ? In other words, was the group itself imbued with the communistic principles to the extent that they tried to get you to stick by them ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Sir, I feel they were or they would also have left the group in this way. I might add that in a sense I feel it is a hopeful sign. Sometimes you think of a Communist group as being very rigid, once you get into it you can never get out of it. I think there is a certain fear of that. I think it is interesting to find ways to help people to get out of it. People can and do get out of it all the time. I feel one of the hopeful things is that there are so many people who have come into the thinking that it is something idealistic, leave it for the same reason. Once they leave it, there are, of course, efforts to bring them back, but they can get out and can stay out. I do think that it is interesting in this investigation, lest people think, which I am sure you wouldn t want the American people to believe, either, that Hollywood is just teeming with Communists. Of course as some people have been able to tell you better than I, who have been in it in the forties, they can reach positions of real power. Yet the turn-over I feel is constant, and people are getting out of it all the time. Sometimes I honestly expect to see a meeting in the Gilmore Stadium in Hollywood of all the ex-Communists. It can be done, in other words, it can be done.
Mr. DOYLE. You mentioned the word "fear." Do I understand that there is anything done directly or indirectly in these young Communist groups such as you were in to instill in the members a fear of something happening to them if they withdraw, or is there fear of some discipline that might harm them, that it would be bad for them if they withdrew from the Communist group? which you used the term "fear"? Is that the sense in 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Not exactly, sir; no. I have heard of that, and I think in groups which are really revolutionary groups, which these at that time really didn't consider themselves, there obviously was some fear of physical violence. In my case I can't say that that was so. There are two kinds of fears, I think. Once before the step is taken you don't know quite how to make it. I know that is true. You sit there for a long time wanting to get out and you can't find the words to say it. One day you are sitting there-many people seem to have the same fears; You go on maybe for a year in which you think about how to get out and not really agreeing with it, but still in it. One day you say what am I doing here, I am not a Communist and finally you go. I happened to read an interesting book the other day by the editor of the British Daily Worker. It is called I Believed. He said for 2 years he edited the Daily Worker of England and was one of the top men in the Communist Party of England and at the same time he was taking instructions, planning to join the Catholic Church. Every day in a sense he was doing both. This might seem the behavior of a very dishonest man, of a hypocrite, but I don't think it really was in that case. I think sometimes these things break slowly. That is all. 616 
Mr. DOYLE. Did I understand you just now to say "I can think of some revolutionary groups"?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have read about revolutionary groups.
Mr. DOYLE. I see. You have read about them?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. You are not personally acquainted with any of them?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I can't say that I am. I honestly cannot. 
Mr. DOYLE. I misunderstood the words you used.
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. One more question. Nan I just assume that you haven't had opportunity to read Public Law 601, the part of it under which this committee operates, which refers to the Committee on Un-American Activities. I wish just to read to you three or four lines and call your attention to the last line and ask you if you have anything you can suggest to us that would be helpful. It provides that this com- mittee shall investigate "the extent, character, and objects of unAmerican propaganda activities in the United States," and "the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda * * *." Let me call your attention to this line expresslythat is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by the Constitution, and * * * all other questions in relation thereto that Would aid Congress in any necessary remedial legislation. I am sure that I as a member of the committee would not want to lose the opportunity to give you every opportunity to give us any suggestion you might have, if you have any, any processes or any action, any attitude that we should take with reference to any possible remedial legislation to meet the present subversive misconduct of people.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Like any other citizen these days I do think a good deal about that. I feel there is no doubt that it has been brought out in the last few years that there has been a very serious phase of the Communist Party work which is devoted to espionage and which is really not in the interest of the American people. I think that the large percentage of the people who join the Communist Party do so without honestly knowing that, that there are people in it today who don't know that, who in some way are deeply misguided. I feel that somehow this is going to help peace on earth and good will to men. These people I feel definitely are being used. The problem to me falls into two parts. One is to check in every way the manipulators and conspirators of this, who do use these other people who are, I would call, innocents. I think personally the best way to do that is to tighten up in every way the laws on espionage and sabotage, which probably is being done. If they aren't airtight, they should be improved. On the subject of actually outlawing the Communist Party, my mind itself is not made up. I think there are some reasons for that. As long as some line can be drawn between simply political action and all this other business that goes on. I feel if the thing is outlawed it will probably spring up under some other name. That part is the problem which begins to come more in my province frankly than the other, which is how do you get people not to join these other groups,  617 whichever they are, that come out under this name. I feel that that is a question of finding an American organization, American activities which will give American people the ability that they have always had to protest, to talk up for the underdog, to have humanitarian impulses and so forth without falling into the hands of these people who use these causes, and the Civil Eights Congress I am convinced is an example of that. Those are good causes often. Those are people often who really are suffering some injustice and they attract people who don't like injustice and they fall into the hands of the Communists. I simply hope that on one side everything can be done to check sabotage and to cut off and cut out this conspiratorial side, and on the other that these democratic efforts be really taken away from the Communists, that people do them themselves and they will find that they won't need communism because they can still talk and act on their own.
Mr. FRAZIER. Mr. Schulberg, did I understand you to say you attended Dartmouth College ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I did. 
Mr. FRAZIER. What year did you graduate if you did graduate?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was graduated, sir, in 1936.
Mr. FRAZIER. Then did you go with the TVA ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Never, sir. 
Mr. FRAIER. You never did?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Never did. I don't know what they were doing.
Mr. FRAZIER. I thought you went from Dartmouth down there.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I didn't; no, sir. I never had anything to do with it ever.
Mr. JACKSON. That was Mr. Remington; was it not?
Mr. FRAZIER. That is all.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Velde? 
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Schulberg, have you now given us all the names of the people who were associated with you in the study group which you mentioned, the Marxist study group prior to your entrance into the Young Communist Party or the Young Communist League ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe so, sir. I have given you all the names of those who passed on into the Communist Party; yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. You feel that you do recall all those who were associated with you in that study group ? If you should recall at a later date the names of others, would you give this committee or our investigators their names?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. I would say all except certain things which I have discussed fully with your investigators.
Mr. VELDE. Have you also given us all the names of the members of the YCL that were in your particular group?
Mr. SCHULBERG. TO the best of my memory, I have.
Mr. VELDE. At any time during that time did you carry a Communist Party membership card ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have wondered about that. I don't remember having one. I think it is possible, but for some reason I don't remember having one. Whether they didn't have them in those days I am not sure, but I just don't remember having a Communist Party card. However, I might have. 618 
Mr. VELDE. Do you recall what the amount of the dues was that you paid to the Communist Party, the Young Communist League?
Mr. SCHULBERG. In the study group I don't think there were any. I believe there might have been just a pittance for the books, the pamphlets, or something. It was very small. In the Young Communist League the dues were very, very minimum because I don't think anybody was making very much money. In this later stage there was a percentage of the dues. If I had been asked I would have had no memory of it. I understand Mr. Collins-I think when I left California he was the treasurer, so I feel I know nothing aboutsaid it was 4 percent.
Mr. VELDE. That was in the nature of a special assessment ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That struck me as being high. I thought maybe in our time it was lower, 2 percent or something like that. Possibly it was raised at some later date. I do remember that there was a percentage of your income taken as dues. It seems to me it was 1 or 2 then.
Mr. VELDE. Would you mind telling the committee what your particular income was at that time?
Mr. SCHULBERG. It would be somewhat difficult for me to figure it out because I had jobs at short periods. When I worked at that time as a screen writer I was paid $350 a week. However, in 1938 1 wrote the Screen Writers' Guild that I was going to devote the majority of my time to magazine writing, and from that time on it was catch-ascatch-can depending upon the stories I was able to sell. So I don't remember exactly what my income was, but I think around that time I was selling possibly one magazine short story a month.
Mr. VELDE. Can you give us an approximation of the amount that you paid in special assessment, just a general figure? I realize it is difficult for you to remember exactly.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Sir, I honestly don't think I could. I don't remember the special assessment apart from the dues or anything. I just remember that we paid some. I do remember that we paid some percentage of our dues. I thought that is what you meant by the special assessment. I am not quite clear.
Mr. VELDE. I am not quite clear, either, on what you mean. I believe Mr. Collins or someone testified here that the Communist Party assessed 4 percent of your income, of your weekly or monthly income, as a special assessment, other than the regular party dues which went into the Communist Party fund, and on some occasion it was collected by the national committee of the Communist Party directly. That is what I am referring to. Did you make any such payments of special assessments on your income?
Mr. SCHULBERG. The payment I remember making is more like the one that you described than a regular dues. In other words, I don't remember paying two different kinds, dues and a special assessment: I do rememberMr. VELDE. I believe, if I am not mistaken-and maybe the investigators or Mr. Nixon knows about this-it seems to me that the YCL charged only very nominal dues, maybe 25 cents a month or something like that. You refer to a larger payment than that, do you not?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. So it more than likely was a special assessment on your income.  INDUSTRY 619 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes. That probably came when the young Communist League evolved into the Communist Party.
Mr. VELDE. I see. You have no independent recollection of any amounts that you paid in by check or by cash or whom you paid it to?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I paid them by cash, and I believe around 1938 into early 1939 I do believe Mr. Collins was the treasurer then. It seems to me I remember giving him certain cash payments, but I don't remember how large.
Mr. VELDE. Since you left the party and made a complete break with the Communist Party itself, you testified that you were associated with a few what are now known as Communist-front groups. Have you given the committee all of the Communist-front groups with which you are associated since your break with the Communist Party
Mr. SCHULBERG. As far as I know, I have, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Are you connected in any way with the Committee to Defend Harry Bridges? Did you have anything to do with that committee?
Mr. SCHULBERG. In 1940 there was some kind of open letter, I believe to Attorney General Biddle, I think in the latter part of 1942, signed by some 600 people.
Mr. VELDE. Were you a signer of that letter ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was one of the signers of that letter which asked him at that time not to deport -HarryBridges; yes, sir. I recall no funds being contributed. In fact, in all these cases that I have mentioned I lent my name I agreed at that particular time with the specific issue if not with the organization, and I never attended any of these meetings. As far as I know, I gave no funds.
Mr. VELDE. Were you associated with a committee known as the American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I have been. I believe that was mentioned.
Mr. VELDE. I am sorry. There is no other front group or Communist-controlled group that you can think of at the present time with which you have been associated since your break with the Communist Party ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. There may be others that I have signed calls for. I tried my best to remember the ones that I was sure of, yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Thank you kindly, Mr. Schulberg, for your cooperation with this committee. I think you have given a lot of valuable information which we have not heretofore had.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Thank you very much, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSO1N. Mr. Schulberg, I join heartily in the sentiments ex- pressed by Mr. Velde. I feel that you have made a substantial contribution to the knowledge of the committee as to the physical operators of the Communist Party. I have several questions I should like to ask. You testified this morning regarding an organization of writers in the Soviet Union which more or less controlled the output of writers, or more control rather than less of the writers of the Soviet Union. 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. You could not recall the name of the organization at that time. Was it by any chance the International Union of Revolutionary Writers? 620 
Mr. SCHULBERG. INDUSTRY That is correct. 
Mr. JACKSON. That is the name of it ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. That is the name of the organization.
Mr. JACKSON. Was that an organization that had an American offshoot called the League of American Writers, do you know ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That I did not know.
Mr. JACKSON. You were never associated with any organization by that name? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was associated with the League of American Writers from 1937 to I believe 1939. SMr. JACKSON. Was that organization an organization with definite Communist influence ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. In 1939, at that time I didn't think that it was dominated by Communists. I imagine I would think so today, but I didn't think so then.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you done any movie scripts? SCIULBERG. I have done a few; yes, sir. JACKSON. What were they? SCHULBERG. None that I am very proud to talk about. 
Mr. JACKSON. That is true of some of the movies I have seen, but would you mind mentioning the names of these scripts that you did that were made into pictures?
Mr. SCHULBERG. One was called Winter Carnival. Another was called City Without Men. Another one was-not that I wrote a script for it, but just wrote a story from which the film was made, called Week End for Three. I can't remember any others.
Mr. JACKSON. Who made those pictures respectively?
Mr. SCHULBERG. One was made by Walter Wanger, one by Columbia Pictures, and one by RKO.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the date, the approximate date?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I will have to try to figure that out, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Just generally, within a year or two. 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Oh, I would say from '38 to '40. I believe they were all pretty much in that period.
Mr. JACKSON. Was there any indication at any time that your association in the Communist Party was an assistance to you in selling scripts in Hollywood ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. NO, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. In association with John Howard Lawson and any others within the industry ?
Mr. SCHILBERG. I honestly can't say, sir, that I ever had much assistance from that source.
Mr. JACKSON. You at no time were referred by any member of the group to any specific agent, or was it suggested that any specific person in the studio might be of assistance to you ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. NO, sir; it really wasn't. My employment was quite brief at that time, as I say. In 1939 I worked a few months, at which time I wrote a letter to the Guild saying I was leaving. In 1939 I worked for 3 or 4 months, and then went to Vermont. So honestly my screen work has been limited to a short time. During that time I don't remember anybody from that source saying that they would help me to get any better job or any assignments, possibly because I wasn't very interested, either, in getting them.
Mr. JACKSON. Who was your agent in Hollywood?  INtDUSTRY 621 * 
Mr. SCHULBERG. The Myron-Selznick Agency.
Mr. JACKSON. Who handled your account in the agency, do you know?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I do know that, of course.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you mind, and I should say this has no neces- sary connotation.
Mr. SCHULBERG. My only hesitation-at times through no fault of your own, sir, people read things in papers and say, "I saw your name in the paper. You must be in some kind of trouble." That was my only hesitation.
Mr. JACKSON. I think with that preface it will be all right.
Mr. SCHULBERG. My agent at that time was Collier Young, who at no time was ever associated with the Communist Party in any way.
Mr. JACKSON. During the time that you were associated with the youth group or the Young Communist League, did you know of any activity on the campus of the University of California at Los Angeles? You are familiar with the university. You know where it is.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Of course.
Mr. JACKSON. You knew of no activities and had no members who came from the campus ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. NO, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Generally, in summation, Mr. Schulberg, your testi- mony has gone directly to the point that there were very definite efforts made by the Communist Party, by individuals within the Communist Party, to direct your writing efforts. In that case they were unsuccessful in that you broke with the party. Further than that, that there were other efforts made in other cases by the Communist Party or by individuals in the Communist Party which achieved a greater measure of success than in your own case. I think that is the thing we are trying to establish beyond any doubt. I am glad that you mentioned the fact that Hollywood is not teeming with Communists. I have a personal interest in that. I see a great many of my constituents sitting right where you are sitting, and I hope if that Gilmore thing ever develops you will move it over to Wrigley Field. Would you suggest in light of your own experience, both as a mem- ber of the Communist Party and also as one who has appeared before this committee, that others might be well advised who have sincerely broken with the party and want to make a clean breast of it to come before this committee as you have ? Would that be your advice ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Sir, it would be my own personal advice. add one suggestion. May I 
Mr. JAoKSON. Please do.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I feel that there are some people who might come forward more readily. I don't know who they are. But just judging some of the experiences I have read about, I think that there is a fear, the fear that I talked about before, the fear of retribution by society, the fear that this is something that you might never be able to live down. I think that since many of these people obviously in a sense are in nowise really subversive, they got into something they really didn't understand and once they are out, they should help in every way. Industries should not be encouraged to crack down on them. I think the people in Hollywood still are frightened about hiring some of 622 S INDUSTRY these people. I have less fear about it, quite frankly, because I am more self-employed. I wouldn't mind working in Hollywood again some time. If I write a book and they want to make it, I have no objection and I would be rather shocked if they did make it because I have appeared here. However, I feel I will get by if they did do that. I think everything must be done to help those particular people. I did read a headline last week which said something like, "Wait and see attitude on ex-Reds," I think it said. I think it is that sort of thing, this reluctance or hesitation which naturally will make people think twice, because if you say, "Come up and make a full disclosure," and then they are hurt for it, they are going to be more reluctant. So I hope you will be able to do everything that you can to help those people.
Mr. JACKSON. You have expressed yourself so far as those people are concerned who voluntarily come forward or who come forward under subpena and disclose the nature of their activities in the party. What is your feeling with respect to those who come forward and refuse to cooperate with the committee ? Do you think that that same amnesty should be extended to them by industry or by the American people at the box office ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Frankly I haven't quite decided that problem my- self. I don't feel it is the same as the other. I do feel there is some difference, but I haven't quite made up my own mind. I can, under- stand certain hesitance on the part of the industry and the American people. It is something I would like to think more about.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you mind giving the committee your personal reaction upon reading that such and such an individual has come forward or a number of individuals have come forward and refused to testify and have taken refuge behind the first or fifth amendments? Several of the witnesses, notably Mr. Dmytryk, said that they draw the conclusion that they are not sincerely devoted to the Constitution but are rather taking that refuge because it is either take that or possibly conceivably be cited. What is your feeling? What reaction do you obtain when you read of noncooperative witnesses taking their undoubted right to retire under the umbrella of the Constitution? What is your reaction ? What is yourfeeling?
Mr. SCHULBERG. My reaction is somewhat along the line of Mr. Dmytryk. I would say that the majority of those were not completely sincere. However, I might entertain the thought that in a case here and there are people who without being Communists might possibly for some matter of principle do that.
Mr. JACKSON. You mean out of deep conviction ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Out of some deep conviction.
Mr. JACKSON. Thought control, and so forth ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I do think it is possible.
Mr. JACKSON. I assume you have read of those who have deep con- victions which do not extend to the Silver Shirts or the Ku Klux Klan, but who have very deep conviction when questioned on the Communist Party.
Mr. SCHULBERG. If I had the same conviction, obviously, I wouldn't have broken with the party. 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you believe that a member of the Communist Party can at the same time be dedicated to a free America as we understand it and to the dignity of the individual?  623 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Not if he knows the whole story of what commu- nism and the Communist Party is. I think there are innocents in there that might fit that category; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. You mean at the present time there are Communists who could be Communists and at the same time loyal Americans ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I think there might be some who are not presently in the process of getting out who might become loyal Americans; I do, yes; although I wouldn't make a strong point of that. It is something I haven't really thought through. I would think by this time every member would see exactly how it was run and who it was run for. Y would think that.
Mr. JACKSON. You have terminated, of course, your association with the various fronts to which you lent your name on occasion or do you still retain membership in any of them-not membership, but do you still attend any of the meetings of those groups ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have never attended any of the meetings, ever. I don't think I ever attended any of the meetings of any of these organizations that have been named. I don't think one. I don't believe I am a member of any of them now.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, may I ask one more question just in conclusion? Knowing the Communist Party line, what would your reaction be to a set of principles which I will enumerate here? Washington is a very unhealthy place. These are from minutes. The Un-American Committee is a modern inquisition. The committee members are self-centered tyrants. Parks, Hayden, and Collins are mentally illMr. VELDE. I think there is something added to that one line which modesty forbids your reading.
Mr. JACKSON. It saysThe committee members are self-centered tyrants, especially a man named Jackson. Pressure of people for peace is greatly retarding the war. * * * We demand immediate peace negotiations with People's China. * * * We must demand immediate withdrawal of troops from all nations. * * * We must demand immediate recognition of People's China in the United Nations. * * * Our goal is to work for peace. * * * We have never deviated from the aim of working forces. * * * The role of the Dance Division is to entertain labor and minority groups. * * * The present task is to cooperate with the Marine Cooks and Stewards in the fund-raising campaigns. * * * Our duty is to enlighten people who read the Washington investigations and liken the investigations to the inquisition. * * * The newspapers all slant to testimony of the witnesses, and people are losing their sense of direction. * * * We must assume the leadership. Does that strike a familiar chord ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That does; yes. (Representative James B. Frazier, Jr., left hearing room.)
Mr. JACKSON. What is the song? What is the music? 
Mr. SCI-IULBERG. That sounds like a very familiar line.
Mr. JACKSON. The Communist Party line.
Mr. SCHULBERG. It sounds like the Communist line.
Mr. JACKSON. This is a report of the membership committee of the Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions in Los Angeles, Stanley Hall, 1057 North Stanley Avenue, approximate attendance 250, on April 12, 1951, and I merely insert it in the record so people who attended and others may know the words and the music. 624 INDUSTRY Thank you again for your testimony.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Schulberg, this committee is indebted to you for making one of the most constructive statements that I have heard since I have been a member of this committee. It can only come through the lips of people who have had the experiences that you have had, the information that the American people should have, so as to bring home to everybody in every community of America an awareness of the menace of this world-wide conspiracy, and in our efforts to enlighten our people you have made a very fine contribution. We thank you. " Mr. SCHULBERG. Thank you, sir. 
Mr. WALTER. The committee will stand adjourned, to meet at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. (Whereupon, at 4:30 p. m., the hearing recessed until 10 a. m. the following day.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 3 THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. 0. PUBLIC HEARING A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10:20 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. Francis E. Walter presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Francis E. Walter and Harold T. Velde. Staff members present: Frank E. Tavenner Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; William A. Wheeler, investigator; John W. Carrington, clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will come to order. Let the record show that a subcommittee consisting of Messrs. Velde and Walter has been designated by the chairman to conduct the hearing this morning. Who is your witness this morning?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Frank Tuttle.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Tuttle, will you stand, please. Do you swear the testimony you will give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ? 
Mr. SOHULBERG. My name is Budd Wilson Schulberg.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I am. 581 582 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. RH rrs. Mr. Gerard D. Reilly and Mr. Charles Edward Rhetts. of the firm of Reilly, Rhetts & Ruckelshaus.
Mr. WOOD. Local address, please?
Mr. RHETrr. Tower Building, Washington, D. C., sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. .Schulberg?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was born March 27, 1914, in the city of New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you live ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I now live in New Hope, Pa.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I am a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee briefly your educational training?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I went through the public-school system of the city of Los Angeles, graduated from Los Angeles High School, went to. Deerfield Academy, and to Dartmouth College.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you at Dartmouth College?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was graduated in June of 1936.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you take additional educational training after- that, or not? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir, I didn't. I received no other degrees except my B. A.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Schulberg, have you ever served in the Armed Forces of the United States?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. What branch of the military service ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Naval Reserve. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you become active in the United'StatesNavy?
Mr. SCHULBERG. March 10, 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you enlist?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I enlisted.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an officer?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I became a lieutenant in the Navy;
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you serve in the United States Navy ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Until March 17, 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any foreign service ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I did. I received one battle star in the. European theater of operations. I received commendation from the War Department for directing a security Nazi film to be used as evidence in the Nuremberg trial of major war criminals. I also received a commendation from Secretary Forrestal.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you discharged from the United States: Navy?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I was released to inactive status on March 17, 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU still retain your commission in the United" States Naval Reserve?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you enter upon your profession ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. It is a difficult question to answer, sir.' I -havebeen writing since about the age of 11 or 12, I would say.  INDUSTRY 583 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you outline to the committee what your pro- fessional experience has been since you graduated from Dartmouth in 1936?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I will try to do it, sir as briefly as I can. In the summer of 1936 1 returned to Hollywood, Calif. During that summer I wrote short stories. In the fall I went to work at a film studio called the Selznick International, as a reader, and from that time to, I would say, 1939, on and off, I was what is known as a junior writer for the screen, although my main interest was in shortstory writing and fiction. And from 1936 until the present I have been publishing almost constantly in international magazines, as well as writing some novels.
Mr. TAVENNER. What novels have you written?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have written three, sir. The titles of them are: "What Makes Sammy Run?", "The Harder They Fall," and "The Disenchanted." 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write them in the order in which you named them?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, there has been testimony before the committee by Mr. Richard Collins, who appeared here on April 12, 1951, that you had been a member of the Communist Party in Hollywood in the late thirties, and that he had understood that you had withdrawn from the Communist Party as the result of a difficulty over the book, What Makes Sammy Run ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I guess some others run too, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And shortly after that testimony, in fact, on April 14, this telegram was received by the chairman of this committee: I have noted the public statement of your committee inviting those named in recent testimony to appear before your committee. My recollection of my Communist affiliation is that it was approximately from 1937 to 1940. My opposition to Communists and Soviet dictatorship is a matter of record. I will cooperate with you in any way I can. BUDD SCHULBERG, New Hope, Pa. Now, as a result of the receipt of that telegram, you were asked- to appear at a time that the committee could hear you.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you at any time voluntarily made known to an investigative agency of the Federal Government, prior to the testimony of Richard Collins, that you had been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I had. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to refer back for a moment to your educational training. You state that you completed your college course at Dartmouth in 1936. While at Dartmouth, did you become acquainted with William Remington ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe when I was a senior at Dartmouth College that he was a junior-no; I am sorry. I mean a freshman; and that when I was the editor of the college newspaper that he was one of the heelers, freshman heelers, for the paper. A heeler is someone bucking for a job on a newspaper. I did meet him at that time; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You had left Dartmouth College prior to his return to that institution after having been with the TVA in Tennessee? 584  
Mr. SCHULBERG. I am not sure of the dates of his return to college. I am more sure of mine. I left Dartmouth College in June 1936, and in May 1939 I didn't return to the college, but there is a town very close by where I took up residence while I was writing my first book.
Mr. TAVENNER..The testimony of Mr. Remington before this committee was that he returned to Dartmouth in September 1937. That would have been after you had left the institution ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; it would; I would say about a year and 2 or 3 months after I had left the institution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you attended Dartmouth College?
Mr. SCHULBERG. NO, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, there has been testimony before this committee of efforts made by the Communist Party in Hollywood to influence the work of writers in Hollywood, such as the Albert Maltz incident, with which I am certain you are familiar.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The screen play written by Richard Collins, which you may recall from the testimony of Mr. Collins; and the adaptation of a book to the screen, I believe the title of which was "Cornered," or possibly the title of which was "Crossfire"; do you recall which of the two it was, with which Mr. Dmytryk was concerned in his testimony ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, I am not sure. I believe he made both of those pictures and I am not sure about the case.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is unimportant as to which it is.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I think he made them both.
Mr. TAVENNER. The point is that Mr. Dymtryk testified at length regarding efforts made to influence the production of that picture, that is, efforts by the Communist Party.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I am aware of that, and that did strike a bell with me. I remember a somewhat similar incident in my life at a much earlier date.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to tell the committee in detail what your experience was while a member of the Communist Party with the efforts of the Communist Party to influence you in your writings. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder entered hearing room.)
Mr. SCHULBERG. I will try to do that, sir. From about 1937, as I say, I was first in a study group, a Marxist study group, which without any formality that I remember, became a Young Communist League group, and then I believe became a youth group, still more or less the same group, some changes here or there, a youth group of the Communist Party, as I say, in each step without much formality that I remember. I joined because at the time I felt that the political issues that they seemed to be in favor of, mostly I recall the opposition to the Nazis and to Mussolini and a feeling that something should be done about it, those things attracted me, and there were some others, too. At the same time I was very much interested in my own writing, as I say. In 1937, while a member of the group, and in 1938 also, I  began to write short stories. 585 These stories were published in many, many different magazines. I believe the feeling of the group was that these stories were not exactly what would be expected of someone writing as a Communist. Long before any difficulty that I got into for writing What Makes Sammy Run ? I was told these stories were too realistic, they were too depressing, decadent, and there were many other words. Having some soft sides in my nature, and on some sides a little stronger, I decided that as a writer I had to go ahead and write as well as I could what I felt like writing. During these years, I would say through 1938, while there was considerable and I would say a growing tension about this dispute, I must say I was on the political side still in favor of the immediate issues as the Communists seemed to be following them. I don't remember having any arguments then about trying to arouse people against the Nazis, and so forth, but I do remember many arguments about my writings. Though I had been somewhat of a zealot in 1936, I think I was much more of a zealot before I was in any organization. It is much easier before you are subjected to any discipline. By early 1939'I was definitely backsliding. I was trying to avoid as many meetings as I could and as many responsibilities as I could. 1 wasn't seeing the right people. Most of the people I was seeing were writers. Some of these writers might have been strongly opposed to the party. Some perhaps had not even heard of the party, I don't know, but they were not interested in the party as a group. The subject was brought up at the meetings that I was attending, and I told them that I was then interested inMr. TAVENNER. What type of meetings are you referring to now ?
Mr. SCHLBERG. I would say by 1939 that these were meetings of the youth group of the Communist Party. Whether it was a Young Communist League in early 1939 or a youth group of the Communist Party in the party, I honestly cannot say. I haven't been able to check. To my mind it was more or less a technicality. I think anytime around 1938 if they had asked me, "Do you mind if it is changed ?" I don't think I would have said "No," but I don't remember its being discussed. At these meetings I do remember my writing was discussed, and my attitude toward my work was discussed, and it was suggested that I correct my errors, I suppose you would say. At that time I told them I had decided to write a book. The feeling of the group was: "That is fine. Writing is very important, books are very important, provided that they are useful weapons. What kind of a book do you intend to write?"--since I had used my book as an excuse for dropping out and not going to meetings. I said I had written a short story published in Liberty magazine in 1937 which was entitled "What Makes Sammy Run?", and that I had been thinking seriously of developing that into a novel. In fact, I had written more than one short story. I had begun to write a series of short stories about a central character which were published in Liberty and other magazines and which later. became a part of the book that I was to write. 586 INDUSTRY The reaction to my idea for this book was not favorable, I would say. The feeling was that this was a destructive idea; that, again, it was much too individualistic; that it didn't begin to show what were called the progressive forces in Hollywood; and that it was something they thought should either be abandoned or discussed with some higher authority than the youth group before I began to work on it. (Representative Francis E. Walter entered hearing room.) MAr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you at that point. Who in the Communist Party group made suggestions of that type to you and engaged in a discussion of the matters you have referred to?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, sir, in the youth group many people felt strongly about it. I believe the one who either felt most strongly or was most responsible at that time was Richard Collins. He disapproved strongly of my attitude toward writing and toward the Communists. When no agreement could be reached, and when both sides were adamant about this, it was suggested by Collins, as I recall, that I speak to John Howard Lawson and that possibly he could advise me on the changes of the approach or in some way direct my work so that it would not have the destructive and individualistic approach that the group felt I was taking, one which was in opposition to the program of the party, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as a result of that advice, did you confer with John Howard Lawson?
Mr. SCHLBERG. Yes, sir; I did. I went to see Lawson. I believe it was suggested-I can't remember any longer if it was the group or Lawson that suggested that before I dropped out to do the book, that I submit some kind of outline, but either in the group or through Lawson it was suggested that I submit an outline and discuss the whole matter further, and if it was considered a project that was useful-there was a lot of talk at that time about proletarian novels. That is a museum piece now, but at that time there was a great deal of talk about the proletarian novel and how writers could be useful.
Mr. TAVENNER. Describe to the committee the proletarian novel to which you refer.
Mr. SCHULBERG. That is a difficult assignment. I will try. It was a kind of stock writing formula in that day. The writers were trying to write books about factories, about strikes, about opposition to capitalists, and so forth. SThis would be hindsight. I don't pretend any wisdom on the subject. But now that I look back, after having studied it more fully, I think it was very similar to what the writers in the Soviet Union were being told at the same time. They were being told that anything that helped the 5-year plan, that made the workers happier in their role, was a good book; if it did not, it was not a good book. Looking back now, it seems that most of the best writers in the Soviet Union were silenced because they were not willing to take that command. But I don't pretend to have known that at the time I was having my squabbles and arguments with Richard Collins, John Howard Lawson, and other people in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. I interrupted you in your narrative of what occurred with reference to the.pressure brought to bear upon you by Lawson and others.  INDUSTRY 587 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe it was decided that this was not a worthy project unless I submitted to much more discipline. It is always ,called self-discipline, though I didn't find much self-discipline in it, ;but it was called self-discipline and it was suggested you submit to it. Many people have submitted to this self-discipline, which, from what I can see, is imposed from without and does not have much to do with self. I decided I would have to get away from this if I was ever to be a writer. I decided to leave the group, cut myself off, pay no more dues, listen to no more advice, indulge in no more political literary discussions, and to go away from the party, from Hollywood, and try to write a book, which is what I did. I went to Vermont in May of 1939. I settled there and I began to write. I stayed there all through 1939 and into 1940. I believe I :spent a month or two at Mount Kisco in a hotel doing my final revisions-not final revisions, I guess a book is never finally revised, ;but doing some revisions. After that I returned to Hollywood again, after I had submitted :my book to the publishers.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return to Hollywood ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe in February or March 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, had your book been published by that time?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; it had not been published. It was at that -time being prepared for publication. It was not to be published for .another year. There is a long period of work, doing the manuscript*cutting, going over the galleys, and so forth, before a book is published. The book finally was published on March 27, 1941.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any further difficulty, or did you 'receive any further advice from the Communist Party, before the :publication of the book ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I did. When I returned, Richard Col- lins came to me-I am not absolutely sure, but I believe by this time 'he seems to have grown somewhat in importance in party groups. I think he had been treasurer of the group when I left. He seemed now to be in some position of greater authority. He came to me and said that they felt that my whole attitude had :been sharply in opposition to the party; that I had gone away without announcement. In those days-I suppose it is the same today- I am :sure it is-you were not supposed to go away without saying where you were going and getting what was called a transfer. You were sup-posed to transfer so that they could pick up your dues, and so forth, at the next place you went. I hadn't done this. I had simply broken -off and gone away. They didn't think this was a very good idea. 'They didn't think finishing my book and turning it in to my publisher without further consultation was a very good idea.
Mr. TAVENNER. Right there let me ask you: You were requested -to furnish to Lawson an outline of your book ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you do that?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; I did not. I think it was also suggested that I show him the book itself, which, also, I did not do. I feel very, very strongly that every writer has to choose his own guidance in these matters. 588 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you of the opinion that the lack of freedom of that description would destroy you as a writer ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I am not sure how consciously I knew it at that time. At the time I felt I had to get away from any control in order to be able to write at all; and, as I say, though Mr. Collins, I think, suggested that I get out because of the adverse criticism of the party to my book, actually, as I am sure he would remember, this had a very long history. It had begun with my very first short story and had increased as I continued writing. \What was your question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you to ask whether or not you had furnished to Lawson a copy of the book or outline.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Never; never; I never did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you were describing to us what had occurred prior to the publication and release of your book.
Mr. SCHLBERG. Yes, sir. Collins came to me and told me all the- criticisms that had been made against me. By this time it had increased. By this time there was another problem. I didn't seem to be too much in favor of the Nazi-Soviet Pact.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us go into that subject a little later. Let us confine ourselves for the moment to this pressure and influencebrought to bear upon you as a writer.
Mr. SCHULBERG. He said he thought I should come back to the group and not just go away and talk against them, as he had heard I had talked; not to be undisciplined, as he felt I had been for many years; and if I had these objections which he had heard I had told to others that I should come and at least present them and do it cleanI believe he said, "Are you in or out of this thing?" and that I said, "As far as I am concerned, since I left in May I am out." I had these discussions with the group, which were lengthy, both sides presenting their views, which continued to clash, and it was then suggested that I talk to John Howard Lawson, and that since they couldn't settle it, that maybe he could; and I did have a talk again with John Howard Lawson about the book. He felt that they should see it, and felt that it was not the sort of thing I should do, and in a sense indicated that I was not functioning as a Communist writer. This was also inconclusive. I think both positions were maintained just as they had been in the group. Finally it was suggested that I talk with a man by the name of V. J. Jerome, who was in Hollywood at that time. I went to see him. Looking back, it may be hard to understand why, after all these wrangles and arguments, I should go ahead and see V. J. Jerome. But maybe every writer has an insatiable curiosity about these things; I don't know. Anyway, I went. It was on Hollywood Boulevard in an apartment. I didn't do much talking. I listened to V. J. Jerome. I am not sure what his position was, but I remember being told that my entire attitude was wrong; that I was wrong about writing; wrong about this book, wrong about the party; wrong about the so-called peace movement at that particular time; and I gathered from the conversation in no uncertain terms that I was wrong. I don't remember saying much. I remember it more as a kind of harangue. When I came away I felt maybe, almost for the first  INDUSTRY 589 time, that this was to me the real face of the party. I didn't feel I had talked to just a comrade. I felt I had talked to someone rigid and dictatorial who was trying to tell me how to live my life, and as far as I remember, I didn't want to have anything more to do with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have spoken several times of your conferences on a lower level with a group, and you named Richard Collins as a member of that group. Will you identify that group more fully at this time as to whom they were who were talking to you, endeavoring to persuade you to desist in your plan of writing? I am not asking you to state at this time the names' of all the members of the Communist Party with whom you came in contact. I want to limit it at this point to those who took part in these discussions to which you have referred.
Mr. SCHULBERG. This would be the tone of the group in general. Some would feel more strongly about it and others less so. We think of the Communists as a monolithic block and in general movements I am convinced they are a monolith. The individuals varied. There were some stronger and some weaker. But I believe it was also the view of Paul Jarrico, and not to the same extent that of Ring Lardner, Jr. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who
Mr. SCHULBERG. Ring Lardner, Jr., who I felt always to be more tolerant in these matters than the others. Those are the principal members in the group itself that I remember discussing this with. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You were in the course of telling us what occurred after you returned to Hollywood in 1940 and prior to the release of your book in 1941. 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. Well, in the fall of 1940 I returned to New York to correct my galleys, and stayed there doing that and making last minute changes until sometime early in 1941. It seems to me I returned to Hollywood again shortly before my book was actually supposed to appear. I was only there a short time then, but I gathered that the feeling of the Communist Party against the book had been mounting. I think by that time there were advance copies of the book out. A book is in a sense out sometimes 3 months before it actually appears. I think advance copies had been read before it was out, and the feeling was that all the storm warnings that had been raised against me had been disregarded, and that the work that was about to come out was even worse than anyone could imagine. I was told- at that time that a meeting would take place. Well, no, I am not sure I was right then; I am not sure. I was a little bit excited at that time because it was my first novel and I was very curious as to what people would think of it, and I felt some people were not going to like it very well, and I decided to go down to a quiet spot and sit around on the beach, and maybe drop in at de Houslaus' Bar or something, and wait until this whole thing blew over. I did. I went to Ensenada, and I thought I was waiting for it to blow over. I guess it hasn't quite blown over yet. As I say, I had been told that there was going to be a meetin against the book. When I returned to Hollywood after the book 590 INDUSTRY had been published, I ran into various people. It turned out to be rather a controversial book inside the Communist Party, apparently,. and outside. People took rather violent sides on this. Some people disliked it intensely, and others were more favorable to it. I heard that a meeting was to take place. No, it wasn't quite like that. There was a review in the Daily Worker about that time. I think it was early April sometime before I returned from Ensenada. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. How long was that before the release of the book, do you recall?
Mr. SCHULBERG. As I recall, it was shortly after. about the time any other book review would come out. It would be 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of the release of your book?
Mr. SCHULBERG. March 27, 1941. So I would say that was about a week later. The book review was a very favorable book review. 
Mr. TAVENNER. From the Daily Worker?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. It said that this was "the Hollywood novel." It said that most of the novels before that treated with Hollywood had resorted to filth, and that this book was hearteningly free from all of this; that it dealt realistically with the Hollywood scene. I think I was called a realist; I think I was called in important comer; and in general it was a pretty good review. Apparently the review was a mistake. I heard there was consternation about the review and that somehow the reviewer had missed a signal.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any meetings held in Communist Party circles before the so-called mistake had been discovered ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. What meetings there were in Communist circles before, I honestly couldn't say, because I wouldn't have been a part of them, but I was told there was going to be a public meeting engineered by, but I don't believe confined to, Communists, at which the reviewer would be called to account and the real party line on the book would be laid down. I was asked if I wanted to come to this meeting, and I said that I didn't believe any writer should defend his book in public. I have never defended a book in public. I hope I am not doing it here, because it is something I don't believe in. A book is defended by the writer when he writes it, and after that everybody has a right to like or dislike it if he wishes.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is, in the United States ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Exactly; in the United States and I would say generally in the Western World.
Mr. JACKSON. Who extended this invitation or told you of this indignation meeting that was to be held ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That I can't remember. I can't remember exactly who it was who asked me to the meeting. It may have been one of any number of people, and I don't recall. I simply remember I was asked, and I remember what I said and that I refused to go. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, after the meeting, I understand various mis- takes were discovered. What were you referring to?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, I understand that it was pointed out at the meeting that this review was entirely opposite to what it should  INDUSTRY 591 have been; that the book was not an honest book; that it was a dis- honest book. I have copies of the two reviews. It would be too lengthy to describe them point by point.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have them here. I will introduce them.
Mr. SCHULBERG. In that case I will try to remember it as well as I can. The feeling was that I had slandered the progressive forces. I believe they said it was not a Hollywood novel at all. All the things brought out in the meeting which I am reporting, I neglected to say, appeared in a new review shortly after the meeting. The new review, by the same reviewer. It is the only time I have been reviewed good and bad by the same reviewer. It is the only time I ever remember one book reviewer reviewing the same book twice, 10 days apart, and in almost every instance one review was completely at variance with the other, point by point. The book which was not filthy was filthy; the book which-was realistic was reactionary; the book which was healthy was diseased.
Mr. VELDE. Was it reviewed by the same man in both instances?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes. I remember his name. It was Charles Glenn.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where was Charles Glenn then employed?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I imagine both by the Daily Worker and the Peo- ple's World. I believe those reviews appeared simultaneously in both newspapers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you known Charles Glenn prior to that time?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I may have met him once in Hollywood browsing around in a book shop one day. I knew him, I think I was introduced to him once before that, and that is all, simply as somebody who wrote on that paper.
Mr. WALTER. May I ask you a question at this point? What was there in the book, What Makes Sammy Run? that would cause the Communists to attack the book?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, sir; they could answer that much better than I could. As I recall the attack and the reviews, the objection was towhat I believe they called the whole approach to literature. I think they feel that you have to have a propagandistic point of view. They felt that I simply had not shown the things that they thought ought to be shown; that I had just written an individual story about one person. I never intended it to be typical of Hollywood. I didn't intend it to be typical of all the Hollywood producers. It was the story of one person as I saw him, characteristic, that I thought could happen but didn't happen in Hollywood all the time. It was at variance withwhat they thought a book about Hollywood should be.
Mr. WALTER. In other words, they objected to the fact you had over- looked a chance to slant a story ? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. I would say so, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. In fact, one of the criticisms was that you had not- dealt strongly enough with the work that had been done in the reorganization of the Screen Writers' Guild? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. That was one of their many objections, that they- felt I had almost-I am not sure if the word "slandered" was used, but they felt I had completely overlooked the real work that had been done to build up the guild, and had not placed enough emphasis on thelittle people of Hollywood and so on. I was not attempting to proveor disprove anything. I was just trying to tell my story. 592 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Elizabeth Leech Glenn ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir. I don't remember ever being acquainted with her.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to introduce in evidence the book reviews referred to. The first is taken from People's World of April 2, 1941, page 5, the heading of which is "Novel-the story of a Hollywood heel," by Charles Glenn. I desire to offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 1. 'The second is the issue of the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941 [p. 7], the heading of which is "What Makes Sammy Run ?-story of a Hollywood heel," by Charles Glenn. I offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 2. The third is the issue of the Daily Worker of April 8, 1941 [p. 7], and appears under the heading, "News in the world of stage and screen," by Charles Glenn. Desire to offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 3. The next is the April 24, 1941, issue of the People's World [p. 5], under the heading, "Hollywood vine," by Charles Glenn. I offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 4. And finally, the issue of April 23, 1941 [p. 7], of the Diily Worker, an article entitled, "Hollywood Can Be Won to the Side of the American People-Actors and Directors Respond to Criticism of Film Audiences," by Charles Glenn. I desire to offer it in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 5.
Mr. WooD. Let them be received. (The book reviews above referred to, marked "Schulberg Exhibits 1, 2, 3,4, and 5," respectively, are filed herewith.) 1 (Representative Bernard W. Kearney left hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, I referred a moment ago to the review by Charles Glenn in which he made a favorable review, and the only criticism was that which I mentioned, that the battle to organize the Screen Writers' Guild was sketched too lightly in the novel. And you have described in a general way the favorable comment that was made by the representative of the Daily Worker.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir; I tried to.
Mr. TAVENNER. There was also an additional review by Charles Glenn on April 8, 1941, page 7, which has been introduced in evidence as Schulberg exhibit No. 3. Were you familiar with that second review which was also a favorable review ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. No, sir; that I don't know about. I was aware of two reviews, one favorable and another that was not.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of this second review, exhibit 3, this statement is made: Originally, we passed on second-hand word about Budd Schulberg's new book, What Makes Sammy Run? Having finished it now, may we pass on word that while it doesn't qualify as the great American novel, it's still the best work done on Hollywood ? Showing that there had been a rather deliberate and painstaking review of your book by the reviewer of the Daily Worker which extended over a period of days. 1 Retained in committee files.  INDUSTRY 593 I would like to read into the record that portion of exhibits 4 and 5 in which Glenn explains the reasons for his change. In the Daily People's World of April 24, 1941, Mr. Glenn explained his about-face by this statement, and I quote: Since writing the review, I have received several criticisms on it. On the basis of these criticisms, I've done a reevaluation of my work. It's rather important that this reevaluation be done, not in the light of breast beating, but in the light of constructive self-criticism, by which anyone who writes for this paper must work. Understanding your own mistakes is the first requirement of criticism. If you don't understand your own, how can you be expected to consistently understand the weaknesses and mistakes of those on the other side of the fence? I want also to read into the record the explanation which appeared in the Daily Worker of April 23, 1941, which is exhibit 5. It is in this language, and I quote: On the basis of quite lengthy discussion on the book, I've done a little reevaluating, and this helps me emphasize the points I've tried to make here. * * * To say I felt more than a trifle silly when these weaknesses (in the Schulberg novel) were called to my attention is putting it a bit mildly. It is precisely the superficial subjective attitude shown in this review which reflects the dangers of an "anti-Hollywood" approach, conscious or unconscious. This isn't breast beating. It's a necessary criticism, because until the attitude reflected is cleaned up, Hollywood will not and cannot be considered the force for peace and progress it is and can be. Those were the explanations given after the meeting which you have referred to, in which your book had been criticized and Glenn had been called on the carpet about his first favorable report on your novel.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I had not realized there were two different re- views, but that does check with my memory of the one review I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. To emphasize clearly the way in which the Com- munist Party changed and followed the dictates of some directing authority, I want to read into the record, just very briefly, some of those outstanding points which you mentioned in the course of your testimony. What I am going to read now is from the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941, and also from the People's World of April 2, 1941, being the favorable review of Charles Glenn. This is his language: For slightly fewer years than they have awaited the great American novel, whatever that may be, American bibliophiles and critics have been awaiting the Hollywood novel. While they may argue its merits and demerits I've a feeling that all critics, no matter their carping standards, will have to admit they've found the Hollywood novel in Budd Schulberg's'What Makes Sammy Run? Now, in the retractive statement of Charles Glenn published in the People's World of April 24, 1941, this is what he says, and I quote: The first error I made was in calling the book the Hollywood novel. And I quote again, from the Daily Worker of April 23, 1941: Recently I wrote a review on Budd Schulberg's book, What Makes Sammy Run? I said it was the story of a Hollywood heel and could be regarded as the Hollywood novel. On the basis of quite lengthy discussion on the book, I've done a little reevaluating, and this helps me emphasize the points I've tried to make here. He then makes various criticisms, and adds: Can it then be termed "the Hollywood novel"? 81595-51-pt. 3- 5 594 INDUSTRY I want the record to also show one or two other points, so that it may be plain. I quote from the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941, and the People's World of April 2, 1941, which was the favorable review: Former works on the film city have been filthy with four-letter words, spoken and implied. * * * None of these things hold true for Schulberg's novel. There is nothing vulgar in what he says, nothing superficially vulgar, that is. * * * Writing in the first person, Schulberg tells of the good as well as the bad. Then, after the meeting, from the Daily Worker of April 23, 1941, appears this statement: We do not intend to go into all the aspects of the conscience of a writer, a conscience which allows him (with full knowledge of the facts) to show only the dirt and the filth. And from the People's World again, of April 24, 1941, after the meeting, I quote: In a full-drawn portraiture of either Sammy Glick or Hollywood, the people must be seen in action, living the lives they lead. Even more effective would the filth of Sammy Glick become when counterposed to the cleanliness of the people. 
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Counsel, may I make a comment at this point?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. VELDE. I feel very definitely that this illustrates the degree of control the Communist Party had over the People's World- and the New York Daily Worker and all writers in their jurisdiction.
Mr. TAVENNER. I call attention to one other point which I desire to be shown in the record. In the Daily Worker of April 7, 1941, and the- People's World of April 2, 1941, which are the favorable reviews, this language appears: Characters [referring to former books on Hollywood] have been drawn black and white, most Hollywood denizens turning out to be unadulterated heels. * * * None of these things hold true for Schulberg's novel. Then, after the meeting, from the People's World of April 24, 1941, appears this language: Some day that story of the Guild will be thoroughly told, well dramatized, and done in all the shades of gray which entered the picture, not on the plain black and whites drawn in the Schulberg book. You mentioned a moment ago that you have never known of a more complete reversal in a review than there was in this case.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I have never seen anything like that; no, sir. I have seen some reviews of my work that I myself might like to change a little bit, but I believe very deeply that in this country every man must act on the basis of his own individual conscience, and that that is one of our privileges and that no'one should ever have to change his mind because of dictation from above or outside.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has your attention been drawn to another criticism of your book from Communist sources?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Well, sir, I could not identify it as officially a Communist source, but there was a magazine review which I believe was more or less in line with this general attack on me and my work; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that the article written by W. L. River, appearing in the Clipper publication?  INDUSTRY 595 
Mr. SCHiLBERG. Yes, sir; it is. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The issue of June 21, 1941, at page 20. I will ask you to look at that review and state if it is the one to which you refer? 
Mr. SCHULBERG. Thank you. [After examining document:] Yes, it is.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire merely to file this. I will not introduce it as an exhibit.
Mr. SCHULBERG. May I say, sir, that I do remember that review quite well, and that I felt he had a right to write it. If it was his own individual opinion, I would have no objection. If it was part of, in a sense, a mass effort, I would then object very strongly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the writer, W. L. River ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I knew him slightly; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not he was a member of the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I could not say definitely that he was; no, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Do you know whether or not Charles Glenn was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Only by assuming that anyone writing for those publications would be.
Mr. WALTER. By that you mean nobody would have a job with the Daily Worker or this other publication unless he was a Communist?
Mr. SCHULBERG. That would be my hunch. I have never tried to get a job with them, but that would be my hunch.
Mr. WALTER. A pretty good hunch.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Pretty good; yes.
Mr. VELDE. As a matter of fact, I think testimony before this com- mittee was to the effect that all writers for the Daily Worker, People's World, and New Masses had to be Communist Party members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schulberg, is this effort within the Communist Party of the United States to control the work of writers, which you have so graphically described in your own case, consistent with what is occurring in Russia, from any information that is available to you?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe it is; yes, sir; I do. I believe that writing has been very tightly controlled there, and that those who refused to follow the party line were not able to write, or sometimes ceased to exist. On the other hand, those who did, received all kinds of emoluments and were the most privileged people there. I think that has been the history of writing in the Soviet Union, with perhaps one exception.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been in the Soviet Union ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
Mr. SCHULBERG. In 1934, during the summer. May I say that I don't want to sound too sure of the subject, but 2 or 3 months ago I did begin to write an article on the subject of what has happened to writing in the Soviet Union between my first visit in 1934, when I must say Iwas very impressed, and 1951, which is a relatively short period. I have done a great deal of research on the subject.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee the benefit of your research and your views at this time, briefy ? I think it fits in exactly with the pattern that you have described in matters that have affected 596 INDUSTRY you, and it is particularly pertinent that you contrast the experience which you have gone through with what you have discovered from your studies are the conditions in the other country.
Mr. SCHULBERG. In the late twenties and early thirties writing was controlled by a proletarian group. I have forgotten the name of the organization. It was an organization that controlled all writing, and unless you were satisfactory to the head of this group you just didn't write. I am talking about the Soviet Union. This is in Russia. Those writers who didn't conform to that were silenced. I think the very best writers, Isaac Babel and many others, felt they could not write under those circumstances. They had slogans for writing. One slogan was: "All novels must make workers feel happier under the 5-year plan." If the book suggested it was not altogether true, or only 99.9 percent true, there was a good chance it would not be published. If it suggested it was only 50 percent true, there was a good chance the writer would not be around any more. One day, according to my research, Stalin looked around and said, "Our writing is pretty dull." They said, "Let's find the man who is making it dull." They got the man, who was the head of this group, and sent him to Siberia and shot him. For 2 years there was a lessening up. When I went there in 1934 there was a writers' congress, which was more or less a welcoming back of all the people who had been silenced and under cover. The reason for that was that Gorki, head of the writing organization, believed there should be a more lenient attitude. I was on the platform at that writers' congress, and that is what did impress me. I remember Gorki speaking, and a man named Bukharin spoke, and Isaac Babel spoke, and many of the great poets, Pasternak, and so forth. This is hindsight. I think it is a striking fact that every man who appeared on the platform and called for greater leniency-I think it was called a new silver age of literature-every one of these men by 1938 had either been shot or been silenced, and after that none of these writers, who were trying to follow their individual line, were able to function any more. Some were silenced. Some committed suicide. Some disappeared. Some decided to conform and wrote in the approved style and made a lot of money and did very well. I believe that is much the situation today. I really believe that you have to conform or in some way you get out or they put you out. I don't know if I should say it in connection with this, but there is an organization called Friends for Intellectual Freedom.
Mr. TAVENNER. I was just going to ask you about that. What part have you been playing in the work of that organization, and describe the work of the organization.
Mr. SCHULBERG. The organization is interested in helping those writers who have suffered under those conditions and who are able to get out and to try to rehabilitate them and to help them write as they please. For that reason, a number of writers, novelists-Arthur Koestler, Aldous Huxley, Graham Greene, John Dos Passos, James T. Farrell, Richard Revere, Stephan Spender, and myself, among others; I believe there are others-have decided to try to raise funds, if they can, to help these people.  INiDUSTRY 597 I am in a sense sorry to have to mention it, because it has not been an organization that has been seeking any publicity at all. It is sup- posed to be just a direct contribution from writer to writer and has discouraged any wide publicity. The thought was that those who were able to write as they pleased would turn over a percentage of their own royalties to those people who haven't been able to do that.
Mr. WALTER. Where are the beneficiaries of that program located
Mr. SCHULBERG. In Western Germany, I believe, and in France, and here, any writers who are deemed worthy and who are refugees from the system.
Mr. RHETTs. Mr. Tavenner, we have here simply a statement of what this organization is, its purposes, and something about it, and if the committee would like to have it I would be glad to make it available.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; we shall be glad to have it.
Mr. RHETTS. Would you care to introduce it as an exhibit?
Mr. TAVENNER. We will file it with his testimony.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe through these people we will have an op- portunity to get first-hand information on what has actually been happening. For instance, I have heard a number of stories. One is that a very distinguished Soviet critic, Corvely Zelinsky, decided he would try to write the history of the Soviet literature. He began with high hopes after the writers' congress I have described, but so many changes had to be made, for instance, one chapter would have to be thrown out because it was written about a writer who was just ar- rested, and so forth, that he decided after 3 years that it was impossible to write a history of literature in the Soviet Union that would be hon est.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, the changes were probably for the same reason that John Howard Lawson was required to change his history that he was writing, if you are familiar with that testimony ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I believe it does have exactly the same effect; yes, sir. I was very interested in finding out that meetings are held and writers are denounced and from that time on their works are no longer in publication. I feel that the only difference with me is that we have many different forms of publications. There is not a single one where, if you fall out with a group, you are finished. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have there been any instances where you have ob- tained direct information from a person who has been subjected to that type of treatment in Russia ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. Yes, sir. In the preparation of this article which I- began, as I said, 3 months ago, I wrote to someone who was somewhat of an authority in this field, who had come out of Russia only in the last 2 or 3 years, and I told him of my experience in 1934 when I had been impressed. I told him I had met Gorki and a playwright by the name'of Alfinogenoff, and many others, and it had begun to strike me that all the people who told me how hopeful they were, in 1934, weren't around any more. I said I didn't know any more about it than that writers' congress, because I had attended. I asked if he could fill me in on what happened after that time, and he did write me a letter which I found extremely enlightening, and if you wish I will read some parts of it. 598 
Mr. TAVENNER. I will not ask you to disclose at this time the name of the person who wrote you the letter.
Mr. SCHULBERG. Thank you, sir. It is a rather long letter. I don't want to read it all.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to read the parts that are pertinent to the inquiry, whether short or long.
Mr. SCHULBERG (reading): You were very fortunate to be in Moscow in 1934. The period from April 1932 (decree abolishing the special proletarian groups in literature and art) to 1935 was a time of good and new hopes. During that period the Soviet literature was under the strong and friendly leadership and protection of Maxim Gorki. The apogee of that short "silver age" was the first convention of the Soviet writers in September 1934. The principal speakers at the first convention were Gorki (Soviet Literature and Socialistic Realism) and Nicholai Bukharin (The Problems of Soviet Poetry). The last name certainly shows what a tolerant atmosphere was present at the convention. Among the many speakers was Isaac Babel. This gifted novelist was silenced since 1927 (or 1928) and I still remember how surprised and pleased I was to see him on the podium speaking a brilliant speech in his usual sharp-witted manner. The all materials of the first convention seemed to be unorthodox, doubtful and unreliable for Stalin. This is very important for clear understanding what had happened in 1936 and 1937. It is easy to remark that all repressions and liquidations in the literature and in the literary circles which took place during the Yernov era- I don't know what that iswere tightly connected with the first convention, its most important speakers and organizers. Gorki was poisoned (1936), Bukharin was dismissed from his * * * office as editor in chief of "Izvestia", arrested (1937) and shot (1938) Then there were a bunch of Russian names (continuing reading) : and many other .novelists were arrested-the same as poets Pavel Vassiliyev, Boris Kornilov, Zaholotsky, Smelyakoff and others. Some of their colleaguesprominent Soviet writers and poets completely stopped their creative activityamong them Selvinsky, Pasternak, Sholockov, Fedin, and Leonov. After 1937 Soviet literature was like a big army retreating after unsuccessful decisive battle. Some generals were missing, some retreated in silence, trying not to show their fear and doubts. Others tried to make a gay look and impression that nothing of importance was happening. This group did not stop their activity during the Yernov era and produced some bad plays and novels. * * * Some of the writers who belonged to the silent group later (in 1939 or 1940) broke the silence and started to write in the new orthodox way. It was a great creative degradation for them. So did Tolstoy, Sholockov, Fedin, poet Antokolsky. Some of the writers never tried again-like Boris Pasternak-the finest poet of contemporary Russian and an extremely noble and honest person. So far as I know he only translates from English and French. During the war he translated Hamlet. But I have never heard that any of them did something active "anti" like Meyerhold. I might say when I went to the Soviet Union in 1934 one of the things that had impressed.me most was that I had an opportunity to meet Meyerhold, who was the foremost stage director in the Soviet Union and probably one of the outstanding ones in the world, and he showed me through his theater (continuing reading) : The case of Meyerhold was a unique one. It certainly was a very rare combination of the big mistakes of the Government. * * * I think I should explain he is writing something that is known to me. Meyerhold had been a director until 1937. At that time his technique fell into disrepute and he was under a very strong cloud. I don't think he was allowed to produce anything at all in 1937. In 1939  INDUSTRY 599 there was a meeting of the stage directors in Russia and Meyerhold, who had been silenced for a long time, asked for an opportunity to speak. He got up and spoke on June 14, 1939, and I honestly believe that his speech will go down as one of the great speeches in defense of individual conscience in the field of art. He told them he had always done the best that he could in his own way; that he couldn't follow anybody else's line or point of view; but that if he was a formalist, and if all the plays he saw on the stage at that time were Socialist realism, he was glad to be a formalist, and so forth. The day after that speech Meyerhold disappeared, and when the yearbook came out at the end of the year, giving all the speeches of the directors at this convention, Meyerhold's speech was conspicuous by its absence. I think in another 20 or 30 years probably nobody in that country will have ever heard of Meyerhold. I think he will be completely removed and will be what is called a non-person. Shall I continue this letter, sir? 
Mr. TAVENNER. If there is anything else there pertinent to our discussion.
Mr. SCHULBERG. I don't believe so, except for one last word about Afinogenoff. He had been one of my hosts. I had gone to his home when I was in the Soviet Union in 1934. I went to see one of his plays. I asked what had happened to Afinogenoff, and he said in 1937 or 1938 they decided Afinogenoff's plays were not good, not following the line, and they were removed from the repertoire of the Soviet Union.
Mr. TAVENNER. And do I understand it was the same general type of disagreement with regard to a writer's freedom to write that caused your original disaffection with the Communist Party ?
Mr. SCHULBERG. I now believe it was. I didn't relate it that way at that time, but it was something which the Communists call a social command. A writer in a sense was looked upon as a soldier, and he was given certain social commands, and if he didn't follow those social commands he was no longer permitted to function in that system. I think at that time I was being given a social command. I didn't know it at the time by that name, neither did they, but I think in a mild way that is what it was.
Mr. WooD. The committee will stand in recess until 2: 30. (Thereupon, at 12:20 p. m., a recess was taken until 2:30 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION 
Mr. WALTER. The committee will come to order. Let the record show the committee members present consist of Mr. Doyle, Mr. Walter, Mr. Velde, and Mr. Frazier. TESTIMONY OF BUDD SCHULBERG-Resumed 