Mr. TAVENNER. You are Mr. Carl Foreman?
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Foreman ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I was born on July 23, 1904, in Chicago, Ill., 1914, I beg your pardon.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I reside in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I believe that I have lived here since 1937 or 1938, sir, with the exception of the time that I was in the armed services.
Mr. WALTER. Are you represented by counsel
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir; I am. 1753 1754 
Mr1. WALTER. Will counsel please identify himself.
Mr. COIIN. Sidney Cohn, New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee in a general way what your educational background has been?
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir. I was educated in the public schools of Chicago. I attended high school there. I attended Crane Junior College, which was a city college, where I majored in journalism. I attended the University of Illinois, where I majored in journalism. I also attended the John Marshall Law School for a brief period, and Northwestern University.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. FOREMAN. I am a writer, sir, basically for motion pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you engaged in that activity?
Mr. FOREMAN. Since 1940, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a brief statement of your record of employment or association since you became a writer.
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir. I entered the industry, I believe, in 1940, when I sold a motion-picture story to the Monogram Studios for Bela Lugosi and the Dead End Kids, and it was called Spooks Run Wild, I think, and-Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little bit.
Mr. FOREMAN. It is now being shown on television. Surely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Thank you.
Mr. FOREMAN. I had a very difficult time entering the industry. It is very difficult to become a writer in Hollywood or become anything else in Hollywood. I had been here for some 2 or 3 years previously, trying very hard to become a motion-picture writer, learning how to get in. At the time I sold this story, I think I was working at Technicolor, and I was run over on my way to work, and it was while-I was in bed recuperating that another writer came to me and told me they were looking for this type of story. I had written one some years previously, and having the time, lying in bed, we were able to work it out into something acceptable, and we received $425 for the original story and the screen play, to be divided among ourselves. I did two more pictures for Monogram. I got $300 for the next one, and I decided that perhaps in order to make a living, since it was very hard to make a living working for that kind of independent, I had best try something else, and I then went into radio, did several radio shows as a writer of comedies. That is, comedy radio shows. In 1942 I felt that I couldn't be happy in radio. It was very hard to be a gag man. I was losing my hair, and I was able to get back into motion pictures at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. I remained at Metro-GoldwynMayer until 1943 when I went into the Army. I was in the Army until late 1945 or early 1946, when I returned. I worked at RKO, and then, with some other young men who owne4 another company, formed a company of our own, and I have since been employed and a member of that company. It is the Stanley Kramer Co. Would you like to know what I have written in recent years?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, I would like to know what your principal screen credits have been.
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, within recent years I have written a picture called Champion, Home of the Brave, The Men, Cyrano de Bergerac, Young Man With a Horn, and I am currently engaged in writing  INDUSTRY 1755 and I am an associate producer of a picture called High Noon, starring Gary Cooper. I am a little bit embarrassed about this because you had some young ladies on the stand last week who said they wrote westerns and this is a western.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU shouldn't be embarrassed about that.
Mr. FOREMAN. I understand.
Mr. TAVENNER. There are many very good lady writers.
Mr. FOREMAN. Oh, of course. No, no. It was just that everybody up here Friday, you know, was a lady engaged in the writing of westerns, and this happens to be a western. It is the story of a town that died because it lacked the moral fiber to withstand aggression. It is a suspense story, and I hope it will be a good one. Would you like to-would you care to know of other duties I have at this time, sir, what else I am doing?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. What are your duties?
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, in addition to, as I say, writing High Noon and being an associate producer, I am also a producer or will produce several other motion pictures through our company at Columbia Studios. These are The Happy Time, a Broadway play by Samuel Taylor, to be directed by Richard Fleischer; a novel by John Fante called Full of Life, which will be directed by a member of our company, Edward Dmytryk, and one or two other stories.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Foreman, during the course of this investiga- tion Mr. Martin Berkeley appeared here as one of the witnesses, and in the course of the testimony he referred to you as having been a member of the Communist Party. This is what he said in regard to you: And Carl Foreman- referring to you as a member of the Communist PartyI believe he wrote the screen play of Cyrano de Bergerac and the Champion and other very fine pictures. Then I asked this question: Let me ask you a question here. Does Mr. Foreman hold any position, to your knowledge, with the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. BEKELEY. I am glad you asked me that, sir, because that is very important. I said before that there was only one Communist-let me rephrase that. There is in the guild today only one man I know who was ever a Communist. This man has never, to my knowledge, disavowed his communism. His name is Carl Foreman, the man I just mentioned. He is the only one left on our board. I hope he appears here, sir, and clears himself, because it will help me to clear the guild, and that is a job I want to do. Now, I would like to ask you whether the statement of Mr. Berkeley is correct, first, that you were at one time a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. FOREMAN (after conferring with counsel). I decline to answer that, sir, on the grounds it violates my privileges under the first and fifth amendments of the Constitution. However, if you wish me to go on with Mr. Berkeley's statement I should like to say this
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. I asked you no further question.
Mr. COHN. Mr. Tavenner, I don't thinkMr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner? 1 See p. 1599. 1756 
Mr. TAVENxNER. I think I should give you an opportunity to answer most any question relating to your activities and if I have failed to ask you any question which would bring forth any fact regarding you I shall not object to your statement.
Mr. FOREMAN. Then may I go on to say that on September 11, 1950, I voluntarily signed an oath as a member of the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild that I was not a member of the Communist Party, nor of any party dedicated to the overthrow of the United States Government by force and violence. That statement was true at that time, sir, and is true today.
Mr. WALTER. When was that ?
Mr. FOREMAN. On or about-I am pretty sure it was September 11, 1950, sir. I have said that the statement was true then-it was a voluntary statement-and it is true today, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any time between 1945 and 1950, the time of the taking of the oath which you mentioned, when you were not a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Would you repeat that question, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any time between 1945 and September 11, 1950, when you stated you took the oath that you were not a Communist, when you were not a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. FOREMAN. I decline to answer that, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated you went into the Armed Forces, I believe, in 1943. 
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. It has been testified here by Mr. Leo Townsend that he was a member of the Communist Party prior to entry into the service, but that the Communist Party had a regulation which eliminated them or dropped them from membership while in the armed services. Did that regulation apply to you?
Mr. COHN. May we confer for a moment, please ?
Mr. FOREMAN (after conferring with counsel). Mr. Tavenner, I have already told you that I am not a Communist, and I am not prepared to comment on Mr. Townsend's testimony.
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked you whether or not the regulation which Mr. Townsend referred to applied to you, that you were dropped. In other words, that you were dropped from the Communist Party during the period of your service in the Army.
Mr. FOREMAN (after conferring with counsel). I don't have any knowledge of any such regulation, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time while you were in the armed services ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. Tavenner, you stated a moment ago that you would be very happy for me to give you any information that might help the record, and I wonder if I could at this time, for your information, and for the information of the committee, read to you two commendations which I received while I served in the Army, which testifies to my services in the Army.
Mr. TAVENXER. 1 think it would be perfectly proper for you to state that you were commended while in the armed services, if that occurred.  1757 
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, they are so short, and they make such good reading, I think in fairness to me you might possibly let me read them. I have a commendation here, sir, from Maj. Gen. F. H. Osborne, which reads as follows: 1. One of the most effective and consistent activities in the motion-picture program produced for this division of the Army Pictorial Service has been the production of Private Snafu and Quick Fact series of animated cartoons released through the Army-Navy Screen Magazine. 2. Warmest commendation is extended to all of those officers and men who had a part in developing and carrying through this film program, including Sgt. Carl Foreman. 3. Sergeant Foreman may be justly proud of his part in our common victory. As a soldier assigned to tasks far from combat areas, he sometimes may have felt that his general contribution to the general effort was less than he would have wished it. His has been the thankless Job of working on projects whose results he could not see or measure for himself. He has done that job magnificently. The motion pictures that he and a handful of his fellow soldiers have produced have entertained and instructed millions of soldiers all over the world-an achievement that few soldiers can match. I have a very brief commendation, sir, which reads as follows 1. During the past 21/2 months Sgt. Carl N. Foreman has been detailed to the undersigned officer in connection with the feature-length project No. 3803, entitles "Westward Is Bataan." 2. Sergeant Foreman's services, in connection with assisting the production with this feature picture, has been outstanding. He has, at all times, performed his duties with exceptional zeal, initiative, and skill. 3. It is felt that Sergeant Foreman deserves special commendation for his services and it is further recommended that Sergeant Foreman be promoted to the next higher grade. This is signed by Col. Howard W. Mixon.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the date?
Mr. FOREMAN. September 5, 1944. The date on the other was the 16th of October 1945. I later received the Army Commendation Ribbon on the basis of the commendation from General Osborne. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at that time ? 
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, I have already declined to answer that question. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return from the armed services?
Mr. FOREMAN. I am not quite sure, sir. I think it was late 1945 or early 1946. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Upon your return from the armed services in 1945 did you affiliate with the Communist Party ? 
Mr. FOREMAN. I decline to answer that, Mr. Tavenner, on the grounds stated prior.
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1947 the committee is informed, or has ascertained from a leaflet of the People's Educational Center, that you were an instructor at the spring term; is that correct ? 
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, I decline to answer that because, as you know, the People's Educational Center has been mentioned in these hearings. I would like you to know for the record, however, sir, inasmuch as I had such great difficulty becoming a motion-picture writer, that I have devoted myself to teaching screen writing wherever and whenever I can at a great many kinds of schools and wherever I can. I felt that this was the least I could do. come a writer at the studios. It is very hard to be- 1758 
Mr. TAVENNER. When you engaged in the conducting of those courses that you made reference to were you a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. FOREMAN. I decline to answer that, sir, on the grounds stated above.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Martin Berkeley, in the course of his testimony, stated that you had not, so far as he knew, made a public renunciation of your Communist Party membership. Had you at any time publicly renounced your membership in the Communist Party? SMr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, may we confer for a moment, my counsel and I?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, without commenting on Mr. Berke- ley's testimony in any way, and on the grounds that Ihave mentioned before, but in order to get the record clear, if I may, I think you will remember that this portion of Mr. Berkeley's testimony he also said that people like Adele Buffington, Allen Rivkin, Leonard Spiegelgass, and Karl Tunberg deserve a vote of thanks for cleaning out the guild for helping the guild, and so forth. So I think it highly germane, il you will allow me, sir, to read to you a letter which I received on May 24, 1951, from Miss Adele Buffington, whom I am sure is known to you and the committee. Do I have your permission, sir?
Mr. WALTER. Go ahead and read the letter.
Mr. FOREMAN. She writes: DEa CARL- I should explain that this letter was written at a time during our contract negotiations with the major producers and, as you know, during contract negotiations spirits run very high with possible excitement and everybody is worried about their just rights being protected. Miss Buffington writes as follows: DEAR CARL: Attached is a copy of my Notes and Analysis on the contract situation which you said would help you, now that you realize what has happened, beyond your own board experiences in the matter. If it seems like a long document, it is because of the necessary, clarifying detail involved. Also, I have made it a rule to document my guild activities and my relative opinions as expressed openly on account of an awareness of how vulnerable to intraguild attack my personal position continues to be. Thanks again for assisting my guild efforts before the board in the past, and for anything you can now do to help the "little guy" in the guild in this incredible situation. Personally I am discouraged as hell and worn out carrying this torch. I suppose I ought to get smart and pitch it overboard before I starve to death myself or someone does "poison" me, per the fervent wish of one certain board member. It doesn't mean me. Perhaps I wilL Anyway, please know it is gratifying to realize that it's possible for individuals like you and me to ignore political and personal difference in mutual concern for the welfare of the guild. Sincerely, ADELE BUFFINGTON. And this Mr. TavennerMr. TAVENNER. What was the date? 
Mr. FOREMAN. May 24, 1951, sir. COMMUNISM 1759 IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY And I have here a memo from Allen Rivkin, who is the president of the Motion Picture Industry Council, an organization I know you are familiar with, which is dated November 22, 1949, and Allen writes as follows-this was in connection with a public-relations program for the guild: CAL : I can't tell you how pleased I am that you will be on the public-relations pitch with us. I told Gielgud this morning and he was overjoyed. He will call you to get together with himself and Frank Nugent between now and next Monday so we can get the rest of the committee organized for the board's approval. I have some ideas of a newsletter monthly to the membership that Irwin will tell you about. Nugent will tell you what ideas we have on the awards affair for the last of January. Those are our two immediate projects-plus picking a hot special programs subcommittee with a vice chairman on it that has some ideas. Again, my appreciation for your offering to come in and help. ALLEN. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of that, please ? 
Mr. FOREMAN. It was 1949.
Mr. COHN. November 22, 1949. I would just like to say another word or two.
Mr. WALTER. Before you proceed, may I see that first letter ? 
Mr. COHN. You want the original?
Mr. WALTER. I think they should be marked as exhibits.
Mr. COHN. Would you like to see the original and have it marked?
Mr. WALTER. No. I would like to look at the copy.
Mr. FOREMAN. Can I continue, Mr. Tavenner? 
Mr. WALTER. All right; proceed.
Mr. FOREMAN. Thank you, sir. I understand that Karl Tunberg, the president of the guild, has asked for a voluntary subpena before the committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. I can't hear you.
Mr. FOREMAN. I said, I understood that Karl Tunberg, who is the president of the guild, has asked for a voluntary subpena before this committee in order to tell the committee about the guild in connection with the things that have
Mr. TAVENNER. I may say to you that during the course of our hearings in Washington, a telegram was received from the president of the guild who stated that inasmuch as the name of the Screen Writers' Guild had been mentioned so frequently during the hearings there he desired the opportunity to appear before the committee.
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir; I know, because I was on the board.
Mr. WALTER. I think it is only fair that he be permitted to come in and make a statement.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think so, too.
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, as I say, I don't know whether he will or not, and that is up to you, but if he does, I feel very confident that Mr. Tunberg will tell you that my actions as a board member have only been in the best interest of the guild. I was elected for a 1-year term in 1949 and reelected for a 2-year term in 1950. I am very concerned with the good name of the guild. It is a very good guild. I told you when I started that my first screen play was sold for $425, less agent's fee, and that was divided among two fellows, and the second one for $300. That was because the guild was not strong, and we little fellows had no chance. The amount of-I just can't tell you what went on, and I am very proud of being a guild member, 1760 and I want nothing but the best for the guild. It has some very fine people in it.
Mr. T.VENNER. Well, now, will you please answer my question, which was whether or not you have ever publicly renounced membership in the Communist Party. 
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, I have never admitted that I was a member of the Communist Party. I decline to answer your questions on that subject. However, the Hollywood Reporter, shortly after September 11, carried a story about the loyalty oath of the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild and carried the names of the members o-f the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild at that time.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Now, do you deny that you were ever a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I decline to answer that, sir, on. the grounds I stated above.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, the first letter that you read, that of May 24, 1951, referred to a personal difference. What was the personal difference referred to?
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, actually, there was none, to my knowledge, because 
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. 
Mr. FOREMAN. I'm sorry.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little.
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes; I will try, sir. I assume that the personal and political differences that Adele mentions were the fact that she was in support of slate candidates and I ran as an independent. This is interguild politics. This is my assumption; as to the personal differences, there were none because we hadn't yet met up until shortly before this.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a matter of fact, there had been a very distinct cleavage within the Screen Writers' Guild, had there not, between two groups; isn't that true ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, I must tell you that if I say it is true, it is not from personal knowledge, necessarily, because up until the time I went into the Army I was a very unimportant guy in Hollywood and in the guild, as well. Now, I would go to meetings and listen to speeches. It was wonderful, because some writers can speak very well.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think probably you are overmodest.
Mr. FOREMAN. No, sir; I am not. I went into the Army, and when I came back from the Army I was told that there was a middle-of-theroad element in the guild, and I have never been concerned with any cleavages or anything in the guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. WVell, were youMr. COHN. Would you excuse me a minute?
Mr. FOREMAN. My counsel wants to talk to me. (Conference between the witness and counsel.)
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, my counsel feels it is important for me to tell you that when I ran for the board, I ran without supporters and without a campaign, and my first campaign, I sent out two letters, two personal letters written by myself, as I remember, having mostly to do with the contract situation and the independent writer, and my second running for the office. I think I should also tell you that the nominating committee of the guild wished me to run for president,  1761 or some office like that, and I declined. I just didn't have the time. I ran without any support, no letters, no campaign. I just had my name on the list of candidates.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of an independent group within the guild known as the progressive caucus? (Witness confers with counsel.)
Mr. FOREMAN. The progressive caucus was, as I recall it, a very loose kind of thing, and I can't say that I ever was a member or was not a member. It had a very broad representation in the guild. People of all kinds with political ideas. It may be, Mr. Tavenner, that I attended one or two meetings of the caucus, but it wasn't very important to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make financial contributions to that group ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I don't think so, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Isn't it a fact that the members of that group, the progressive caucus, were in opposition to what was known within the guild as the anti-Communist all-guild group ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, I don't think the all-guild coalition ever called itself the anti-Communist all-guild- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Anti-Communist is merely descriptive.
Mr. FOREMAN. I see. You said it was called that. Pardon me.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to correct that. That was merely descrip- tive of the group that was known as the all-guild group.
Mr. COHN. May we confer for a moment, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. TavennerMr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir? 
Mr. FOREMAN. All I can tell you is that in connection with guild matters, voting on guild matters and voting on slates, I voted for the candidates right down the line on the political ticket on the basis of the men I thought would make the best men and on the issues that faced the guild. I acted as a board member to the best interests of the guild, according to my lights, and I am too busyMr. TAVENNER. YOU are not answering my questions.
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, I really can't answer your question. I may not be clear as to what it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. I'm sorry, I could not understand you. If you will just raise your voice a little?
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir; I will try. 
Mr. TAVENNER. It gets down to a point lower than the microphones in front of you and I am unable to hear you.
Mr. FOREMAN. I'm sorry, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. If I may suggest it, if you attempt to talk to me directly rather than concentrating on talking into the microphone, I think we will have less difficulty.
Mr. FOREMAN. Thank you. You know, you are much more experi- enced than I am at this and it is a little bit-Mr. TAVENNER. I doubt that.
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, I wonder if you would mind repeating the question about the progressive caucus and the all-guild coalition, because I just don't remember it now. 1762 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked you whether or not the group known as the progressive group within the guild was in opposition to what is generally referred to as the anti-Communist group known as the allguild committee?
Mr. FOREMAN-.. Well, Mr. Tavenner, as I recall, there was opposition on matters that affected guild policy and, as I also recall, I talked to people on all sides of any questions in the guild, on any matters relative to the guild, so that I would know how to act about the guild. I hope that answered your question. I always make up my own mind. Does that answer your question, sir ?
Mr.'TAVENNER. No, it doesn't; but I will let it go at that.
Mr. FOREMAN. Thank you, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Except that I would like to ask you whether or not you were affiliated in any manner with the group known as the progressive caucus.
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, sir, other than attending a meeting or two that I have already described, the answer is "No." Can I tell you why, sir, if I may ? May I-well, I meanMr. TAVENNER. What was your question?
Mr. FOREMAN. May I elaborate on this for a moment? I have been so busy since 1947 that, actually, even being a member of the board has been a tremendous chore. I just haven't had the time to get involved in many things, so, as a guild member and as a board member, I have done the best I could, but I just haven't had time for meetings and things like that. The way we make pictures, it is a kind of a 23-hour-a-day routine, and I happen to love to make pictures, and I give it everything I've got.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you referred to the fact that you sent two personal letters in the campaign for the position that you occupied. I believe this was back in November 1949.
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you send those letters to the entire membership of the organization ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I don't remember, Mr. Tavenner. I sent them. You know- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, isn't it a fact that you did obtain a mailing list from Albert Maltz ? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. FOREMAN. NO, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you obtain the mailing list?
Mr. FOREMAN. Frankly, I don't recall. It is my understanding-it was my understanding at the time-that the mailing lists were open to all candidates from the guild office, and it was only on that basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. If it was open to all members, how did you obtain it?
Mr. FOREMAN. Actually, I don't remember. It may be that I walked in and asked for it. I couldn't-I just don't remember. There were plenty of lists floating around, anyway. I just don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, in the event that the mailing list was not open to the membership, generally, as I have had it indicated to me that it was not, what explanation would you make or do you desire to make of your obtaining the mailing list?
Mr. FOREMAN. Then I couldn't make any explanation, sir. COMMUNISM IN 1763 MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Was that in connection with the performance of your duties as a member of the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of having taken a loyalty oath.
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, it was a voluntary oath, Mr. Tavenner. There was some feeling on the part of some members of the board that it would be good for the guild if the board members did so voluntarily.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was not that the subject of a long dispute and rather bitter fight?
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, it sure was; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you not violently oppose the taking of such an oath?
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, I was in opposition to a great deal of some of the discussion going on and I was not the only one, I want to assure you. A great many people, including, I believe, Mr. Spiegelgass, George Seaton, F. Hugh Herbert, Oliver Garrett-I am sure these names are all well known to you-opposed the loyalty oath for the membership on principle. I opposed it, too. Writers, as you know, are prone to be unorthodox in many of their political opinionsMr. TAVENNER. Pardon me. I didn't ask you any questionMr. FOREMAN. Oh, sorry.
Mr. TAVENNER. About loyalty oaths by members. I asked you about loyalty oaths by persons who were members of the executive board.
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir, and the record will show that I voted in favor of the resolution as passed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you register your opposition to it until you found you were the only one who was in opposition ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, it might seem that way. There were other members of the board who were not present. The point was that when the resolution was finally written to my satisfaction, I voted in favor of the resolution.
Mr. TAVENNER. What amendment was there made to the resolution that brought you around to the point where you were willing to sign it ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I wish I had the resolution here, and maybe you have it there. I don't know, but as I recall the final form of the resolution that I voted in favor of went something like this: "I am not a member of the Communist Party or any party dedicated to the overthrow of the United States Government by force and violence and by"-and I can't give you the connective that went, but it went on to say that the executive board of the guild would resist any efforts to impose a loyalty oath on the membership of the guild, itself. In essence, that was the
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that clause the amendment to which you referred ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, that had nothing to do with you signing the loyalty oath as a member of the executive board. I fail to see the importance of the amendment with respect to your willingness to sign the oath, yourself.
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, sir, I will try to clarify that for you. It seemed to me at the time that there were certain people within the guild who were very anxious to impose their own particular standards upon what they thought was loyalty on the other members of the guild. 81595-51-pt. 5-9 1764 This is a pretty broad field of opinion, you know. It also seemed to me this was not necessary. I may not agree with you, sir, or any other member of the committee, but I do agree with a great many other people, and there was a difference of opinion whether or not loyalty oaths are a good thing or a bad thing in principle, whether they are American or un-American. I felt this: I had the feeling that a loyalty oath brought to the membership of the guild, itself, might well split the guild wide open, and I wanted to keep the guild together, and it was on that basis that I acted as I did. I had no objection to signing the oath, itself, but I didn't want to be pushed into anything by anybody. I like to do things on my own.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, how many members of the guild at that time were known to you to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I decline to answer that, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did that matter have anything to do with your holding out ? 
Mr. FOREMAN. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is, did your knowledge of, or possible knowl- edge of, the identity of Conmmunist members in the group have anything to do with your action requiring this amendment before you would support it? ('At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. FOREMAN. Absolutely not, sir. I was very much concerned, be- cause what had happened out at the University of California, the big smell in the papers-I didn't want the guild to get involved in anythink like that any more, if I have made myself clear and I hope I have. In other words, sir, you probably remember that about that time the University of California board of regents had fired a great many professors that refused to sign loyalty oaths, and it was a big newspaper story, and I certainly don't know whether it did the university any good or any harm, but I felt that the Screen Writers' Guild had probably been in the papers enough and we ought to get down to guild business.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as the result of all these matters, the procedure was adopted for the officers of the guild to sign the loyalty oath, that that was the loyalty oath that you referred to in the early part of your testimony as having been signed by you on September 11, 1950; is that correct?
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask you whether or not you were the last person of the group to sign the loyalty oath ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I don't know. Now, I don't know. I don't think I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask you whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party the day before you signed that oath?
Mr. FOREMAN. Since I am-I decline to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. You decline to answer? 
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive instructions from the Communist Party to the effect that you would not be considered a member of the Communist Party as a device which would permit you to execute such an oath I  1765 
Mr. FOREMAN. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become a member of the Communist Party the day after you signed the oath or at any subsequent time?
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Tavenner, when I mentioned the oath, I told you the oath was true when I made it and has been true and is true today and at all times. I mean, in reference to any of this.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle? 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Foreman, assuming that you are not familiar with Public Law 601, which is the law under which this committee functions, I wish to state that our definite assignment by Congress, which is your Congress the same as it is mine, is that we shall investigate subversive and un-American activities. In that investigation our attention has been called to the fact that the Communist Party in America, in its membership, has subversive people. In other words, people under Webster's definition who are willing to overthrow, to overturn, to use forceful means to overthrow our Government. We have evidence by FBI agents, undercover agents in Communist cells to the fact that it was actually discussed in certain Communist cells, ways and means of getting firearms to use when and if the forceful revolution was directed from Communist Russia. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. Now, I have made that statement to you as one man to another so you will have the background of my next question. With that statement by me, your statement that you took a loyalty oath on September 11, 1950, you signed it voluntarily as one of the directors of the Screen Guild, coupled with your refusal to tell us how long before that, if at all, you had been a Communist, inferentially leaves in my mind that there was a time when you were a Communist. I am not charging you with any bad faith or lack of good faith when you signed the oath, understand, but inferentially at least in my mind it leaves a vacuum there about which you are unwilling to discuss whether or not you were a Communist. Now, sir, believing that you are just as anxious to protect our form of govern- ment and our democratic way of life as I am, why can't you come to the step and help us in our Study of subversive people and programs? I am not asking you to tattle-tale or snitch, but how about yourself, can't you help us from your experience to make this study? Is that an unfair question ? I don't mean it to be. 
Mr. COHN. May we confer for a moment? 
Mr. DOYLE. Yes.
Mr. FOREMAN (after conferring with counsel). Mr. Doyle, I think that is a fair question. As much of the hearing as I have followed I think you are a very fair man. However, I have already answered questions of this nature to the best of my ability. You know my position. I believe that this committee knows far more about Communist activities than I ever could. But for your information, sir, I hope you will believe this, if I knew anyone who now or ever has treasonist intentions toward the United States of America and its form of government or its Constitution, I would consider it not only my duty but my. privilege to report it to the nearest authorities. 1766 I am afraid you will have to draw any inference you must. However, I also ask you to judge upon my particular contributions to Americanism and in the pictures that I write and produce.
Mr. DOYLE. I, of course, as the father of a boy who gave his life in the same war that you were in, honor you for any service that you performed while you were in uniform. But I know so much now about the activities of the Communist Party in America and in Russia that I can't honor men and women who were in the Communist Party. Knowing that its purposes are subversive and knowing that 'they take no pledge of allegiance to other than the Soviet Union I just can't come to the point of understanding, shall I say, the position that you take inferentially at least, in my mind, when you have rendered such great service in uniform. And yet in civilian clothes you don't come to the point of helping your United States Congress to uncover subversive programs. I want to urge you, Foreman, we know of your great ability and your splendid service to the Armed Forces-we know this voluntary pledge-but I want to say again that inferentially when you don't at least tell us what you know about the Communist Party-leave names out if you will, as far as my questions are concerned, leave all names out of any Communists that you know for the purpose of my questioning. What do you know about the functions of the Communist Party, if anything, that would help us get at the problem ? 'Is that a fair question? I am not asking you to use any names of any of your associates.
Mr. COHN. You don't mind if we confer ?
Mr. WALTER. Go ahead. 
Mr. DOYLE. We always want every witness to have counsel and use it.
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Doyle? 
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, Mr. Foreman?
Mr. FOREMAN. First, I have never taken an oath of allegiance to any other country but the United States of America.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank God for that.
Mr. FOREMAN. Well, sir, I am an American, I was born here and I love this country. I love it as much as any man on this committee. It is very difficult to prove it. There is one way to prove it, and it is to go out and get killed, because talk is very cheap, or you can wrap yourself in the American flag. I love this country, I have always supported its Constitution and the American way of life.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Foreman, you are not on trial for anything, we are seeking information.
Mr. FOREMAN. I beg your pardon.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle, you have violated the 3-minute rule. 
Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Foreman, are you still a member of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, I am, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. How many known or self-admitted Communists are members of the Screen Writers' Guild? 
Mr. FOREMAN. I wouldn't have any idea, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know any self-admitted members of the Com- munist Party, or others who are members of the Communist Party
Mr. FOREMAN. I don't, sir.  INDUSTRY 1767 
Mr. JACKSON. On the question of the oath which was proposed to be taken by all members of the Screen Writers' Guild, do I understand the original oath as proposed would have extended to all of the members of the guild ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Jackson, this goes back to this last year. I really couldn't tell you the whole content of the meeting. Maybe you know more about it than I do, but I can't give you the whole content.
Mr. JACKSON. I will give you my understanding of the oath controversy, and that was that it hinged largely on whether or not the phrase should remain in the oath to be taken by the members of the Screen Writers' Guild that they had never been a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. FOREMAN. I think you have been misinformed, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. That is possible. There is a lot of misinformation available for anyone who wants to take advantage of it.
Mr. FOREMAN. That is quite true. Mr. JacksonMr. JACKSON. Just a moment, let me ask several more questions here. It is my further understanding that you personally opposed loyalty oaths.
Mr. FOREMAN. Would you like an answer ?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, please. 
Mr. FOREMAN. My feeling is that we are now engaged in a war of ideas at this time, that ideas should and must find their way into the common market place and will be accepted or rejected by people. I have faith in the American public and I have a feeling that the imposition of oaths somehow smacks of police state methods and I kind of don't like it.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you realize, sir, that every one of the 80,000 casualties in Korea has taken an oath of loyalty to this country and that every man who has served in the Armed Forces of this country has taken a loyalty oath, that everyone who goes abroad for travel takes a loyalty oath, every member of this committee at the beginning of every Congress raises his right hand and takes a loyalty oath? As far as I personally am concerned I would just as soon take one every morning with a vitamin pill. The matter of the oath, you are quite right, is a matter of personal conscience. Would you take an oath of loyalty as a condition of employment? 
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, of course.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you take a loyalty oath as a condition of obtaining a passport for travel abroad ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Yes, sir. If it is the law of the land, of course I would.
Mr. JACKSON. But you would still object to taking an oath unless it was literally crammed down your throat as the law of the land?
Mr. FOREMAN. That isn't an exact statement, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. You yourself made the "law of the land" statement. You would take a loyalty oath because it was the law to take it. Would you take an oath of loyalty to the United States voluntarily and out of a deep pride in our institutions ?
Mr. FOREMAN. Sure; yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. You would?
Mr. FOREMAN. I certainly would.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, I have read the oath that was proposed for the Screen Writers' Guild and I find nothing in it that would in 1768 INDUSTRY any way limit the scope of your artistry, that would in any way affect your religious rights, or any right that is guaranteed under the Constitution. I personally fail to see the objection to the oath proposed.
Mr. FOREMAN. I took the oath, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. But you also interposed objections to having anyone else in the membership take the oath. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. Did the membership itself vote on the question of whether or not a loyalty oath should be taken by the membership or was this an action of the board?
Mr. FOREMAN. You know, I don't quite remember that. It seems to me that prior to this board meeting a resolution was brought up before the guild membership at a late hour, and I think I had left before the resolution came up. The general feeling I got, both from members or from everybody-that includes the members of the allguild coalition-that they were very much against the submission of a resolution for a loyalty oath to the general membership. And I can swear to that. So if you say, "Was it ever proposed to the membership on that basis?" it was. It was never brought up again. I must tell you that I voluntarily signed an oath. I am in favor of voluntary oaths for people who want to make them.
Mr. JACKSON. Let me say in conclusion, Mr. Chairman, that the ultimate test of the credibility of a witness before the committee, as far as I am concerned, is the extent to which he is willing to cooperate with the committee in giving full details as to not only the place of activities, but also the names of those who participated with him in the activities within the Communist Party-and I am not relating this to your membership or nonmembership, Mr. Foreman-I personally will place no credence in the testimony of any witness who is not prepared to come before this committee and fully cooperate with respect to the activities within the Communist Party. In that connection, Mr. Chairman, I ask permission to insert in the record at this point an editorial from the Herald Express of Saturday, September 22. Shall I read it, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. WALTER. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. It says: Let's not forget the loyal Americans. As Hollywood and the motion-picture world is rocked and shocked by revelations of the activities of Communists and fellow travelers who seek the destruction of America, it would be well to pause and to pay tribute to those loyal Americans who dared to sacrifice their very livelihood in the films in an effort to fight back the Red menace when first it reared its ugly head. Today the House Committee on Un-American Activities is doing a splendid job of bringing Red traitors out of hiding-and exposing the stooges of those who are taking their orders from Moscow. Good Americans everywhere are cooperating fully with the investigation. But we should not forget the sacrifice of the few who did their best to fight communism in the industry from the very start. We should remember Jim McGuinness, who really gave his life to the cause. We should remember Morrie Riskind, Richard Macauley, Jack Moffitt, Fred Niblo, Jr., and half a dozen others who knew that their jobs in the movies were at stake-and who didn't hesitate to do what they felt was their patriotic duty. So it is that today as we cooperate, approve, and join in the long-overdue housecleaning in the motion-picture industry, let us not forget those who saw the danger long ago-and dared to fight it to the best of their ability. 
Mr. WALTER. I have been very much disturbed by reports that I received over the week end that some of the men who came forward  1769 in 1947 and testified, in addition to which they gave us very valuable information, have apparently been blacklisted, which would indicate to me that either the producers or the employment agencies are punishing these people for doing what in their judgment is the American thing to do. And it is very, very disturbing.
Mr. FOREMAN. Mr. Walter, please don't be disturbed because that information is absolutely incorrect. Now, don't take it from me, take it from Allen Rivkin, the head of the Motion Picture Industry Council; take it from any witness you like, it is not so.
Mr. WALTER. Of course, I intend to pursue the matter.
Mr. FOREMAN. Forgive me for raising my voice.
Mr. WALTER. That is quite all right. I intend to find out whether or not that is the fact, and if it is, why, of course, we are going to have to subpena some of the employers and find out whether they are punishing loyal Americans.
Mr. COHN. Forgive us for one moment, sir.
Mr. FOREMAN (after conferring with counsel). Mr. Walter, just this. Writing for the movies is an extremely unsteady profession, the competition is very keen, and you know about the unemployment. But again I have made my statement on that. Please investigate it more fully. It is not true. All I can tell you now, at least, in terms of my company, I have told you that I am producing a picture that Edward Dmytryk will direct, Adolphe Menjou, a member of the Motion Picture Alliance, is going to appear in that picture of ours. I know Gary Cooper is doing it, and he is doing it because it is a good picture and a good, honest, American picture. But, really, sir, you have been misinformed.
Mr. WALTER. Any further questions, Mr. Jackson ?
Mr. JACKSON. Just one more question. In connection with Mr. Dmytryk, whose testimony was among the finest and most complete ever received by this committee, do you think that Mr. Dmytryk was doing the American thing, the right thing in coming before this committee and giving us the benefit of his knowledge regarding communism and Communist activities?
Mr. FOREMAN (after conferring with counsel). I don't think it is very important as to what I think, Mr. Jackson. I think it is important to Mr. Dmytryk, what he thinks.
Mr. JACKSON. I think it is very important what you think, but I shan't press the matter.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Potter, do you have any questions?
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Foreman, you have by your testimony here this morning endeavored to give the impression that since the day that you took your loyalty oath you are a good, loyal, American citizen and that we are now in a war of ideas. While it is true it is a war of ideas, it is also a war of bullets, as many men are being drafted today to fight international communism abroad. You have information which would be helpful to us in fighting a portion of the international conspiracy here at home and we are asking you for intelligence information. As an American citizen you have certain duties and respon- sibilities and I feel that you are not carrying out your obligations as a citizen when you fail to aid not this committee, not Congress, but the American people in better understanding the Communist menace for which we are drafting men to put their very life in jeopardy in Korea to combat that menace today. 1770 
Mr. CosIN. May we confer?
Mr. POTTER. Yes. (after conferring with counsel). Mr. Potter, I want
Mr. FOREAr. you to know that I listen to you with great deference and respect, and I know what your war record is, in addition to your being a Congressman, an official of the Government. I try to be a good American in my daily life and in my work. I think that my Americanism is reflected in my work. Perhaps you know I wrote a picture called The Men, about paraplegic veterans, the men who lost the use of their legs and arms in action. The proudest moment of my life, Mr. Potter, was when those men made me an honorary member of the Paralyzed War Veterans of America. You must judge me. or infer by what I do, sir. I can only tell you once more than if I knew of anyone thinking or committing treason against this country I would get down to the FBI just as quickly as I could.
Mr. POTTER. In deference to the paraplegic men who so honored you, and you honored them in writing the story for their picture, I am afraid, Mr. Foreman, that they are disappointed in your testimony today. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. labor the point. I don't want to be- 
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Foreman, you have testified that if you knew anyone who was engaged in any activities looking to the overthrow of the Government through force arid violence, you would consider it not only your duty but your privilege to report that immediately. When did you come to that opinion ?
Mr. FOREMAN. All my life, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Didn't you realize at any time at all that the Com- munist Party was part of a conspiracy to obtain control of the world ?
Mr. FOREMAN- (after conferring with counsel). Mr. Walter, I fol- lowed some of the testimony of this hearing and it seems to me that most of the voluntary witnesses who appeared here and who were formerly Communists themselves did not ever seem to feel that they had been engaged in any kind of conspiracy.
Mr. WALTER. I think that is true, and that is just exactly what I am getting around to. There must have come a time when you reached the conclusion that you reached. If you had seen the 11,000,000 people who have been expelled from behind the iron curtain, who are now in the British and American zones in Germany, as I saw them writing the displaced-persons' legislation, and talked with them, you would understand it. It is too bad that these American Communists, these bleeding hearts, these well-meaning people who have an idea that they can't, within the framework of our Constitution, bring about the social corrections that are so obviously needed, can't understand just exactly what the score is. Now, you at sometime or other must have reached the conclusion that being a member of the Communist Party wasn't going to amount to anything and I would like to know when it was, because actually you were subpenaed not because we wanted to ask you whether or not you were a Communist, not because of the desire on the part of any member of this committee to place people in a position where they might be sent to jail for contempt of the committee, but every witness who has appeared before this committee was subpenaed because he had certain information that we thought would be  1771 INDUSTRY of value in our deliberations. We had an idea that you might explain to us how the factions in your guild operated before the election, because we are interested in knowing how far the Commies went in an attempt to control the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. FOREMAN (after conferring with counsel). Mr. Walter, I have tried to make it clear that I wasn't a member of any faction of the guild. You see, up until very recently in Hollywood, Mr. Walter, the matters of importance to a writer were his last credits. And up until a few years ago there was nobody interested in getting into any faction of the guild or anything. Since I have become inactive in the last few years I have gone my own way, and I think if you get testimony from people on the board of the guild they will tell you that.
Mr. WALTER. You testified that you were too busy to pay much attention to the activities but still you weren't so occupied that you didn't have time to make a fight on this question of the loyalty oath.
Mr. FOREMAN. I didn't make a fight about it, Mr. Walter. It came up at a board meeting and I was present at the board meeting. I do the best I can. I go to as many meetings as I can. I am on leave of absence now because I am shooting a picture.
Mr. WALTER. Do you know anything about the efforts that the Communists made to take over the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. FOREMAN. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Did you participate with any other people in an attempt to place members on the board of the guild ?
Mr. FOREMAN. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Anything further, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. IS there any reason why the witness should not be excused from further attendance?
Mr. TAVENNER. There is not.
Mr. WALTER. The witness is excused. Who is your next witness, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Reuben Ship. 
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Ship, will you raise your right hand, please. Do you swear the testimony you are about to give shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. SHIP. I do.
Mr. WATER. Are you represented by counsel, Mr. Ship ?
Mr. SHIP. Can we get the photographs over?
Mr. KENNY. I think I can fill in the record in the meantime. 
Mr. Ship is represented by myself, Robert W. Kenny, and Ben Margolis. (Representative Charles E. Potter left the hearing room.) TESTIMONY OF REUBEN SHIP, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT W. KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS 