Mr. DARNELL. Carter Darnell.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted that the witness is accompanied by the same counsel who appeared with the two preceding witnesses. When and where were you born, Mr. Darnell?
Mr. DARNELL. I was born in Piano, P-l-a-n-o, Ill., 1920.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mr. DARNELL. I reside in Newport Beach.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in California ?
Mr. DARNELL. Since approximately 1927.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. DARNELL. I am a contractor. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly what your educational training has been ?
Mr. DARNELL. I am substantially a college graduate without a degree. I hesitate to say what my education has been because it puts me in a rather peculiar position in this room. I was educated as a musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. There is certainly nothing to be ashamed of in stating that. Since you have said that you are, I want to ask if you know anything about Communist Party activities among any group of musicians.
Mr. DARNELL. I respectfully decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. COOPER. Mr. Chairman, may we have the same understanding, that if he should decline again it will be on the same ground?
Mr. MOTLDER. Yes. At any time the witness claims the privilege of declining to answer and states for the same reason it will be understood that it will be for the reason just given by the witness.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you enter into your profession of contractor?
Mr. DARNELL. I entered the contracting business in approximately 1948, Mr. Tavenner, and I can't remember the exact date.
Mr. TAVENNER. You said you were educated as a musician. Were you a professional musician at any time prior to 1948?
Mr. DARNELL. Unfortunately, no, sir. I guess I just didn't have what it takes.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you complete your education? In what year?
Mr. DARNELL. It is difficult to say. The reason I spent so many years going to night school, I can't remember when I stopped. I went to UCLA extension at nights for a great many years. I can't give you the exact date I stopped going.
Mr. TAVENNER. What employment did you have prior to 1948
Mr. DARNELL. I was employed by an oil company and a railroad company except during the time I was in the Army.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that in construction work ?
Mr. DARNELL. No, sir. That was administrative work.
Mr. MOULDER. In the Army? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3729 
Mr. DARNELL. Prior to the time I went in the Army I was employed by an oil company and a railroad company.
Mr. MOUDER. I believe the record should show what service you had in the armed services. Will you give us the information about that?
Mr. DARNELL. I was overseas in France, Belgium, and Germany for almost 2 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your employment since 1948?
Mr. DAENELL. It has been substantially all in the construction industry.
Mr. TAVENNER. By whom have you been employed since 1948 ?
Mr. DARNELL. May I confer with my counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DARNELL. I decline to answer for the same reason. Shall I speak up a little bit? I am afraid I get a hum in this microphone if I talk too loud.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let's run that risk.
Mr. DARNELL. I decline to answer for the same reason, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you begin your present employment, that of a contractor?
Mr. DARNELL. I don't quite understand the question. I have been in and around the construction business since approximately 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you associated at this time with Mr. Samuel Berland in the construction or building and development business?
Mr. DARNELL. I respectfully decline for the same reason, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. The Chair directs you to answer that question. I can't conceive of any reason how you could claim that being associated with the gentleman or any other person named in that particular business could possibly incriminate you. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DARNELL. I decline on the same grounds, sir.
Mr. TAvENNER. What has been the general nature of your contracting business in the past 3 years? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DARNELL. I respectfully refuse to answer the question because, upon advice of counsel, I believe it is beyond the scope of the investigation, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been a member of the Communist Party at any time since January 1, 1953 ?
Mr. DARNELL. I decline for the same reason, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Communist Party now?
Mr. DARNELL. NO, sir.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Were you a member of the Communist Party on January 1, 1956?
Mr. DARRELL. I decline for the same reason, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time process or subpena was served on you for your appearance before this committee? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DARNELL. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was process served on you? Can you recall the approximate date? 3730 COQMvUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DARNELL. I believe it was on the 6th, around the 6th of March, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on the 1st day of March ? SMr. DARNELL. I decline for the same reason, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. But on the 6th you were not?
Mr. DARNELL. IS that a question?
Mr, TAVENNER. I am repeating what I understood your testimony to be.
Mr. DARNELL. I affirm that testimony, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What day was it, between the 1st day of March and the 6th day of March, that you ceased to be a member of the Communist Party? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. COOPER. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes.
Mr. COOPER. May I make a suggestion to Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I am always open to suggestion.
Mr. COOPER. Would you ask him if he has been a member of the Communist Party in the last 3 years?
Mr. TAVENNER. I did.
Mr. COOPER. Will you ask him that question again?
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked him if he had been a member of the Communist Party at any time since January 1, 1953. If the witness desires to change his testimony and explain it I would be very happy for him to do so. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DARNELL. The answer is "No," sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't understand.
Mr. COOPER. The answer is "No," Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. When I asked you that question a few moments ago you refused to answer.
Mr. COOPER. Might I suggest, Mr. Tavenner, that that was because of a misunderstanding. He discussed it with me and cleared up his misunderstanding.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to know if that is his explanation.
Mr. DARNELL. Yes, sir.
Mr. MOaLDER. May I ask you this question: Regardless of whether you are or not, or ever have been a member of the Communist Party, what is your opinion and belief for or against the philosophy and the objectives of the Communist Party ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DARNELL. Would you repeat that question, please?
Mr. MOULDER. Would the reporter read the question back, please? (The pending question was read by the reporter.)
Mr. DARNELL. I believe in the Government of the United States and all that it stands for, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. That is a very good answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1948 were you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. DARNELL. I decline on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you take part in any plan of the Communist Party to assist the Independent Progressive Party in California, either COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3731 by your registration in that party or otherwise aiding and assisting the work of that party?
Mr. DARNELL. I decline on the same grounds, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you register on the 27th day of February 1948 as a member of the Independent Progressive Party of California, as indicated by a photostatic copy of an affidavit of registration which I hand you, marked "Darnell Exhibit No. 1" for identification? (Document handed to the witness.)
Mr. DARNELL (after examining document). I respectfully decline on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to introduce the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked, "Darnell Exhibit No. 1." (This exhibit is similar to Waddilove exhibit No. 1, p. 3664, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1949?
Mr. DARNELL. I respectfully decline on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1950?
Mr. DARNELL. I respectfully decline on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1951?
Mr. DARNELL. The same grounds.
Mr. MOULDER. Were you at any time a member of the Communist Party prior to the year 1953?
Mr. DARNELL. I decline on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask one specific question. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1952?
Mr. DARKELL. I decline on the same grounds, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your employment in 1952?
Mr. DARNELL. I decline on the same grounds, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DovLE. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. SCHERER. NO questions.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, the committee is in receipt of two telegrams which bear upon one of the principal charges leveled against the committee and the conduct of these hearings, in that it has been alleged by the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms and the organization representing the subpenaed musicians that this was an effort on the part of the committee to enter into a local labor dispute. It has been requested by Mr. Cecil F. Read, vice president of Local 47, American Federation of Musicians, and by'Mr. John Te Groen of the American Federation of Musicians, that these telegrams be read into the record. And, if it is your wish, I will do that at this time.
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, the telegrams will be read into the record at this point. 3732 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. JACKsON. The telegram from Mr. Read is as follows: I have been assured that there is no connection between the present internal struggle of Local 47, A. F. of M., and the investigations being carried on by the House Un-American Activities Committee in Los Angeles. However, I would like to make the following statement so that the record may be complete and clear. I am completely and unalterably opposed to the Communist Party and all that it stands for. From the beginning of my activities in local 47 and the American Federation of Musicians I have excluded from my workers and supporters anyone about who there was the slightest basis for the accusation of Communist or Communist sympathizers. It is unfortunate that the hearings of the House Un-American Activities Committee in Los Angeles follows so closely the hearings and trials that the A. F. of M. has been conducting in local 47. The bylaws of the A. F. of M. provide as follows, quote, Registration in the Communist, Nazi, or Fascist Party or membership in Communist-front organizations shall be deemed sufficient cause for the expulsion of any member, unquote. Any attempt by anyone to tie in any Communist or sympathizers with me or with the overwhelming majority of professional musicians of local 47 whom I represent is completely unjustified. CECIL F. READ, Vice President,Local 47, A. F. of M. The telegram from Mr. John Te. Groen is as follows: A factional fight between a group headed by Cecil Read, vice president of local 47, and a group headed by myself and the other oficers of the local has been in progress for the past several months. This fight originated over certain policies of the American Federation of Musicians and is an international affair. It culminated in an attempt by the Read group to seize control of the local and in the trial of Read and 12 of his followers on charges of dual unionism and violating certain orders of the American Federation of Musicians. In view of the fact that the present controversy is being handled as an international matter within the framework of the federation, I cannot see how your investigation has anything to do with it. Certainly your investigation was not called at our request, and I have no reason to believe that the federation requested it. I respectfully suggest that the content of this telegram be entered into the Congressional Record. JOHN TE. GROEN, President,Local 47, A. F. of M.
Mr. MOULDER. I compliment the gentleman for putting those telegrams in the record at this point.
Mr. DOYLE. I have a letter dated April 2, 1956, from J. Edgar Hoover, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Justice, which I would like to read into the record at this time. I might state that this is in answer to my letter of inquiry to Mr. Hoover. He says: Hon. CLYDEDOYLE, House of Representatives, Washington, D. C. MY DEAB CONGRESSMAN: Your letter of March 29, 1956, has been received, and I do appreciate your interest in my recent testimony before the House Appropriations Subcommittee. Unfortunately, I do not have copies available for distribution, but you may like to make inquiry with the office of the committee for the text. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.) 
Mr. DOYLE (reading): The American people owe a great debt of gratitude to the work over the years of congressional investigating committees. These committees, day after day, secure information vitally needed in the consideration of new legislation. They are indeed indispensable parts of the American legislative process. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3733 Congressional investigating committees, moreover, time after time have brought to the attention of the Nation conditions of fraud, dishonesty, and subversion. This function of awakening public opinion is of the greatest importance in our democratic life-a service not within the province of regularly constituted investigative agencies. Congressional investigating committees, by the nature of the broad powers vested in them, are enabled to search out the facts and make them available to the citizenry. We in the FBI have the highest appreciation for the contributions rendered by congressional investigating committees dealing with un-American activities. Each in its own way is serving the American people. The FBI is strictly a factgathering agency. It does not express opinions or make recommendations on the information it secures. That is the function of other officials of the Government. As the investigative arm of the Department of Justice, the FBI is charged with Sthe duty of investigating violations of the laws of the United States, collecting evidence in cases in which the United States is or may be a party in interest, and performing other duties imposed by law. Its function is not exposure or securing information for legislative purposes. That is the function of the congressional investigating committees. I feel that both the FBI and congressional investigating committees, in the field of internal security, have important roles to play. We are working for the same goal-protecting our great Nation from enemies who seek to destroy us. Our work is not contradictory but mutually helpful. That is as it should be. It was a pleasure to set forth my opinions on this topic, and you may feel free to insert this letter in the Congressional Record. Sincerely yours, J. EDoAR HOOVEs.
Mr. Chairman, manifestly, the reason I corresponded with this famous director, whose opinion, I think, is generally accepted by all patriotic American citizens, is that I occasionally received inquiries as to why there are congressional investigative committees. Why don't we let the FBI do all the work? This is Mr. Hoover's reply to that inquiry.
Mr. MOULDER. Thank you for securing the letter Mr. Doyle. It is a contribution to have it read into the record. Are you ready to proceed with the next witness, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. Milton Kestenbaum, come forward, please.
Mr. MOULDER. Would you hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give before this committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you, God?
Mr. KESTENBAUM. I do. TESTIMONY OF MILTON KESTENBAUM, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ARTHUR A. BROOKS, JR. 