Mr. JAMES. Daniel Lewis James.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born?
Mr. JAMES. In Kansas City, Mo., January 14,1911.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession ?
Mr. JAMES. I am a free-lance writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your training for your occupation ?
Mr. JAMES. I attended a private school in Kansas City. I went on to Andover Academy for a year and graduated from Yale University.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what was the year of your graduation?
Mr. JAMES. 1933. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your record of employment?
Mr. JAMES. I started out rather slowly as a writer, sir. My first couple of years after getting out of college, I was a traveling salesman, which I hope isn't too incriminating. I was a clerk. I began writing in 1935, or 1936. The first few years were extremely difficult, learning my craft and so forth. In 1938 I came here to Hollywood, was employed in an independent studio as a sort of junior writer-  1623 assistant to a producer. After that I wrote a play called Winter Soldiers, which was produced in New York City in the fall of 1942. This was then sold to Edward Small. I did a screen play on it but the movie was-the screen play script was shelved. I then engaged with my wife in working on her original story of what turned out to be a musical comedy, Bloomer Girl. Since that period my fortunes have been rather bad. I have written a novel, which was not published, a couple of plays, numerous short stories, and so forth.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. James, in the course of the testimony today you have been identified by a witness who appeared here, Mr. Martin Berkeley, as having been a member of the Communist Party. There has been no testimony offered here that you are now a member of the Communist Party. If it is true that you were a member of the Communist Party you would be in a position to assist this committee in the investigation it is now conducting, so my first question is, have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. JAMES. I would like to answer that by saying that I am not a member of the Communist Party. However, as to the second part of your question I will stand on the fifth amendment and refuse to answer this question because I feel it could incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, actually, I asked you only one question, whether you had ever been a member. You state you are not now a member?
Mr. JAMES. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you withdraw from the Communist Party?
Mr. JAMES. I would have to decline, sir, on the same ground.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1947 during the conduct of the hearings before this committee?
Mr. JAMES. I will have to decline again, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. After those hearings were completed were you a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. JAMES. I will have to decline, sir. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. James, bear in mind that so far as this committee is concerned you are not under any compulsion to decline.
Mr. JAMES. Yes. Did I say "must"
Mr. WOOD. You said you must.
Mr. JAMES. Sorry. 
Mr. WOOD. You have to. The question is, do you decline for reasons stated ?
Mr. JAMES. Yes; I do decline.
Mr. WooD. The reporter can't get your nod in the record.
Mr. JAMES. I see. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the ground upon which you refuse to answer the question as to whether or not you have been a member of the Communist Party at any time?
Mr. JAMES. The ground, sir, is that an American citizen, as I understand it, under the fifth amendment to the Constitution, is not compelled to testify against himself in such a way as to be incriminated, prosecuted in a Federal court-something. I am not a lawyer, sir. I think that should be sufficient.
Mr. TAVENNER. As I stated a few moments ago to another witness,
Mr. Dmytryk testified at length in the hearings conducted in Wash8155-51-pt. 4--15 1624 ington regarding the part that Communist-front organizations played in promoting the principles and the purposes of the Communist Party, particularly with regard to the matter of recruitment into the Communist Party. Of course, as the term indicates, all persons who are members of front organizations are not members of the Communist Party, otherwise they would be adjuncts in the Communist Party. N ow, I would like to know if you were a member of any organization which has been cited as a Communist-front organization, and if you were, whether or not you would give this committee the benefit of such information as you have as to how you were recruited into the party, the purposes for which you were recruited into the party, and-into the front organization, and how that organization functioned.
Mr. JAMES. Sir, to the best of my knowledge, I am not a member of any Communist-front organization, nor am I sympathetic to communism. At the same time, I must decline to answer this question that you have put to me on the grounds stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, that is a rather strange answer. If the ground for your refusal to testify is that you fear incrimination and, at the same time, you state that you are not a member of the Communist Party, how can your testimony on that subject tend to incriminate you?
Mr. JAMEs. I don't believe I am forced to specify the area in which I feel an answer could incriminate me, sir. I understand it is my right, if it is my honest and sincere feeling that it would incriminate me-it is my right to decline to answer the question.
Mr. WOOD. Pardon the suggestion. As I understood the witness, his answer was not responsive to the question. The question was asked him, as I understood, whether or not he had ever been a member of any front organization so designated. His answer was that he is not now a member of any such organization, that he knows of, which is not entirely responsive.
Mr. JAMES. That was part of my answer, sir. I followed that by declining to answer Mr. Tavenner's question.
Mr. WOOD. Aside from that answer, you decline to answer the question entirely except to that extent that you are not now a member?
Mr. JAMES. Yes. 
Mr. WOOD. That is the way I understood it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter?
Mr. WALTER. No questions. 
Mr. WooD. You, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. James, I think just an instant ago in answer to counsel's question about three questions back-I wrote down here that you said, "I am not in sympathy with communism." Didn't you so state?
Mr. JAMES. I did sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, have you ever been in sympathy with com- munism ? 
Mr. JAMES. I would have to decline to answer that on the previous grounds stated. 
Mr. DOYLE. What do you mean by previous grounds stated?
Mr. JAMES. My rights under the fifth amendment not to answer a question which I feel should incriminate me-might incriminate me.  1625 
Mr. DOYLE. That what?
Mr. JAMES. Not to give an answer which might incriminate me.
Mr. DOYLE. Yes; but that only applies to a criminal prosecution, doesn't it, or a criminal case?
Mr. JAMES. I think it applies, also, sir, to proceedings before this committee. I have been here for some 3 days
Mr. DOYLE. I have noticed you here every day. That led me to ask you this question: If you are not now a member of the Communist Party and not in sympathy with the purpose of communism, why, all this morning and every time that Mr. Berkeley mentioned the name of a Communist, did you make a note of it in the room? I saw you doing so, didn't I?
Mr. JAMES. Yes; I have that list in my pocket right now.
Mr. DOYLE. Why did you make that list?
Mr. JAMES. The reason I made that list, sir, was because I wanted to think of the number of people who were going to be touched by
Mr. Berkeley's testimony, a number of people who would suffer from
Mr. Berkeley's testimony.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you go out and telephone any of them ?
Mr. JAMES. I did not. 
Mr. DOYLE. Did you telephone anyone else in connection with them ?
Mr. JAMES. No, sir. I telephoned to my lawyer to be sure he would be here at my side this afternoon, althoughMr. WUIN.
Mr. DOYLE.
Mr. WuN.
Mr. DOYLE.
Mr. WmIN.
Mr. DOYLE. Apparently-- . We are always glad to have counsel present. Apparently he didn't need any help. I realize he has good legal advice. I am glad to be here. But I couldn't help but notice, Mr. James, that you were doing that and I-in view of your answer that you are not now a Communist, do you want me to understand that you may have been one yesterday ?
Mr. JAMES. Sir, I am sorry you have raised this question, but I shall have to decline to answer this on previous grounds-previously stated grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, you and your wife have been here ever since the hearings have opened. You are both young people, I notice. I am glad you are, because you have more time to serve your country than some of us that are older. That leads me to ask you this question: You heard me ask yesterday and the day before, witnesses whether or not they believed that the purpose of this committee, as assigned to it by the United States Congress, to investigate subversive persons and subversive programs, was an important function. I am sure you heard that, didn't you ? You shook your head. The shorthand writer can't take the shake of your head in his notes.
Mr. JAMES. Yes; I did hear it, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. You heard that. What is your answer to that same question ? 
Mr. JAMES. I am not sure just what the question was, but I am aware of the act of Congress under which this committee operates. At the same time, I have said that I am not sympathetic to commu- nism and I must, to be fair, say that I am not sympathetic to this investigation, not so much in terms of myself or people who come before it as I am in terms of what it could do to contribute to a certain 1626 general hysteria in this country, such as our President has talked about. 1 don't know if I am talking too much, but I am a writer, sir, and I would hate to see any kind of censorship come out of these proceedings. I don't know whether this is at all your intention, but I would hate to see it. I have in my pocket a little brown book. If some of you gentlemen would like to see it, it is in French. Now, this is one of the early editions. It is from my own library.
Mr. DOYLE. May IMr. JAMES. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. I realize that you have come prepared to make a speech, if you have the opportunity, in spite of the fact that you are not in sympathy with communism, you say, but I want to ask you again, if you are being frank and honest with us-and I don't mean to impute anything less than honesty and frankness to you, but if you really are sincere, when you say you are not a Communist, why can't you be equally as sincere instead of claiming the fifth amendment by telling us when you stopped being a Communist, if you ever were? Is that a fair way to put a question ?
Mr. JAMES. Sir, yes, I am standing on what I understand is my right under the fifth amendment. I feel that in addition-incidentally, sir, this takes a considerable amount of courage, though I expect no applause either from this committee, nor from the People's World nor from the Daily Worker. This is a lonely, lonely position, and I assure you that when I am saying that I am not a Communist, I am meaning it.
Mr. DOYLE. I am willing to take your word at a hundred percent face value. You would want me to, because you are under oath.
Mr. JAMES. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DoYLE. But I still don't understand why you, claiming what you claim, that you are not in sympathy with the purposes of com- munism, you are unwilling to help the committee to get into the field of discovering people and programs which are subversive.
Mr. JAMES. Sir, I think the committee-I think it is necessary for there to be an investigation in this country of subversive organizations. At the same time I feel that this committee in its work has frequently in trying to root out the weeds perhaps has rooted out same of the crop, too. Maybe the important parts of the crop.
Mr. DOYLE. My closing word with you, because our time is limited, is two things. First, you have apparently come quite a ways and are willing to state that you are not now a Communist. That, of course, leaves inferentially to me, I am a lawyer, and you have an able lawyer by your side, inferentially, at least, that leaves in my mind the question of how recently you were a Communist, without doubting your statement. Now, I am urging you and your wife, as young people, to come into the area of actively and vigorously helping this congressional committee investigate the field of subversive peoples and programs that you have stated you felt it was necessary to investigate. I heard you also say that maybe we are doing some injury. I assure you we are not trying to. We are trying to avoid that sort of thing. But I also want you to believe me when I say, and I won't take more of your time, because my colleagues should have time to ask questions if they want to-believe me when I say that I, as a fellow citizen of yours in California, find it very difficult indeed, in performing my congressional duties, and which I hope always to  1627 do within the framework of the Constitution, to understand why so many people who come before this committee claim the privilege of the fifth amendment. And I recognize we have that right and must always preserve it and protect it. I don't understand why they claim that privilege if they are honest-to-God in their statement when they say they want to weed out subversive people and subversive programs. Thank you very much for allowing me to speak with you.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. James, in light of your statement that you are opposed to communism, do you consider communism to be in the nature of a conspiracy? 
Mr. JAMES. I don't know whether it is a conspiracy or not. I have heard charges, it has not yet so been proved to be. I can oppose many things without considering them conspiracies, world conspiracies, or whatever. I think in a time of crisis like this it behooves us all to be a little careful when we call something a conspiracy, to slow down on the emotional word, or else we build up on our side the same type of name-calling that we hear coming from the Russian side in the present situation.
Mr. JACKSON. That is very broad and glittering statement. How- ever, it seems to me that the time has come to be an American or not an American. The time has come for a lot of people
Mr. WIRIN. May I interrupt? 
Mr. JACKSON. You may not interrupt me. I have every right to make a statement. There have been a lot of speeches made here today and I am only saying that every American should make up his mind whether he is an American or whether he owes his allegiance somewhere else. Do you take exception to that?
Mr. WInIN. This witness hasn't made any statements or speeches.
Mr. WooD. Counsel, please restrain yourself under the rules of the committee.
Mr. JACKSON. I call communism an international conspiracy and those engaged in it to be traitors, and that is with no particular reference to this witness.
Mr. WIRIN. Are you addressing me?
Mr. JACKSON. I am not addressing you, I am making an observa- tion.
Mr. WOOD. Applause in this room will not be tolerated, ladies and gentlemen. I have tried to make that crystal clear at the beginning of these hearings. I would dislike very much to have to clear the room, but we will tolerate no further outburst from the audience.
Mr. JACKSON. If during the war enemy paratroops had landed in a field a half a mile away it would have been the duty of an American citizen who had knowledge of the attack to report immediately the nature and extent of the threat. Those troops, those enemies, are in our midst today and it is my contention that it is still the duty of every loyal and devoted American citizen to forego double-talk, be an American, and tell what he knows. Frankly, I deplore the fact that witnesses take the position that they owe no obligation to disclose the associations and the nature of this conspiracy, and I repeat it is a conspiracy. 
Mr. JAMES. Sir, I feel- 1628
Mr. COMMUNISM JACKSON. IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY I have no further questions. 
Mr. JAMEs. Sir, I feel within myself as loyal an American citizen as you are and as ready to come to the defense of my country. I am sorry that we part in this other respect. 
Mr. JACKSON. I am sorry that we part company, too. I wish that you would show a willingness to cooperate not only with the committee but with the Congress of the United States and the people of the United States who look to this committee to do the job that has been assigned to it.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter. 
Mr. POTrER. Mr. James, in your testimony you stated that you are not now a member of the Communist Party and you are not in sympathy with its objectives. I assume that is what you meant?
Mr. JAMES. That is correct. There is a technicality. say I was not now, I said I am not a member. I did not 
Mr. POTTER. All right, I didn't mean to put any words in your testi- mony. I would like to ask whether it is the policies or the aims or objectives of the Communist Party that you are in disagreement with. 
Mr. JAMES. I am not familiar with all the policies and aims of the Communist Party at present. I am in disagreement with the Communist Party on its stahd on the Korean war; I am in disagreement with the Communist Party on its stand on the Soviet Union and the various countries like Czechoslovakia, Poland, and so forth.
Mr. POTTER. You have been quite concerned, as you stated in your testimony, concerning the fact that this committee might endeavor at some time and some way to establish some type of censorship, which I wish to assure you that it is not the intent of the committee nor is it within the province of the committee to do so even if it should wish to. I am just wondering how you can justify your position of not cooperating with the committee at a time when we are drafting men to fight people in Korea who are a part of the same Communist organization which happens to be in a different country but under the same leadership as when out here. It is difficult to see the consistency that you claim in your answer to the questions that you are not now a member of the Communist Party, but you fail to aid the committee in endeavoring to find out the actions of the party here in this country when at the same time we are drafting men, in your own home town, men about our age, to fight this very ideology that you are now endeavoring to protect.
Mr. JAMES. Sir, if I felt that the revealing of names, and so forth, would help this committee, I mean would help our Government in its war in Korea, and so forth, my answer would perhaps be different. I do not feel that to be the case.
Mr. PorrER. If during World War II we had, and I assume that we did have at that time through the German Bund here in this country, an organization who was taking their advice and directives from our enemy, from Germany at that time, would you have then been reluctant to name names as you are today?
Mr. JAMES (conferring with counsel). I think that is a speculative question. I would like to leave it there.
Mr. POTTER. No questions. 
Mr. WOOD. Ordinarily, Mr. James, I do not undertake to question witnesses, certainly to any great extent, but your testimony here has left me in a muddled position and I feel I must delve a little bit fur-  1629 ther into a few phases of your testimony. I don't think any impartial person could listen to your testimony here, and I believe you would agree if you were here and I was there giving the same testimony, that you would assume the same attitude, but that at some time in the past however recent it may be, you held membership in the Communist Party. I think the last statement that you made to the effect that if you thought it would be of benefit to the war effort you would reveal the names, or to further illustrate the inference that you have held membership in this organization, I would like, and for the moment, am attaching utmost good faith to your statement that you do not now sympathize with the aims and purposes of the Communist Party. I must assume from that, and I think any fairminded person must likewise assume from it, that something has happened since you took membership in this organization to make its membership repugnant to you, otherwise there would have been no necessity for you to make a break from it. If that is true, and if you feel that continued membership in the party renders you a less worthy citizen of America than you could be out of it, then don't you think you owe an obligation to aid others in the same category that you were once in, to take a like position about it ? (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. WIIN. May I consult with him for a moment ?
Mr. WooD. You may consult with him as much as you desire, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I call attention to the fact that I am advised from the press section that they cannot hear what is being said. I don't know whether you can beam the amplifying system more toward that area or not.
Mr. JAMES. Sir, this question of yours implies something which I have neither affirmed nor denied, as I believe my refusal was.
Mr. WooD. That is correct, sir.
Mr. JAMES. In general, though, I would say every man in every crisis of his life makes up his own mind as to what he does. 
Mr. WOOD. One other thing you testified to that I must take excep- tion to, and that is when you stated that you feared that the action of this committee in seeking to root out the weeds had also accomplished the purpose of rooting out some of the crops. This committee isn't rooting out any crops from any source. If any usefulness of any person whose name may be used in connection with the activities of this committee may suffer as a consequence thereof, the responsibility rests squarely upon that witness. I make that statement in connection with your testimony that you took a list of the names that were given here by previous witnesses for the purpose of keeping in mind those people who were going to suffer as a result of their activities before this committee. I point out to you again, sir, that it has been the policy of this committee, since I have been connected with it, and still is, that we are not only glad to give permission but will gladly welcome the presence before this committee of any person whose name has been used by anybody in connection with the testimony before this committee, either denying anything that is said with reference to their actions or conduct, or to affirm it or to explain it. That opportunity is now being afforded to you. There can be no odium attached to any person who may have made a mistake and have seen that they have made a mistake and seek to rectify it, because if there was we would give lie to the advent of Jesus 1630 Christ in this world, who came here for the purpose of making possible forgiveness upon repentance. I know of no better forum that could be provided for you today to let all of the acquaintances that you have, in the world so far as that is concerned, know if it is true that you have completely broken from all your ties with this subversive organization, if indeed you have had such ties, which you have given every inference that you have had. I regret very much that you haven't seen fit to take advantage of that opportunity. With reference to any other persons whose names have been used that has been referred to as having been injured by the action of this committee, if they don't come here themselves and take advantage of this same forum to deny, affirm, or explain, then the results of the use of their names here are squarely upon their shoulders and not upon the shoulders of this committee, because this committee didn't require them to enter any organization that they may have entered. They went into it without any sort of action, conduct, or encouragement from this committee. So I just couldn't let go unchallenged that accusation that you made, because it isn't supported by any fact on this earth. Do you desire to offer any fact as evidence of the efficacy of the statement you made that people were going to be punished as a result of the activities of this committee? Do you want to offer any justification for such an accusation ? If so.I will be glad to hear you.
Mr. JAMEs. Sir, this committee has been set up to investigate communism. However, this committee should not feel that only those people who are willing to totally cooperate with the committee are good Americans, and that is the implication of the chairman's speech. There are many people who have never been connected with communism at all who have for one reason or another opposed this committee. The New Yorker magazine, not a political magazine, sir, has looked with some fear on what this committee might be doing to the cause of writing in this country.
Mr. WOOD. In that connection I take issue with you again, and deny that the statement you made is supported by any fact. I hope the time will never come when I, or any other Member of Congress, objects to constructive criticism of any act that I perform. I welcome it. I have never sought it, nor has any member of this committee, and certainly not as a committee action, ever sought to penalize or to even criticize any person who constructively criticizes our action, because we welcome it. We know we are not perfect and we are trying in our humble way to do the job that the American people, through its representatives in Congress, have evolved upon our shoulders. Is there any further question, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, there are not, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. The witness may be excused from further attendance. Have you any other witnesses?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. I believe we will take a recess for about 15 minutes at .this time. (A short recess was taken.)
Mr. WooD. Please let's have order in the hearing room. Are you ready to proceed, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.  1631 
Mr. WOOD. The record will show that the full subcommittee is present. Whom will you call?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Lilith James.
Mr. WooD. Mrs. James, come forward. Will you please hold up your right hand and be sworn ? You do solemnly swear the evidence you give this subcommittee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth ?
Mrs. JAMES. I do. 
Mr. WooD. Be seated. Are you represented by counsel, Mrs. James ?
Mrs. JAMES. Yes, I am.
Mr. WooD. For the record, will counsel identify himself again.
Mr. WIRIN. A. L. Wirin, Los Angeles.
Mr. WOOD. Proceed, counsel. TESTIMONY OF MRS. LILITH JAMES, ACCOMPANIED BY HER COUNSEL, A. L. WIRIN 