Mr. DARE. Danny Dare.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record? I do not see counsel present.
Mr. GANG. Martin Gang is my name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell your name, please, Mr. Dare.
Mr. DARE. D-a-r-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. DARE. New York City, March 1905.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. DARE. Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly, please, what your educational background has been ?
Mr. DARE. Public school, eighth grade; high school, approximately 6 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been the record of your employment?
Mr. DARE. Sporadic.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since 1935.
Mr. DARE. Since 1935, staging shows for picture theaters, occasional studio jobs as a dance director, unemployed for a period of approximately 2 years from 1937 to 1939, and following that I was COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 269 employed at a picture studio for approximately 6 years, and then unemployed from the middle of 1948 to early 1950, and from then on in television.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dare, during the course of the hearings conducted by this committee in Los Angeles in September of 1951, a person by the name of Martin Berkeley testified, and I want to read you a portion of his testimony which related to you. This question was asked him: Is there an organization in Hollywood known as the Hollywood Theater Alliance.
Mr. BERKELEY. There was such an organization; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER Did you come in contact with the work of that organization?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes. I worked. I attended a few meetings of the faction of that organization around 1938 or 1939.
Mr TAVENNER. Did you know the circumstances under which it was organized?
Mr. BERKELEY. The Hollywood Theater Alliance was organized directly by the Communist Party for the purpose of presenting so-called progressive or left-wing anti-Fascist propaganda. I believe their first production, which was the one I couldn't think of before in relation to Mr. Bassman was Meet the People, which was very successful, both here and in New York. I attended a meeting of the faction which helped organize the Hollywood Theater Alliance, although I had no active part in the Theater Alliance at all. As a matter of fact, I attended a meeting of this organization and subsequently when there was talk of doing my Lincoln play, by that time there was no money left and the Lincoln play was never done. The leading spirits in the faction wereQUESTION. And again, by "faction" you are referring to members of the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY Dues-paying members of the Communist Party. Mostly, actually, the members of this faction were the men who helped organ? the show and put it on-writer, director, and so on. Edward Eliscu, a writer, was a member of this group and very active in the show itself. Incidentally, it was a very amusing show. Robert Rossen. QUESTION. Is he the same Robert Rossen who appeared before the Committee on Un-American Activities, as far as you know?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. Edward Chodorov Incidentally, he was the first producer I worked for in town, and the man I went with was Guy Endore. To go back way early this morning, he is a well-known playwright and producer, and Henry Blankfort, a writer. QUESTION Is he the same individual who appeared before this committee yesterday?
Mr BERKELEY He is, sir. I saw his picture in the paper and there is no doubt in my mind. Danny Dare, producer and director, who has worked for several of the major studios in both capacities, and I believe is now working on television. And then the witness proceeds to name other persons who were connected with that enterprise. (Continuing to read:) QUESTION. Do you know whether she is the same Bess Taffel who occupied the chair yesterday that you are now occupying ANSWER Yes. she is the same girl George Sklar, an excellent writer; Irving J. White; and Francis Faragoh, the writer. QUESTION. Did you attend a meeting in the home of Offner? I understood you to say that you attended a meeting but you did not state where it was.
Mr. BERKELEY. I attended the first meeting of this group at the home of Mortimer Offner, who was then a screen writer, and today I believe is a television writer or producer or director, I don't know which. Now, soon after that testimony was taken by the committee, the committee received a telegram which I would like to hand you and ask you whether or not you can identify it as a telegram which you sent to the committee.
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir. 270 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer it in evidence and ask that it be marked as "Dare Exhibit 1."
Mr. VELDE. It will be received. (The document referred to was received in evidence and marked "Dare Exhibit No. 1.")
Mr. TAVENNER. This telegram reads as follows: NEW YORK, September 24, 1951. Chairman,House Un-American Activities Committee: Feel I have been unjustly accused. Cannot understand vague charges in Berkeley testimony. Am willing to appear at once. Can you arrange conference tomorrow with committee counsel for this purpose. Please reply collect. Did you then receive a telegram from this committee?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will ask you to look at this copy of a telegram and state whether or not that is a copy of the telegram you received.
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer it in evidence and ask that it be marked "Dare Exhibit 2."
Mr. VELDE. It will be received. (The document referred to was received in evidence and marked "Dare Exhibit No. 2.")
Mr. TAVENNER. This telegram reads as follows: DANNY DARE, New York City: Committee expect to adjourn tomorrow. It bears date of September 24, 1951. Will make arrangements for your appearance in Washington as soon as practicable after return of subcommittee. FRANCIS WALTE, Acting Chairman, Un-American Activities Committee. Now, in response to that exchange of telegrams, did you appear before a subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities in Washington on September 27, 1951?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you appeared there before some of the committee members had been able to return to Washington from the hearing, as well as members of the staff who were working here.
Mr. DARE. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. At Los Angeles.
Mr. DARE. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. The records of the committee show that you did appear on September 27 before a subcommittee composed of Representatives Francis E. Walter, James B. Frazier, Jr., and Bernard W. Kearney. In the course of that hearing, Mr. Walter, the chairman of the subcommittee, made this statement: I understand you desire to make a statement concerning testimony given within the last few days in California before the subcommittee that was taking testimony out there. Do you recall that question having been asked or statement made?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your reply?
Mr. DARE. Would you repeat the question, please? I'm sorry. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 271 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Walter, according to the transcript of the testimony, made this statement: I understand you desire to make a statement concerning testimony given within the last few days in California before the subcommittee that was taking testimony out there. 
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I will read from the transcript of your reply and ask you whether or not it is correct as far as you can remember.
Mr. DARE. I can only say what I read in the newspaper, that he listed a large number of names, of which mine was one, and I don't know the exact statement he made, but the implication was he named me as a Communist.
Mr. WAITER. As I recall the testimony, you are correct. He did list a great number of names of people who were in the Communist Party with him, and he was very specific that these were all people that he knew and people who had attended Communist Party meetings with him. (At 10:20 a. m., Representative Donald L. Jackson entered the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing to read) :
Mr. DARE. That is not true. Did you make that reply?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. At another place in the transcript of the testimony appears this:
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. WALTER. Are you a member of the Communist Party? DARE. No, sir. WALTER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party? DARE. No, sir. Do you recall those questions and replies?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. At another place in the transcript Mr. Walter asked this question: The question was did anybody ever ask you to join the Communist Party?
Mr. DARE. No. Do you recall that exchange of question and answer?
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. After that testimony the committee continued in its investigation regarding the statement and testimony made by Mr. Martin Berkeley regarding you, and as a result of its investigation, the testimony relating to this subject was referred to the Department of Justice for its consideration in determining whether or not prosecutive action was justified. Subsequently, Mr. Walter received a letter from you in which appears this language: I did a very stupid thing in asking you to take me to Washington and then testifying falsely before the committee This was a copy of a letter addressed to another person which you sent Mr. Walter. Is that correct, according to your recollection ?
Mr. DARE. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU also stated in the course of this letter: I will tell the committee everything I know and try to make amends. Was that contained in your letter ? 272 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. DARE. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. TO Mr. Walter?
Mr. DARE. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you whether or not any promise or representation of any kind was made by this committee or anybody in its behalf to you to induce you to come before this committee and make any statement whatever further than that which you had already made.
Mr. DARE. None whatsoever.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS your appearance here the result of your own initiative and your own decision in the matter?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, do you realize that the answer to any question that I might ask you might be used in a subsequent proceeding?
Mr. DARE. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And in spite of these things, you desire to appear before this committee and state to it all that is within your knowledge and truthfully answer all questions that are propounded to you?
Mr. DARE. That is true, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as shown from the transcript of the record, you denied before this committee that you had ever been a member of the Communist Party. Now, what do you desire to say about that?
Mr. DARE. Well, I was in New York at that time with my family, employed, and the way the news was broken to me was quite a shock. I was called in by my employer and shown a newspaper article mentioning my name, as the testimony showed. Well, I became panicky, and realizing that if I said, "Yes, this is true," I would immediately lose my job, which I particularly did not want to do at the time, not only from my financial standpoint but I was in the midst of doing an anti-Communist show called The Crusade for Freedom, which was a nationwide telecast, and I became emotionally panicky and I thought I could brazen it through, because actually I had been so little advised that I just did the wrong thing, did the stupid thine, through fear and panic.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the facts regarding your alleged Communist Party membership? Were you at any time a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, the circumstances under which you became a member, both as to time and place and method of recruitment into the Communist Party?
Mr. DARE. If you will bear with me, I will try. Up until 1938 I had been in show business all my life and never stayed in one place long enough to have a home, and as a result had never voted or never been interested in politics. That year I went to a show and during intermission I overheard a conversation that disturbed me very much between two men who were talking about what a good job Hitler was doing in Germany and that that was the right thing to do to the minorities over there; of course, he might be going a little too far in exterminating them, but he should confiscate their possessions and put them in concentration camps. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 273 I turned around and saw two very normal looking, intelligent people who said it casually, and I was frightened. I intended to be married shortly and raise a family, and it preyed on my mind. I belonged to an athletic club where I spent my time playing handball, and so forth. I discussed it with some of the members there, and a couple of them said, "Well, you don't know what is going on in the world, and you should try to learn." They started to tell me things about what was going on in Germany, and how it might happen here unless people took an active part in fighting it, and I was asked to go tothey said it was a local election coming up, and if I was interested, would I go to see some of the candidates and hear what they said, and see what they were doing to fight, and if I was interested, to vote for them. I went to a couple of meetings, and before I knew it I was a member, of the Anti-Nazi League and the Hollywood Democratic Committee, and so I became interested. Then as a result of that, I imagineincidentally, I was not active in those organizations. My participation was signing a slip and paying dues, and that was it. I didn't attend any meetings. I must have gotten on all the sucker lists, because I started to get literature through the mail, and one day a circular came asking me if I was interested in a live theater in Hollywood. Of course, I was. This was my profession, and I hadn't been employed for a couple of years. It said, "If you are interested, come to a meeting at" such and such a place. I went. I don't remember where it was. There were at least 50 or 60 people there, and I am quite sure that this was not the first meeting of the Hollywood Theater Alliance, which it later turned out to be, because there were committees functioning, and I know that I was not there at the inception of this organization. This was supposed to be a nonprofit community venture to give employment and opportunity to young actors, directors, and so forth. It was decided by the people talking that the venture of this theater should be a musical revue, because it would involve more people. Of course, I didn't know what that meant at that time, but I do now. Volunteers were called for to assist in producing this show, and, of course, I raised my hand; this was my line of work, and I found myself on a committee with the job of producing this first show. I had never known any of these people before, and the other people on the committee were Morley, Offner, Henry Meyers, and Jay Gorney; and we proceeded to start to work on gathering material for this show. At this meeting a gentleman by the name of Irving White came up and introduced himself to me, and said he had been a stage manager on Broadway, and said he knew me by reputation, and said he thought I could make a good contribution to this show. Well, we started to gather material, and some time during the next 2 or 3 months Mr. Edward Eliscu was added to this committee. There were arguments about what materials should go into the show and ,what materials shouldn't go into the show, and one day Mr. Irving White, who had held some sort of position with the Hollywood Theater Alliance, as it now was called, came to me and said, "You just don't understand what the show should be about. You need a political education. If you are interested in fighting Mr. Hitler, you should join with the people who are doing this thing," and the sum and 274 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA substance of it was that he said, "And the Communist Party are the people that are actually doing this." Well, I asked him the two $64 questions, "What is this I hear about the Communist Party being dedicated to the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force and violence ?" He assured me that this was not true and he could show it to me in the constitution of the Communist Party of the United States at that time. I also asked him, "What about this talk I hear about taking orders from Moscow?" He said that was positively not true, that the party is independent and acted on its own. Well, I thought it over and he kept talking to me and eventually I agreed to do this.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you stated that Mr. Irving White stated to you that you needed some political education.
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of his statement to you in full and what was the occasion for his making such a statement to you ?
Mr. DARE. Incidentally, this was around August 1938, to set the date for you. Well, I had never been interested in politics and my motive for doing anything about joining any organization was to try to prevent what happened in Germany from happening here, and while I might have been intense and eager to do something, I didn't maybe know the reasons why I was doing things, and they said, "You don't know what the forces are that are actually behind the so-called Fascist movement in America, and in order to understand that you must get an education, and in order to see that the right material went in the show, you should be able to analyze material and judge its value."
Mr. TAVENNER. Well then there was a definite connection between that conversation and the purpose of the show ?
Mr. DARE. I believe so; yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And it was in that connection that you were advised to go into the Communist Party?
Mr. DARE. That's right, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any special group in the Communist Party?
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us about that? 
Mr. DARE. Well, the first gathering I went to with Mr. White was-there were about 30 people present, to the best of my knowledge, at that meeting. Again I didn't know any of them. I do remember two people who addressed us. One was John Howard Lawson and the other was a fellow by the name of Cyril. I didn't know his last name and never have seen him since.
Mr. Lawson spoke about what was happening here, and the sum and substance of it was, "You can't be an ostrich and stick your head in the sand and say it can't happen here because it happened in Germany." This fellow by the name of Cyril spoke something about Marxism, which didn't interest me and I didn't understand it, and that is all I remember about that meeting, except that I was told that in the future that it would be broken up into smaller groups of six. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 275 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become a member of one of the smaller groups of six?
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did that group meet?
Mr. DARE. The first meeting that I remember was at the home of Frank Tuttle, although he was not present.
Mr. TAVENNER. How did you receive information as to where and when the meeting would be held?
Mr. DARE. Mr. White told me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were present at that meeting?
Mr. DARE. A woman by the name of Jessie Burns, Tanya Tuttle, a fellow by the name of Ray Spencer, and a woman by the name of Pauline Lauber, and also Mr. Herbert Biberman.
Mr. TAVENNER. How frequently did that group meet?
Mr. DARE. I don't remember whether it was supposed to be once a week or once every 2 weeks; I really don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over how long a period of time did you meet with this group?
Mr. DARE. To the best of my recollection, perhaps 5 times maximum, although I can only actually remember 2. But I am sure I went to a couple more.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. Could you further identify the persons you have named by their occupation or the work they do ?
Mr. DARE. I will think, sir. Irving White, I believe was trying to be a writer, although I don't know that, where he was, actually was, ever employed. He had some sort of a small-paying job with the Hollywood Theater Alliance for a while, I think, I am pretty sure. Ray Spencer, I think, was also supposed to be a writer, although I don't remember that he ever worked in a studio or anywhere that he ever worked, or what he wrote. Jessie Burns, I understood, was a reader at a motion picture studio. Pauline Lauber, I believe, was a secretary, but I am not positive. Tanya Tuttle was the wife of Frank Tuttle and was interested in the ballet theater or dancing, but I don't believe did it as a profession.
Mr. MOULDER. Is that as much information as you have to identify them by?
Mr. DARE. So far as their vocation is concerned; yes.
Mr. MOULDER. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell the committee how this particular group functioned, as to what their purpose was, what its chief interest
Mr. DARE. By this particular group you mean the Hollywood Theater Alliance?
Mr. TAVENNER. I meant this particular group of the Communist Party.
Mr. DARE. I am sorry. I was lost for a moment. Mental suggestion. Well, I remember that when I got there they were there already. A lot of lighter literature was out, and I think we read one of them about fascism in America and what was happening in Germany on that particular subject, and it was discussed. This occupied most of the meeting, so far as I remember. 276 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Oh, I remember that we were told that there would be a rotating chairman each time so that each one would gain the experience of conducting a meeting. Then there was a discussion of another pamphlet on Marx, which I didn't understand. That is about all I remember about the meeting. I think-yes; I think the dues were explained to us, that if you were working you were supposed to pay 5 percent of your salary. If you weren't working, which I wasn't, it was either 10 cents or 50 cents a month; I forget which.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the time that you attended those meetings, did functionaries of the Communist Party on higher levels appear before your meeting ?
Mr. DARE. I couldn't swear to that, but I got the impression that
Mr. Biberman might have been. But the others didn't seem to be.
Mr. TAVENNER. What interest did this particular group of the Communist Party, to which you were assigned, have in the alliance group that you first referred to?
Mr. DARE. At that time I don't know whether it had any distinct relationship with the Hollywood Theater Alliance, although the Hollywood Theater Alliance show was discussed in there. Perhaps after I left there was some purpose in this particular unit being formed, and I am sure there must have been some motive in having these particular people in this group, but I don't believe I ever found out exactly why. Incidentally, to give you another date, at the time Mr. White solicited my membership in the party was around March of 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us go back and consider further the work that was being done by the Theater Alliance in the production of the play. I think you volunteered for a part in the production of that play?
Mr. DARE. Yes; to direct it.
Mr. TAVENNER. To direct it?
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the play?
Mr. DARE. It became-there was no name at that time. It became known as Meet the People.
Mr. TAVENNER. Meet the People?
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it a successful production?
Mr. DARE. Yes; quite.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did it make money?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did the play run in Los Angeles?
Mr. DARE. Over a year. I would say approximately a year and 3 months; somewhere around there.
Mr TAVENNER. Do you know whether the production went on to New York?
Mr. DARE. Yes, a second company was formed while this company was playing here, and the second company went on the road and then eventually opened in New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you have stated that Mr. White advised you during the progress of the work on this play, that you needed political education and indicated that you did not understand the political implications from this play. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 277 Have you made a study of that production to determine what the implications were from it?
Mr. DARE. I certainly have, since my invitation by the committee. I have done some research, and what I thought was perfectly innocuous and amusing in those days, as I read it now, I can see the connection and what it actually was meant to accomplish.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just in a general way, what would you say that it was meant to accomplish, by the production of this play?
Mr. DARE. Well, to propagandize and expound the theories that at that time was the Communist Party line.
Mr. MOULDER. May I ask a question?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. I would like to ask a question for my information. Do I recall the first name of Mr. White, or who he isMr. DARE. Irving.
Mr. TAVENin . Irving White. How do you spell Irving?
Mr. DARE. I-r-v-i-n-g.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you recall any particular features about this play that would demonstrate what you have just had to say, namely, that the play was intended to propagate the Communist Party line as it existed at that time?
Mr. DARE. YesMr. VELDE. May I ask at what time again ?
Mr. JACKSON. And what was the Communist Party line at that time?
Mr. DARE. I think it might be best explained-I am not qualified to per se give a long explanation of the Communist Party line. 1 can only cite the relation of the material that went in the showMr. JACKSON. Were the Communists at that time with Hitler or against him?
Mr. DARE. It depends on the day you are asking about.
Mr. JACKSON. You mean during the course of this the line changed ? Maybe not so much as being against Hitler-I
Mr. DARE. Yes. think they were always against him-but as regards Mr. Roosevelt, I think their sympathies changed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what is the first thing that occurred which would indicate political significance ?
Mr. DARE. Of course, this show had quite a long rehearsal period due to the lack of success in raising money and resistance to certain opinions contrary to the opinions in Hollywood, what was not a Communist opinion at that time, and there were certain groups that refused to rent space to the groups respecting their motives. There was trouble getting a police and fire permit for a certain building, because pressure was put on the fire department not to issue the permit. As a result, the show was in rehearsal and preparation for quite a long time; I would say 6 months. When the show first started to be prepared there was a song written called, Mr. Roosevelt, Won't You Please Run Again?, which was a plea to Mr. Roosevelt for a third term, and to forget all the opposition to a third term. By the time the show opened, which by that time the Nazi-Soviet pact had occurred, this never wound up in the show, and, as a matter 31747-53-pt. 1--2 278 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA of fact, there was some fairly anti-Roosevelt policies sketches in the show.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. "Meet the People" was not a play, was it? It was a series of specialty acts?
Mr. DARE. It was a musical revue.
Mr. JACKSON. A musical revue rather than a play.
Mr. DARE. Yes, consisting of songs, skits with no story line, but what was called a thread of a story. During this period, of course, when this number did not get into the show, this was around May or June of 1939, and by that time, by the time the show opened after Roosevelt had supported Finland, as a result of Russia's attack on Finland, the song was eliminated from the potential list of material.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask a question ?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. How long after Roosevelt supported Finland did this song disappear from the script, was it a matter of days or weeks or months?
Mr. DARE. I couldn't say. It was on a potential list of material for the show and then it just never got into the show. I couldn't be specific about the exact date when somebody said, "This does not go into the show."
Mr. DOYLE. Your conclusion is it was on account of the United States supporting Finland's position ?
Mr. DARE. Plus Mr. Roosevelt giving aid to the Allies who were fighting Hitler.
Mr. CLARDY. May I ask a question?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLARDY. How was that handled, Witness? In other words, was there some discussion amongst the entire group, or did someone in particular merely hand down the order that, "This does not go in the play"?
Mr. DARE. This I don't know, because I had been in and out of the Communist Party, and while I continued to direct the show there was a committee that selected the material for the show, of which I was one. Who, what, why decided this, I couldn't say. I do know it never got into the show, but I actually couldn't say how.
Mr. CLARDY. Based on the knowledge that you have acquired since that event, would you say that the order, however it came, was from a group of Communists?
Mr. DARE. I am pretty sure of that.
Mr. CLARDY. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dare, you mentioned the fact that the President gave aid to the Allies during a certain period.
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any change made in the script that reflected the Communist Party line on that question, that is, the question of aid by this country to the allies?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir, I have before me two of the scripts from the show, one dated February 20, 1940, and the other dated January 20, 1941. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 279 In the version of 1940 there was a sketch which was a prelude to a song and a dance, which had the United States Senate as the setting. The only implication in that was that the scene was based on two fairly successful pictures at that time which were "Mr. Deeds Goes To Washington" and "Mr. Smith Goes To Town," which was the only reason for the setting being in the Senate. In the first script it had no political implication at all, and was merely a setting for a song and a dance. By January of 1940 the same sketch had been changed to attack, ridicule Mr. Roosevelt and ridicule his domestic policies, satirized his giving destroyers to England and satirized the building of the factories for defense, satirized his-or, accusing him of stretching the Monroe Doctrine and ridiculed the idea any Senator would ask for a small amount for relief.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Dare, this script was dated January 20, 1941, was it not?
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. I think you said 1940. This is just to get the record straight.
Mr. DARE. I am sorry. The second script was 1941. This was the same sketch, only rewritten at that time. At what point it was rewritten I can't say, but by the time January 1, 1941, arrived, this was the state it was in.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, would you give the committee a little clearer idea of just the way in which that satirization took place, by reading pertinent parts of the script?
Mr. DARE. The Senate is in session. Senior Senators, secretaries and one junior Senator are all seated. Two gavel knocks. Voice off stage says, "The President of the United States of America." A comedian came out with a fishing rod and old fishing hat, such as Roosevelt used to wear. A hand comes out from the wings and takes the fishing rod away from him. He turned and said, "Thank you, Wendell." This was during the Willkie-Roosevelt campaign. He said, "I have served you faithfully for 8 years." The Senators applaud. "And I hope to serve you for 4 more." Senators almost applaud, but show resentment instead. "My message today is this: We have troubles in our country-now. We have unequal distribution of wealth-now. We have strife and havoc on all sides-now. And I plan to do something about itlater." Much applause. Two gavel knocks. Junior and senior Senators: "Mr. President." A voice says, "The Chair recognizes the senior Senator." Senior Senator: "I move we appropriate $1 billion for monkey glands for overage destroyers." All but junior Senator 'applaud. Junior and senior Senators: "Mr. President." "The Chair recognizes the senior Senator." Senior Senator: "I move we appropriate $5 billion to build factories for underprivileged millionaires." All but junior Senator applaud. 280 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Junior and senior Senators: "Mr. President." "The Chair recognizes the senior Senator." Senior Senator: "I move we appropriate $12 billion for rubber bands to stretch the Monroe Doctrine." All but junior Senator applaud. Junior Senator (angrily) : "Mr. President." Over the PAV (very tired) : "Oh, all right. The Chair recognizes the junior Senator." Junior Senator: "Thank you, Mr. President. I move we appropriate $1 for relief." Everybody gasps in horror. Smnor Senator reaches for gun. Everybody jumps up. There is a struggle for the gun, which developed into a jitterbug dance.
Mr. VELDE. What was the date of that script, Mr. Dare
Mr. DARE. January 20, 1941.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Counsel, would this be a convenient breaking-off point for a recess?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. The committee will be in recess until 5 minutes after 11. (Short recess was taken.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will be in order. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dare, you referred earlier in your testimony to the attack made by the Soviet Union on Finland.
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there anything in this sketch or in any of the sketches or any part of this play which carried the Communist Party line with regard to Finland?
Mr. DARE. I think so. If I may quote from the script. There was a sketch in the show thatMr. TAVENNER. The show you are referring to is "Meet the People"
Mr. DARE. That is right, sir. There was a sketch in the show which concerned two tramps out of work, sitting on a bench discussing conditions. A policeman comes in, and, incidentally, during this sketch there were jibes at Mr. Roosevelt and the domestic policies at the time. At the finish of the sketch a policeman comes in and tells the two men to get moving. As he says this, a woman comes in with a receptacle asking for contributions. She says, "Officer, would you care to make a contribution?" The cop says, "What is it for?" The woman says, "Mr. Roosevelt's fund for needy Finns." The cop very warmly says, "Why, sure, Lady. Poor things." And he drops a quarter in the can. "Thank you," says the woman, and she exits. The cop said to the men, "I thought I told you two bums to clear out." The two men start off and, as they walk, the first man says, "Hey, are you a Finn?" The second man says, "No. Are you?" The first man says, "No." The second man says, "Too bad." The implication, of course, being there was money for Finland but for nobody at home that needed any money. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 281 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any attack upon domestic policies which would carry out the Communist Party line?
Mr. DARE. As I studied it recently, I think so. At that time I quite didn't realize the implication. This is a sketch called With Mr. Hollywood in Darkest Washington, which opens with the depicting of a supposed Republican Party. This was during the time the Republicans were going to pick a candidate to run against Mr. Roosevelt. I guess it would be in 1940. They are trying to decide what kind of a candidate they should select. Do you want me to tell you about it orMr. TAVENNER. I think if you just describe it generally it will be all right.
Mr. DARE. They say, "We have got to have a man who will appeal to the people." And he says, "There is"-they have a candidate, but he looks awful. He is a real scarecrow. They said, "We have got to do something to liven this man up." He says, "The only man I know to do it is Mr. Hollywood, the big producer." He says, "What will he do with it ?" He says, "Look what they did for the British Empire, Lloyd's of London, Gunga Din, Henry the Eighth." They call Mr. Hollywood in to tell them how to make their candidate to appeal to the voters. ' He brings his own makeup man with him and they. go to work on him. He says, "The first thing we have to'do is to delve into the complete characterization of the part. A man's looks always reflect his thoughts. Where is the script?" One says, "Script? What script?" He says, "As a president this man will stand for something. What's his platform going to be? What does he mean?" He says, "What are we going to promise the Republican voters?" "Oh, that is different. The first thing we are going to promise-" "Wait a minute. Get ready, please." "Now, give it to me with feeling-emotion-dialog. It is the day before election. He is presenting his platform to the people-the best people. His words will thunder, 'Lower taxes for the millionaires, higher taxes for the workingman.' "Wonderful-make him generous-bighearted-more, more. "His first cry will be, 'We must balance the budget.' Caution-give him caution. Cut down the relief. Thrift. More money for the Navy. Strength, let's have strength. Cut down on public health. "More freedom for Wall Street. money for the farmer. Economy. Consideration-regard. Less More money for the Army. Amend the Wagner bill. Amend the Bill of Rights. Scrap the WPA. Strengthen the FBI. Give him everything. More money for the Air Force. Smash the Labor Trusts. More money for the rich. Throw out the New Deal. Bring back the Old Deal." And at that point he says, "Fine, I think we have got him.' In the meantime the makeup man has been putting a mask on this character, with his back to the audience, and when they turn him around it is a mask of Mr. Roosevelt. The implication beingno matter what candidate the Republican or Democratic Party picked it would be the same thing. 282 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any incidents that occurred during the production of this play "Meet the People" which indicated to you any political significance on the part of the individuals who were responsible for the production of the play?
Mr. DARE. Not specifically, that I can recall. I didn't realize it at the time, but it is perfectly obvious to me now that someone or some group were dictating, how I don't know, what should go into this show.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any suggestions made by you at any time which were either approved or refused and which might indicate to the committee what the attitude was of those who were responsible for the production of this play?
Mr. DARE. I am sure that I didn't quite agree with everything that was said all the time. And I remember in one specific instance there was a number which concerned two couples dressed in tails and evening clothes. One was supposed to be a gigolo and the number in itself was quite innocuous. It wound up with the gigolo trying to find out which of the three had the most money, his partner or the other woman, and he eventually found out it was the other man, so he asked him to dance with him. This was followed by an encore, which was inserted at some point as these people left the stage, of Hitler and Stalin coming in dancing together. This was sometime during the Soviet-Nazi pact. Mr. Hitler had his back to the audience and we couldn't see his hand, which was behind Mr. Stalin's back, until they reached the center of the stage, at which point, as Mr. Hitler whirled Mr. Stalin around, we saw a knife was pointed at Mr. Stalin's back by Mr. Hitler. My argument at the time was, "How can you do that? You have to put a knife in both their hands if you want to be honest." This caused a big argument. I was told that, of course, Mr. Stalin was acting in good faith, whereas Mr. Hitler was a dangerous man and couldn't be trusted; he had a knife at Mr. Stalin's back. This wasn't in the show for a very long time. I forget at what point it went in and when it went out. I know it was in the show and I know this discussion and argument took place.
Mr. VELDE. Well, do you remember, Mr. Dare, was it before or after the pact was broken, before Germany marched on Russia?
Mr. DARE. What year was that?
Mr. VELDE. 1941.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder. 
Mr. MOILDER. Do you recall with whom you had this conversation concerning the characters, when you suggested to put a knife in each of their hands, whom you were talking to, discussing that problem with at the time?
Mr. DARE. People connected with the Hollywood Theatre Alliance.
Mr. MOULDER. You can't remember who they were ?
Mr. DARE. I am sure that the people who worked on the committee joined in the discussion, but I am also sure there were other people connected with the Hollywood Theater Alliance, and I couldn't swear as to who exactly took what side or who agreed with me. I know it would have been discussed within the Hollywood Theatre Alliance.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question now ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 283 
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Did anyone else who was on the committee or in the group agree with you?
Mr. DARL I think so.
Mr. DOYLE. About how many out of the group agreed with you, that you ought to have a knife in both their hands
Mr. DARE. I don't know, but not many.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, 2,3 or 4 out of the 12 or 15?
Mr. DARE. Probably. Maybe less than that, maybe 2 or 3. I don't know, but the majority, of course, were for the other version.
Mr. VELDE. That would definitely be before the peace pact was broken?
Mr. DARE. I imagine so.
Mr. CLARDY. May I ask a question?
Mr. VELDE. Yes.
Mr. CLARDY. Mr. Dare, it is obvious to me, from your testimony, that you claim to have joined the Communist Party when you did because you felt at that time that the Communist Party was opposed to anti-Semitism, is that right?
Mr. DARE. That is true, definitely.
Mr. CLARDY. That was your reason?
Mr. DARE. That is true.
Mr. CLARDY. You know, as a matter of fact, today that the Communist Party is as anti-Semitic as the Nazi Party was under Hitler ?
Mr. DARE. I certainly do. As a matter of fact, I can't understand anyone who at that time would have joined forces with the Communist Party or actually joined the party to fight anti-Semitism, why they couldn't today, with the same zeal and energy, fight the Communist Party, because, in essence, it is much worse today, because it tries to hide the fact it is anti-Semitic.
Mr. CLARDY. You mean it is much worse than the Nazi Party was?
Mr. DARE. I would think so, because the Nazis and the Fascists made no bones about where they stood. This is much more insidious, by protesting, "No; we don't do that," when all the reports and everything are quite the opposite.
Mr. CLARDY. Let me say I thoroughly agree with your conclusions in that respect.
Mr. DARE. In relation to that, may I say this: In order to fight this, if the organizations that are fighting communism could reach out and grab persons like myself, I am sure there are millions of them with the same intensity, and as the Communists grabbed me when I said, "I want to fight Hitler," that would be a great thing for the country. The minute I opened my mouth and said, "This is wrong, you ought to do something about it," they were ready to say, "Here is how you do it. Let's join this organization." If the same thing could be done for the other side, I would like to take an active part in it and I am sure there are thousands of others that would. There don't seem to be the organizations on the level of myself to say, "Come on, here is what you can do."
Mr. CLARDY. Don't you think this committee is doing something about it? 284 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. DARE. That isn't it. I am talking about organizations like the Anti-Nazi League, like the Hollywood Democratic League and Hollywood Theater Alliance. There are thousands who would join them. If one didn't suit the specific thing that they were fighting against, there was another that suited their purpose.
Mr. CLARDY. Isn't that what the American Legion and the veterans' organizations are doing, sparking a pretty good move in that direction?
Mr. DARE. That is fine. I can't join the American Legion. But I am talking about organizations thatMr. CLARDY. You want an organization that is as broad in its membership as the electorate of the Nation.
Mr. DARE. That is true. When I was asked if I wanted to produce the Anti-Communist Crusade for Freedom in New York, I jumped at the chance. That was something I could use my talents for, just as the Communists used my talents for themselves.
Mr. CLARDY. Don't you think this committee will in some measure encourage the thing you are talking about and thus help to reach the ends you are suggesting?
Mr. DARE. That is true. This is not a criticism of the committee.
Mr. CLARDY. I understand.
Mr. DARE. This is for organizations for people, just as the Communist Party was supposed to be, and they can say, "Let's get together," me and my neighbors, "and form an organization to do this."
Mr. CLARDY. You want to fight fire with fire, in other words.
Mr. DARE. That is true. You have to do it with the same intensity they were supposedly fighting Hitlerism.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKsoN. Do you have any knowledge of an organization called the Jewish League Against Communism ?
Mr. DARE. No, sir.
Mr. JACKsoN. I would suggest that perhaps it might fill some of the qualifications you say you are looking for.
Mr. DARE. The mere fact that I don't know anybody belonging to it makes me think-and this is no criticism-they may be a little remiss in reaching the people.
Mr. JACKSON. Perhaps the league is not on hand any time that the occasion arises to reach out and get a recruit, as the Communist Party was at the time you heard the discussion and decided to do something about it. One of the great weaknesses of freedom's forces today is the lack of effective organization it has. The Communist Party, the Communist conspiracy, is highly organized and highly vocal. If freedom is worth living for it seems to me it is worth looking for.
Mr. DARE. I do look for it, but I haven't been able to find it. I am sure there are millions more like me.
Mr. JACKSON. There are a number of organizations doing extremely effective work against communism. I am sure with a little effort you could find some such organization to fit your own requirements and your own needs.
Mr. DARE. I will be glad to do anything I can, and anyone can have my phone number and call on me for my services. I will be glad to do it. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 285 
Mr. VELDE. You did mention one organization, one anti-Communist organization is all.
Mr. DARE. Yes, the Anti-Communist Crusade for Freedom.
Mr. CLARDY. We had a professor in Washington who is also of the Jewish race, and I think some of the members asked him, I know I asked, whether he didn't agree with what you said a moment ago, that the Russian people and the Russian nation and its dictator are antiSemitic. He refused to agree. He said he had seen no evidence in that direction. Have you run across that sort of people out here, in the Jewish race, who take that attitude ?
Mr. DARE. No, because I haven't associated with anybody like that for a long, long time.
Mr. CLARDY. Can you think of any excuse why anyone of the Jewish race should take an attitude like that?
Mr. DARE. No; I certainly cannot, unless they refuse to believe the truth, for other motives.
Mr. CLARDY. A subsequent witness suggested about the only thing we could do with that man would be to send him over to Russia. What do you think of that?
Mr. DARE. I don't want to pass judgment on anything or anybody like that.
Mr. CLARDY. It would be a little harsh, wouldn't it?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dare, you stated this picture was a success financially-Mr. DARE. This play, sir.
Mr. TAVENNFR. I meant the play. This play "Meet the People." What was done with the money, do you know ?
Mr. DARE. The purpose for which the organization was formed was to do quite a variety of things. Produce dramatic shows and other things, establish a school for actors and so forth. I had very little, if anything, to do with the Hollywood Theater Alliance once the show was finished. I know they produced a dramatic show, which was a very big flop and lost money on it. It was a show called "Zero Hour" by Albert Maltz. Subsequently I heard that. By this time I think we were in the war and they were financing a little group of entertainers to go around and entertain in the defense factories. By this time I am sure they favored the defense factories and hospitals and Army camps. There were all sorts; there was a finance committee, there was a membership committee, there was a ticket committee. Our only function was to produce this show, so I couldn't say what happened to it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the official connection of Irving White with the Hollywood Theater Alliance, if you know?
Mr. DARE. I don't actually remember. I think that for a time he was a paid employee of the Hollywood Theater Alliance, for a small amount of money. I don't remember exactly in what capacity it was.
Mr. VELDE. How long has it been since you have seen Mr. White,
Mr. Dare?
Mr. DARE. Mr. White, in 1950.
Mr. VELDE. Where was that ?
Mr. DARE. Around a place called the Actors' Lab. 286 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. VELDE. Do you know whether or not he is still interested in the Communist Party ?
Mr. DARE. I do not, because I have not discussed-as a matter of fact, ever since then I have-incidentally, I had not seen him from the time "Meet the People" closed in 1950, and I saw him at that time; and, of course, I never discussed politics with him.
Mr. VELDE. What was his occupation in 1950 ?
Mr. DARE. He was engaged on a committee that was producing a show for the Actors' Lab.
Mr. VELDE. Do you know where he is at the present time?
Mr. DARE. NO, sir; I haven't seen him since then.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask a question ?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated it was a financial success, this "Meet the People." In what terms do you refer to it as a monetary success? How many thousand dollars' profit, for instance, if you have ever heard or knew?
Mr. DARE. Gosh, I couldn't say. I know it made a couple of thousand dollars a week for a long period of time. It went on the road.
Mr. DoYLE. For 6 months or a year ?
Mr. DARE. For a year.
Mr. DOYLE. A couple of thousand a week ?
Mr. DARE. I actually couldn't be sure. I don't want to name any great sum and then find out I was wrong. I know it made money, and I know it made fairly important money. And, in all fairness, a lot of it was used. There were a lot of people working around. Whether they needed them or not, I don't know, but they were people who would be paid.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. DARE. But there was money made.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. Through the course of your testimony you have given as reasons for your decisions and actions that it was because of your attitude on the issue of anti-Semitism. The question I am about to ask you has no reflection on you or to determine the issue-I ask you, are you of Jewish heritage?
Mr. DARE. Yes. 
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Frazier?
Mr. FRAZIER. You stated that you were a member of the Communist Party some years ago.
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. DARE. I was in for approximately 2 or 3 months and have been out since then.
Mr. FRAZIER. Now, the first faction that you belonged to consisted of 5 or 6 persons, of which Mr. White seems to have been the moving spirit. Since your withdrawal have you had any contacts with the other members of that group ?
Mr. DARE. No.
Mr. VELDE. Any association? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 287 
Mr. DARE. The people were never friends of mine, including the people who were in the Hollywood Theater Alliance, were never my social friends. Tanya Tuttle and(At this point Mr. Dare conferred with Mr. Gang and others.)
Mr. DARE. And Mr. White had something to do with a show at the Actors' Lab, which I directed in 1950, early 1950.
Mr. FRAZIER. Do you know of your own knowledge whether these persons that you have mentioned are still members of the Communist Party? 
Mr. DARE. The persons I have mentioned?
Mr. FRAZIER. Yes. 
Mr. DARE. No; I wouldn't have known ever since then, because once I just stopped going-I went to 2 meetings that I can recall, but I am sure that I went to 1, 2, or 3 more, and I was just bored. I couldn't sit around and listen to a lot of talk that I didn't understand. I was just interested in doing something to fight Mr. Hitler. I just stopped going, and I was asked by Mr. White about going to a meeting, and I said, "I'm too nervous. I just can't sit around, and I don't know what you are talking about." Since that time no one has ever told me anything officially about the Communist Party nor have I ever discussed any official business of the Communist Party with them.
Mr. FRAZIER. What year was it when you withdrew your active part? 
Mr. DARE. I was in from around March 1939 to around May 1939, which may explain the fact that I was unaware of things happening around the Hollywood Theater Alliance. I had already been out before the show went into its rehearsal. Therefore, I guess I wasn't taken into confidence and given the reasons why certain materials should be in the show at the time.
Mr. FRAZIER. Thank you very much. 
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Dare, since you severed your connection with the Communist Party, have you attended any functions of the party ?
Mr. DARE. By "functions" you meanMr. JACKSON. Have you attended any meetings of the Communist Party?
Mr. DARE. Oh, never.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you participated in any activities of any Communist-front organizations?
Mr. DARE. Not knowingly, at least, to my knowledge.
Mr. JACKSON. Without your personal knowledge at the time, have you subsequently discovered that you have participated in Communistfront organizations or have had any activity whatever in any organization which has been proscribed as "Communist front"?
Mr. DARE. I may have rone to some of the so-called parties around town during the run of Meet the People, which maybe was raising funds from refugees from Russia, or whatever it was, or Nazi Germany. I wouldn't want to say "I didn't" unless I was pretty sure I didn't.
Mr. JACKSON. Your last association with the Actors' Laboratory was in 1950, I understand.
Mr. DARE. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. The Actors' Laboratory was proscribed as a Communist front by the California Committee on Un-American Activities in their 1947 report, page 74. What was the nature of your work at the laboratory in 1950 ? 288 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. DARE. I would like to preface that by saying that, having lost all interest in so-called leftists, I did not follow the committee's hearings, many committee hearings. I did not keep up with what was considered "Communist front" or wasn't. By early 1950 I again had been unemployed for about a year and a half or more, and Eddie Eliscu and Henry Meyers came to me and said that the Actors' Laboratory wanted to do a show and would I direct it. Not being employed and thinking of it as strictly a commercial venture, I signed a contract to do this show, which I did.
Mr. JACKSON. Who produced this show ?
Mr. DARE. I think it was the Actors' Lab.
Mr. JACKSON. Who directed it?
Mr. DARE. Or a committee from the Actors' Laboratory.
Mr. JACKsoN. Who directed the show?
Mr. DARE. I did.
Mr. JACKSON. You directed it?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Was Morris Carnovsky in any way associated with the production ?
Mr. DARE. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSoN. What was his capacity ?
Mr. DARE. I first met Mr. Carnovsky when I agreed to do the show. They said, "You will have to meet with the committee that is producing it," and this was the first time I met with Mr. Carnovsky, so far as I know. He was on the committee that was producing the show.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you also associated with Albert Maltz in the production of this show?
Mr. DARE. I do not know Mr. Albert Maltz.
Mr. JACKSON. My understanding was that you had mentioned having met him or having last seen him at the Actors' Lab.
Mr. DARE. Oh, no. The only time I mentioned him was in connection with the fact that the Hollywood Theater Alliance produced a play of his, which I had nothing to do with. I was not on the committee that produced that play.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was the play entitled "Zero Hour"?
Mr. DARE. That is correct.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you know, at the time of your association with the Actors' Laboratory in 1950 or several years after its citation as a Communist venture or a Red front, that Mr. Carnovsky had been identified as a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. DARE. No; I didn't.
Mr. JACKSON. Over how long a period of time have you had consecutive residence in the Los Angeles area ?
Mr. DARE. Consecutive?
Mr. JACKSON. Consecutive residence, allowing for short trips to New York or elsewhere.
Mr. DARE. From 1937 to 1950, and then I went to New York for a year and a half, and then back here.
Mr. JACKSON. During that period of time you had no specific knowledge as to the identity of the witnesses before this committee or other duly constituted agencies of Government or of the nature of the testimony they had given? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 289 
Mr. DARE. Not specifically. I was in New York for a year and a half, and of course the newspapers there don't report daily as they do here when the meetings are held here. Actually, I did not follow the meetings of the investigation closely.
Mr. JACKSON. I find that I am in error, and I should like to correct the record. The identification of Mr. Carnovsky, I am told, was in 1951.
Mr. DARE. I still don't know it.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you now prepared to state, Mr. Dare, under the compulsion of your oath, that you have given the committee all of the information in your possession with reference to the meetings you attended and those who attended the meetings who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. DARE. To the best of my knowledge, with one exception, which I have been prepared to name, but we skipped over that part of the story. I remember a fellow by the name of Kelly Glickman attending one meeting.
Mr. JACKSON. Aside from the ones you have already named, you have no personal knowledge of any other members of the Communist Party during the period of time you were in the party ?
Mr. DARE. To the best of my knowledge, no, and I do not remember attending the so-called fraction meeting at which I was named. I remember attending a meeting of the Hollywood Theater Alliance to discuss Mr. Berkeley's play Abraham Lincoln, but as I remember it, it took place in the upper lobby of what was then known as the Music Box Theater, and I do not recall-as a matter of fact, I hardly know Ed Chodorov or George Sklar, and I am positive I have been at no meetings with them, not only Communist meetings, but almost any kind of a meeting.
Mr. JACKSON. You have never attended a meeting in company with any other person or persons whose names you have not given to the committee this morning?
Mr. DARE. That is true, except as I said, the first meeting that I went to must have had about 30 people, and I am sure that the 6 I was later identified with were at that meeting, but who the other people were I couldn't say. I don't remember.
Mr. WALTER. With whom did you go to the first meeting?
Mr. DARE. Mr. White.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question here?
Mr. VELDE. Yes, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I think you said when you were in New York this newspaper was brought to you showing that you had been named by Mr. Berkeley and you said, "I thought I could brazen it out." What did you mean by that? Brazen out what?
Mr. DARE. Well, in the first place, I didn't remember Mr. Berkeley from our party, and still don't, and had been so involved in such a short time I just thought that I could say I wasn't and get away with it. Of course, I didn't know at that time, I didn't realize the seriousness of perjury in front of this committee. I was just thinking of myself and my family, in trying to protect them, and I did the stupid thing on the spur of the moment.
Mr. DOYE. You have just stated with reference to your perjury, and I think that it is clear that you did tell a falsehood in connection 290 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA with your not having been a member of the Communist Party, and you now say you were.
Mr. DARE. That is true.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, it is true that you told a falsehood.
Mr. DARE. That is true. 
Mr. DOYLE. Now, let me ask you this: You know it is a standing offer of this committee, this committee often urges men and women who have been Communists or who are Communists to come forward and volunteer whatever the truth is about their connection with the Communist conspiracy. You know that is true, don't you?
Mr. DARE. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. Now, what can this committee do, if anything, in your judgment, to actively make it more known or more widely known that there is that standing offer by this committee to have American citizens who want to clean up their back connection with the Communist conspiracy, subversive conspiracy? What can we do, if anything, in your judgment, to get more cooperation from men and women who wish to help in our national security against subversive communism? Have you any suggestions?
Mr. DARE. I feel sure, for instance, that had I been approached by an investigator for the committee privately and said, "Look, here is the situation: So and so is going to name you; what about it?" I might not have gotten scared and panicky and probably would have cooperated fully from the first, which I am glad I am doing now.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, we don't have enough employees. We don't have a staff numerically strong enough to send all over the country to tell these people that they have been named.
Mr. DARE. I realize that. 
Mr. DOYLE. You realize that.
Mr. DARE. I realize that; yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Therefore it couldn't be that kind of a program, but is there any inducement, any honest, fair, just inducement that we could make to former Communists or present Communists in this country who want to clean up their conspiratorial record, to come clean and help protect our Nation against this subversive conspiracy ? Have you any suggestions?
Mr. DARE. Well, to me, it would depend a little on how deeply anyone was involved. Had I known the treatment that I would have received from this committee, as I have subsequently learned-incidentally, this was the thing that made me change my mind. I had visions of being persecuted and everybody being down my throat.
Mr. DOYLE. You have been, haven't you ?
Mr. DARE. Well, no.
Mr. DoyLE. You don't mean you have been persecuted ? I thought you had been.
Mr. DARE. Well, I don't think so. As a matter of fact, when I engaged counsel and he put me in touch with the investigator for the committee and certain other people in Hollywood who were trying to tell people who may be accused falsely and I saw the reception I got and the kindness and consideration with which I was treated and that they were honestly trying to help me, I thought I was doing justice, not only to them but to myself and my family, and I said, "Well, look; let's face it, and this is the truth. You have been nice to me and I can't double-cross you and put you out on a limb for me." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 291 Now, I think if that is made known to people, this might do it. Outside of that, I wouldn't know.
Mr. DOYi. Of course, Mr. Dare, the reason I asked you that specific question was to give you an opportunity-I didn't know what your answer would be, but I wanted to give you an opportunity to tell the American people how you had been treated, if you had been treated fairly.
Mr. DARE. Oh, yes. As a matter of fact, I think more than fairly in view of the stupid action that I took originally.
Mr. DoYLE. Thank you.
Mr. VELDE. Does counsel have anything further?
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. VELDE. Mr. Jackson? JACKSON. No further questions. VELDE. Mr. Scherer? 
Mr. SCHERER. I do have just one question. Mr. Dare, at the beginning of your testimony, I believe you stated that at the time you were considering joining the party or when these persons were talking to you about joining the party, you asked them whether or not the Communist Party advocated the overthrow of this Government by force and violence, and I believe you told us at that time they said that it did not advocate the overthrow of this Government by force and violence. Since that time, what is your opinion with reference to the advocacy by the Communist Party today with reference to the overthrow of this Government by force and violence ?
Mr. DARE. Well, I think the courts have decided that that is a fact, that they have been convicted of that very charge by legal evidence.
Mr. SCHERER. I know. The courts have decided that, but I want to know what you think at this time from your experience and your reading and your knowledge of the activities of the Communist Party, whether in your opinion the party does advocate today the overthrow of this Government by force and violence.
Mr. DARE. I would like to make the answer all-embrasive, and I think they would do anything to accomplish whatever their motives are that is necessary, including that.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder?
Mr. MOULDER. No questions.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No further questions.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Frazier?
Mr. FRAZIER. No further questions.
Mr. VELDE. Do you have any further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask one further question?
Mr. VELDE. I would like to finish shortly with this witness, if possible.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dare, you have stated that since the time that you withdrew from the Communist Party that you have taken part in certain activities which would indicate your opposition to communism. I don't know that you have stated definitely what those matters were.
Mr. DARE. And I would like to, if I may. Incidentally, before I say that, I would just like to say that no one I have ever been con- 292 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA nected with or worked with in the Hollywood Theater Alliance has ever worked with me at a picture studio or on television, and I never fraternized or socialized with these people. I would like to bring that out. They were merely people I worked with in the theater. I would like to say that in 1942 I took 4 weeks off at my own expense and traveled with the Hollywood Victory Caravan selling war bonds. I was one of the committee that opened the Hollywood Canteen. I have a citation from both Army Relief and Navy Relief in 1942 commending me for the work I did. During the war I donated blood to the Red Cross 11 times and again in 1951. In 1944 I helped stage the show for Truman when he was running for Vice President here. In 1947 I produced a show for the Variety Clubs of America for underprivileged children. In 1948 I staged a show for Mr. Truman when he was here, when he appeared here to speak for President, when, incidentally, everybody was afraid of backing a losing horse. In 1949, from March to December, I organized and was chairman of a Cub Scout group. In 1949 and 1950, my wife and I worked for the PTA as officials. In 19511 did a show for the Red Cross, a telecast. I have citations from the Big Brothers of America commending me for the work I have done with them.
Mr. VELDE. Is there anything further, counsel?
Mr. TAvENNER. That is all.
Mr. VELDE. IS there any reason why this witness should not be excused
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. VEDE. The witness is excused and the committee will stand in recess until 1:35. (Thereupon, at 12:00 noon, the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at 1:35 p. m., same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (At the hour of 1: 50 p. m., of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, Representatives Harold H. Velde, Donald L. Jackson, Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scherer, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, and James B. Frazier, Jr., being present.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order.
Mr. Counsel, do you have a witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I would like to call Mr. Harold Hecht.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Hecht, will you stand and be sworn ? In the testimony you are about to give before this committee, do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. Miss Reporter, let the record show at this point those present are Mr. Jackson, Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Frazier, and chairman, Mr. Velde, a quorum of the full committee. Proceed, Mr. Counsel. ............. - THE LOS ANGELES AREA 293 TESTIMONY OF HAROLD ADOLPH HECHT, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS 