Mr. RAKSIN. I have had the advice of counsel and I do not require him at this time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state your full name, please, sir.
Mr. RAKSIN. My name is David Raksin, R-a-k-s-i-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Raksin ? 
Mr. RAKSIN. I was born in Philadelphia, Pa., August 4,1912.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I reside in Northridge, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in California ? 
Mr. RAKSIN. I have lived in California since 1936, with one previous trip out here for a short 7 or 8 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I am a composer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state briefly for the committee what your educational training has been for your profession.
Mr. RAKSIN. For my profession?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I say your general education in brief.
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, my general education began in the public schools of Philadelphia. I then went to Central High School in Philadelphia and I then went to the University of Pennsylvania, from which I graduated. I also studied music almost all my life.  1683 
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee a little about your professional experience. By that I mean, what has been the nature of your work?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, I have done everything from playing in dance bands to arranging and orchestrating music for dance bands to musical shows, to radio programs. I have written music for all kinds of things from the serious theater to ballet. I have conducted. I also, in the last 15 years or so, have composed music for films.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are some of the principal productions with which you have been connected in your work ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, I have worked on so many. But Smokey, The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, Forever Amber, The Magnificent Yankee, The Next Voice You Hear, Whirlpool. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That is sufficient. Mr. Raksin, at the close of the session yesterday, Mr. Martin Berkeley was called before the committee in executive session and in the course of his testimony in executive session he informed the committee that for a period of time you had been a member of the Communist Party. I would like to ask you whether or not that advice to the committee is correct.
Mr. RAKSIN. It is, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you become a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. RAKSIN. In the summer of 1938. I date it from around my birthday, which is in August.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in the Communist Party ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I remained there until either February or March 1940. I take that from several facts, among which is by the time the attack into the Lowlands, the Netherlands, came about, I had been out for some time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee the circumstances under which you were recruited into the Communist Party ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I will, sir. I would like to avoid making a long pious speech of the things in which I believed, but I will say simply this, that those times were heartbreaking times to anyone who wished to see integrity and decency abroad in the world. Specifically, I will say that to stand by and watch the terrible thing that was happening in Spain and the equally terrible things that were happening in other countries, made one wonder about the whole world. Again I think I should cut this short. I don't want to moralize. I had belonged to several organizations, such as the Musicians Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy, and another medical committee which I think gave concerts in order to raise money-it was called the North American Committee or something-to raise money to send ambulances and medical things to Spain. In such groups as this there are always some Communists and these Communists being aware of one's liberal sympathies and feelings are not slow to exploit any opportunity they can find. I think I was asked several times if I would join the party, but I did not wish to. Finally things got worse and worse and I said to myself that the individuality and the integrity that I thought I was protecting was possibly just being unwilling to work with other people on other terms. It was a time, as I say, of heartbreak and despair, because all of these well-intentioned committees did no good. Perhaps they 81595-51-pt. 5-4 1684  saved lives and ameliorated pain, but they didn't stop any wars. Nobody seemed to be providing any leadership of the kind which might be able to stop wars. Somewhere around that time somebody asked me if I would join, and failing the actual memory of exactly what happened, I say that that is when I finally joined. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand from your statement that you are unable to recall the individual who actually recruited you into the party? \ Mr. RAKSIN. I think I recall the individual who recruited me now.
Mr. TAVENNER. You think you do?
Mr. RAKSIN. I think I do; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would be glad for you to tell the committee.
Mr. RAKSIN. His name was Mischa Altman, A-l-t-m-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. After your admission to the Communist Party were you assigned to any particular group or cell?
Mr. RAKSIN. I was assigned to a class which was a group of people, I presume, who were getting their first information about the way the Communist Party was supposed to work, and who were taught by a teacher and who met, I think, once a week.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did those meetings take place ?
Mr. RAKSIN. They took place in a small house which was west of La Brea and somewhere between Hollywood Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the meetings always take place at the same address?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, the meetings of this class did, I think. 
Mr. TAVENNER. After attending these classes did you meet in group meetings with members of the Communist Party?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, this class was made into a group after a time. I don't know. I think some people may have drifted in and somebody left to go into another group.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many composed this group to which you refer? 
Mr. RAKSIN. I don't know. I think about five or six.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that the number in the beginning?
Mr. RAKSIN. I think that was the number just about throughout. Somebody, as I say, left the group and when it became no longer a class, and actually a group, somebody went into another unit in which I later encountered that same person. 
Mr. TAVENNER. After this group developed into the cell of the Communist Party to which you have referred, did other persons unite with it and become members of it?
Mr. RAKSIN. To the best of my recollection nobody actually united with this group and remained there. I remember that somebody might come in, but I am not sure whether it was a guest or just somebody coming in to see how things were going.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the Communist Party lecturer who instructed your group ?
Mr. RAKSIN. This was a Dr. Lee, and I presume he is the man who appeared here yesterday. He was a small man, he was a doctor, he had a moustache, he was slight, had a balding head and he was a very quiet man who just said what he had to say. COMMlISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1685 
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of a witness who appeared yesterday. Did you see the witness to whom you are referring.
Mr. RAKSIN. I did not. Maybe he didn't appear yesterday. His name is Dr. Lee Bigelman.
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't understand the last name.
Mr. RAKSIN. Bigelman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the spelling of the name ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I am not sure. I don't really know. All I know is that I knew him as Dr. Lee, and I subsequently found that it was indeed Bigelman.
Mr. WooD. They are having a little difficulty hearing you. Would you mind speaking a little louder, please ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I am having a little difficulty hearing you. You referred to the individual by his first name ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes. I said that he was known then to me as Dr. Lee. Everyone called him Dr. Lee. In fact, nobody called anybody by any last names. But later he became known to me and I gather that he was the same man who was known as Dr. Lee Bigelman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether his first name was Lee or Leo?
Mr. RAKSIN. That I don't know, sir. I heard that a man had been called Dr. Leo Bigelman, who was here the other day, but since I do not wish to testify about anything that I cannot really say I know, I will say that we called him Dr. Lee. And, as I say, I presume this is the same man.
Mr. TAVENNER. In reading of the daily press did you see the picture of the person who appeared yesterday by the name of Dr. Leo Bigelman ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I did not.
Mr. TAVENNER. We will try to procure it and see if you can make a more positive identification, because I understand that there is more than one Dr. Bigelman in the city.
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes; I know that. Well, I can say this, that this is not the man who is an eye specialist because I visited this man once in about 1937 or so and he gave me eyeglasses. And this is certainly not the same man at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the first name of the Dr. Bigelman who furnished you the eyeglasses?
Mr. RAKSIN. I don't, but I always thought it was the same man. I always thought that his name was Dr. Leo Bigelman, or something.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the names of those who were associated with you in this group of which you were a member ?
Mr. RAKSIN. There was a girl named Billie, there was an old ladyMr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. Do you know the last name?
Mr. RAKSIN. No; I do not. As I have said before, these people were known probably for reasonsof not wanting anybody to know who they really were, as first names only. Unless you knew someone outside a group you did not know the second name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well.
Mr. RAKSIN. This was a girl named Billie, there was an old lady whose name was Bessie, she was a small and red-haired, rather fragile woman. There was a tall, bald fellow named Harold, who didn't 1686 stay very long, and there was a man named Bernard, who I was told had formerly been a Catholic priest. of the group. And these were the members 
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of your Communist Party mem- bership did you meet other persons who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I met some. I changed groups after having been in this one for a while. Exactly how long I don't know. But I asked to be moved into another group for the reason that I wanted to be ,somewhere where problems more akin, or questions more akin to my kind of thinking were discussed, and I felt that these would certainly be one of the groups where there were writers. I asked to be put into such a group and for a little while I was there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the members of that group ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Richard Collins, Budd Schulberg, Waldo Salt, Paul Jarrico, and I can't think who else.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Collins was a director, I believe-no, Mr. Collins was a writer.
Mr. RAKsIN. Yes, Richard Collins.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether there was a director in yourgroup ?
Mr. RAKSIN. In this group, as far as I know, there was not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you learn to know within the Communist Party any director of the studioMr. RAKSIN. I did indeed. This was Frank Tuttle, who is a motion- picture director.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever attend Communist Party meetings in_ his home?
Mr. RAKSIN. I did attend a couple of them at his home.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there other directors known to you to be- members of the Communist Party, that is of your own personal knowledge?
Mr. RAKSIN. There was a man named Herbert Biberman who was there, and there were certainly no other directors that I knew there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Bernice Fraser
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes. Bernice Fraser was an old woman who was in ill health and she was in a group to which I was subsequently transferred, but to which I really did not go, inasmuch as when I went to this group I said that I didn't want to be a part of its deliberations, that I would help in any larger group work that was involved, and do anything I could, but that I did not wish to sit in any of those little deliberations where tiny points are discussed endlessly and practically forever. She was a member of that group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become acquainted with any of the functionaries of the Communist Party whose names you can now recall?
Mr. RAKSIN. There is one who I believe to have been a Communist Party functionary, and another I have heard named as a Communist, Party functionary, who was certainly a teacher. The Communist Party functionary I recall was a woman named Madelaine Ruthven,, who has been previously identified here. The other was John Howard Lawson, who used to come and lecture occasionally.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the extent of your acquaintanceship, with Madelaine Ruthven?  1687 
Mr. RAKSIN. I went several times to her house when I was requested to do so after something I said in the course of some meeting or other had been taken exception to by someone. In other words, I said something of which, apparently, they did not approve, and I was summoned, and she spoke to me about this.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you had deviated from the acccepted policy in your thinking?
Mr. RAKSIN. Apparently so.
Mr. TAVENNER. At least, in the expression of your thoughts ?
Mr. RAKSIN. uite so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as a result of your having deviated from the accepted line of thinking at the time, you were reported to the leaders of the Communist Party?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, apparently somebody told Miss Ruthven that I had taken some position which was considered to be wrong by them or to be at variance with their point of view.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall what that related to?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, there were two or three. One was-I don't know the chronological order, but one was when I became very incensed over the disciplining of certain composers in the Soviet Union, men like Shostakovich and Prokofieff for whom I had great admiration.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell those, please.
Mr. RAKSIN. Shostakovich is S-h-o-s-t-a-k-o-v-i-c-h and Prokofieff is P-r-o-k-o-f-i-e-f-f. Another timeMr. TAVENNER. Just a moment before leaving that. Tell the committee more about what you objected to with regard to these composers.
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, I felt that they were men of great talent and that if they chose to explore paths which led off the beaten track and if they chose to indulge in experiments as artists which were not immediately comprehensible to people who were not schooled in listening to music, that they should not be disciplined therefor, and that they should be permitted to do this, and that this was the very breath and blood of art, and the position of the Communist Party at the time seems to have been that these men were servants of something and, at all costs, had to be made to toe the line.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it was the view of the Communist Party that these individuals, these noted men, should use their art as a weapon?
Mr. RAKSIN. Oh, I wouldn't say as a weapon, but that they felt that they should be-that they should submerge any desire to do anything special or extremely personal which might not be understood by everybody, and that my own feeling was that this is not possible to a composer of any kind.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, who was it that exerted this form of censorship or thought control upon these artists?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, the censure of these men was printed in Soviet newspapers and it was written by several men. I am not exactly sure who they were, nor did I read very much of the actual terms of the articles censuring them, but they were very strong, and I objected to them.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you know what became of those artists after that? 1688  
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, they continued to work. The one in whom I am most interested, if it is of any interest at all to anyone, is Prokofieff and to the best of my knowldege he is now a very ill man with a heart ailment, struggling to write as much music as he can before he is no longer able to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you came to the defense of those artists who were endeavoring to apply their own genius to their profession?
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That did not meet with the approval of the Com- Smunist Party group to which you were assigned, so that you were disciplined for it ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, I would scarcely call it exactly disciplined, sir, but I will say that probably what bothered them most of all was that I said at one point in the argument, which was a hot argument, that if the economic directors and commissars of the Soviet Union had as much ability at their jobs as Mr. Prokofieff had at his, there would be no economic problem in the Soviet Union.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that the expression which brought down the ire of your associates upon you?
Mr. RAKSIN. I would say it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. So you were reported to the functionary, Made- laine Ruthven ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I was, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, that was that instance. Will you give us other instances in which you were criticized or censored or reported for disciplinary action?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, liberals are forever having an inner argument about the ends and the means. Things like this were subjects of discussion. Another thing that apparently got me into trouble was that we began to discuss the ends and the means, and it was my feeling that sometimes, in pursuit of noble ends, ignoble means were necessary, but I said, "Whenever the means arrive at a point where they, themselves, are so terrible that they debase the man that does these deeds, it is time to examine not only the substance of the means but the end, itself," and I was told that this was bourgeois thinking, to which I subscribed.
Mr. TAVENNER. And as a result were you again reported to the functionary ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Madelaine Ruthven?
Mr. RAKSIN. I was, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you censured for that?
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes. Miss Ruthven told me that she thought I should be more prudent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were there other instances?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, the only other one I can remember is that in a discussion of the novel, I held-itrwas not my original view but one which I respected-that in endeavoring to instill the consciousness of social events into works of art, those men who did this deliberately at the expense of the work of art, itself, were making a great mistake and producing neither something which would affect people, nor something which would be a good work of art, and I submitted as an example the Comedy Humane of Balzac, which I seem to have known better at the time than I appear to now, principally because  1689 I was then reading it, and I said that the effort to be socially conscious had hampered certain works of literature. I am certainly no critic of literature, but this was my feeling, and again I was told that my judgment was certainly questionable.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what action was taken as a result of your expression of your own judgment regarding the novel?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, nothing terrible happened. I just went to see 
Miss Ruthven and we talked about this.
Mr. TAVENNER. I mean, were you reported to Miss Ruthven?
Mr. RAKSIN. Oh, apparently somebody went to Madelaine Ruthven and said, "This fellow has been at it again," and I am sorry to say that people like me quibble over points like this all the time, and I felt that I had to hold to this point, and I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were endeavoring to express your own independent thought and opinion?
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes, sir; I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And that was considered dangerous?
Mr. RAKSIN. It wasn't considered dangerous, sir, if I may say so. It was just thought and expressed to me that other people, who were perhaps less capable of making such "fine"-and I put that word in quotes-differentiations would perhaps be thrown off the path of possible action in some cause or other.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you submit to this type of thought control?
Mr. RAKSIN. If I may say so, sir, I never submitted to it at all. Mi. TAVENNER. Well, how long did you endure it by remaining a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, I began not to go very much in the late spring of 1939, and in 1940-no 1939, and into the summer, and into the fall. When there is something you don't want to do, you find ample excuses, I suppose, not to do it, and I had a very valid one, which was that in my work it was frequently necessary for me to work all day and most of the night, and a 140-hour week was not unknown to me, and I have worked it many times, and I said, "I can't come," so I didn't, and sometimes I went to meetings and sometimes I didn't go, and at the end of-I don't know for sure whether I am answering the question you asked me, but if you are asking me how and when I got out, Mr. Tavenner-is that your question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I am just wondering how long you were willing to stay in the Communist Party under the circumstances which you have described. 
Mr. RAKSIN. I was in the Communist Party altogether about a year and a half, of which in the beginning I went fairly regularly and at the end hardly at all. In fact, the last few months I went once, perhaps twice. The once I remember was when I went to say that I was not coming any more, and that was after a considerable period of not having gone any more, because I was in New York for about a month and a half-I don't know-and before that I had been work- ing on a day and night job for 5 or 6 weeks.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is there any other statement you desire to make regarding the severance of your connection with the Communist Party ? I would like for you to state it if you have.
Mr. RAKSIN. If I can say it briefly, I would like to say simply this: That I left the Communist Party after my sentiments had undergone a 1690  considerable change. When the Russo-German Pact was signed I was very much disturbed by it, and I felt it to be a very cynical and oppor- tunistic piece of business but, certainly, no more cynical or opportunistic.than was to be found in other places in the world, but when the fruits of this pact began to show themselves in the position that arms were not be be sent to England and that convoys were not to accom- pany-armed ships were not to accompany these ships, I said that this was our war and that if we were not in it now we were due to be in it shortly, and that arms should be sent to England; that ships should bb sent, instructed to fire upon anyone trying to stop the ships, and it was naturally impossible for me to continue with this point of view, so I left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, notwithstanding you left the Communist Party, as you described, the committee has information that after that time you were affiliated in one way or another with certain activities which have been called to the attention of the committee from time to time and which the committee, from its investigation, considered to have been instigated by members of the Communist Party, so I think I should ask you about that and ask you to tell us the circumstances under which you did affiliate in those movements, if you did. For instance, there appears in the Daily People's World of November 6, 1948, a column headed "Notables condemn witch hunt." In the article, it is urged th-at contempt charges against 10 political prisoners be dismissed and dismissal of the grand jury which subpenaed the 10 persons is also demanded. Now, among the names appearing as being persons signing this appeal or letter, appears your name. We would like to know how your support of that movement was secured or how you entered into it, if you did.
Mr. RAKSIN. I can't be sure that I did, but I will certainly not say that I deny it, since I don't know whether I did or not. All I can say is that if you will tell me the name of whatever committee it wasprobably some committee which said, "Give us five bucks; we want to do something about" this or that, and I could have signed.. I didn't cease to be a liberal, sir, when I left. In fact, I left because I was a liberal.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand, and it is no matter of criticism that a person may disagree with the work of this committee or that they criticize it, if that is what you are referring to, but we are interested to know to what extent that emanates from the Communist Party and to what extent it is a Communist Party line that has been impressed upon other organizations. I hand you the article in question and ask you to look at it, and it may refresh your recollection about it. Well, all I would say from this is that this would have impressed me at the time as an effort of the liberal party of this community. To whatever extent its origin is in the Communist Party is no part of my personal knowledge, sir, and I signed it because, among other things, the make-up of this committee and its actions at that time were quite different from the committee which now exists.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has heard testimony regarding the Hollywood Quarterly which according to my recollection, was a publication of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. I have before me excerpts from the Hollywood Quarterly, volume 2, April 1947,
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes.  1691 which reflects that you appeared on the frontispiece of the magazine as being a member of the advisory committee on music. We would like to know just how your services were procured in connection with that enterprise.
Mr. RAKSIN. First, sir, may I say that there were no services, but I would like to say that I am on that masthead because when this magazine was formed, those who had participated in the various panels of the Writers' Congress, and I, myself, was on the panel of musiciansMr. TAVENNER. That was back in-when, 1943?
Mr. RAKSIN. I'm sorry.
Mr. TAVENNER. October.
Mr. RAKSIN. My memory for dates, sir, is not notable.
Mr. TAVENNER. In October 1943.
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes; but the members of the various panels wound up on the advisory committee. I, myself, felt that this magazine was an attempt by the Writers' Mobilization and the University of California at Los Angeles to form a magazine of scholarly-a scholarly magazine, I would say, that would come from out here, and I was honored to be on that board with other people, but I must say that we never, to my knowledge, held a meeting of any kind at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it was just a question of putting on that masthead the names of prominent people who never had functioned, never performed a service?
Mr. RAKSIN. There were some people who-there was a small committee-I think they are set apart on the top, or something like that, of the masthead, and these were the people who edited the magazine. They were professors.
Mr. TAVENNER. But as far as these special committees were concerned, it was just a question of window dressing, wasn't it?
Mr. RAKSIN. I suppose so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has your connection with the Communist Party been terminated completely and definitely?
Mr. RAxsIN. It has, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I believe that is all.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Raksin, you have testified that you left the Communist Party because you were a liberal. Do I understand you to mean that the Communist Party is not a liberal party organizationMF. RAKSIN. Well, sir, I don't know.
Mr. WALTER. Or movement
Mr. RAKSIN. I don't think-it is a liberal movement, but it is not an organization of liberals. A liberal organization to my mind is one which encourages freedom and even dissidence of thought on the theory that it is better for such thought to be heard and refuted or justified than to lie festering somewhere.
Mr. WALTER. I want to say to you that with a 20-year record in the Congress of the United States as a liberal, these people that have affixed themselves to the Democratic Party are making it ever increasingly difficult for we liberals to accomplish what we have set out to accomplish. Who is this Madelaine Ruthven ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Ruthven?
Mr. WALTER. Ruthven.; yes. 1692 She was just a woman who had a position of some sort, and she was a very mild woman, and I found her quite reasonable.
Mr. W.LTER. What do you know about her background?
Mr. RAKSIN. I lulow nothing about her except I heard she was a
Mr. RAKSIN. poetess. 
Mr. WALTER. It was she who undertook to censor you because of the position that you took in matters that she probably knew nothing aboutMr. RAKSIN. Well, sirMr. WALTER. Or very little ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Willing to be honest, I can only say that, since I have no knowledge of what she really knew, I don't know whether she knew better than I or not, but havingMr. WALTER. Did you ever have any voice in placing her in this position of censorship that she occupied!
Mr. RAKSIN. NO, sir; I did not.
Mr. WALTER. Did any of the rank-and-file members of this group have anything to do with her selection ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Insofar as I know, they certainly did not.
Mr. WALTER. In other words, she was just assigned to a job ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Quite right.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. DOYLE. I wish to supplement Congressman Walter's statement about these folks attaching themselves to the liberal movement, destroying it. I think that is literally true. When these Communists secretly infiltrate into liberal movements, they do it partially with the purpose of setting up a dictatorship instead of liberalism, but I want to ask you, sir, because of the number of years now you have been voluntarily out of the Communist Party, whether or not you have any suggestions to this committee and through this committee to the United States Congress as to any legislation which should be considered part of the text of the statute under which we operate, Public Law 601, which expressly charges this committee with recommending to Congress legislation for remedial legislation in the field of subversive un-American activities. Can you help us ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, sir, I don't know that I can help.
Mr. DoYLE. Well, try to.
Mr. RAKSIN. I know this, that if you are asking me whether I think laws should be passed outlawing the Communist Party I would say "No," and the reason I would say "No" is this: That I think that when it comes to an overt act of any kind, or something which is really dangerous to the welfare of the United States, there are plenty -of things to cover this, such as Mr. Hoover. And my own feeling, as 1 have just said-I don't wish to appear to think of myself as a social -scientist or something, but I would rather hear people talk and say :all kinds of things out in the open and be in a position where by free expression of thought against any error, that error can be brought down to earth, than have that thought lie somewhere, as I said before, festering.
Mr. DOYLE. Possibly you heard this morning one witness, or perhlaps it was early this afternoon, state that this committee was destroying peace or defiling peace; is that your appraisement?
Mr. RAKSIN. I do not feel that that is so, sir.  1693 
Mr. DOYLE. What is your judgment, as you have looked back these several years, of the functioning of this sort of a committee by Congress ? Is it of benefit or otherwise ?
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, sir, if you will give me permission to limit what I think to this committeeMr. DOYLE. That is what I am asking.
Mr. RAKSIN. This which examines me today, I would say this, strange as it may sound coming from me, I think this committee has done one extremely beneficial thing, and that is that heretofore there has been a notion abroad in the United States that Hollywood is infested, it is often overrun-you may choose any verb-with Communists. I think that this investigation has proved and will continue to prove that at the most there were not more than a couple of hundred, and that only a very small few were zealots who have remained, and that the notion is for once and all dispelled that subversive doctrines were insinuated into films. I never heard of one being in a picture.
Mr. DOYLE. You would feel then that this committee, without knowing what the ultimate answer would be, has been diligent in getting at the facts and the truth, whatever it was?
Mr. RAKSIN. I think that the truth has come out and that this truth is that the people in this film business, for which I am not an apologist, that there people are like practically everyone else, you might say, only more so, since they work at greater concentration, and that whatever they did was done out of human impulses, that there were never more than a few; I myself cannot conceive of anyone I met putting the interest of any other country before his own.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Raksin, I would like to say in connection with service on this committee that it is sometimes a very thankless task, sometimes a very difficult task, but that it is simply a task, it is a duty that is imposed upon the members of the committee by the Congress of the United States acting as the representatives of the American people. We do not seek out the assignment; the assignment is given to us. It is as much a duty as any of the other many things that we are required to do as a part of our official duties. I don't think that that is commonly understood. I think you said during the course of your testimony that you joined the Communist Party because of a desire to see a restoration of decency and integrity throughout the world. I think that is one of the reasons you gave.
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, it is something like that, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you, out of your experience, find that the Com- munist Party was a vehicle which was dedicated, or which gave any promise of bringing about the restoration that you, as an artist, were seeking?
Mr.nAKSIN. I don't wish to rephrase your question, sir, but it was I as a human being who was seeking this thing. This was not justified; I did not find this in the Communist Party; and when in time I came to measure what I sought against what I found, I had to leave.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you, Mr. Raksin, discussed your appearance before this committee with any person other than your attorney ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I have discussed it; yes. 1694 INDUSTRY 
Mr. JACKSON. Have any attempts been made to dissuade you from making an appearance and testifying before the committee?
Mr. iAKSIN. No one has endeavored to dissuade me at all. In fact I have discussed it with only a very few people, because when a thing like this happens and everything is so long ago in the past it's a difficult thing to hold onto all by yourself.
Mr. JACKSON. Referring back to the case of the convicted 10, and the article to which counsel called your attention, do you feel in light of what has transpired with respect to the 10, with further respect to identifications that have been made with respect to most of them if 'not all of them as active members of the Communist Party, that they were in truth and in fact political prisoners of the United States of America ?
Mr. RAKSIN. I wouldn't say they were political prisoners, sir. My own feeling would be that I am very sorry for any man who has all his life pursued an art or a craft and finds himself in prison.
Mr. JACKSON. I can understand your sympathy. But, of course,. they were not in prison because of any pursuit of their arts or crafts, simply because they were found guilty of contempt of the institutions, the ideals, the traditions, and the laws of the United States. That is quite a different matter. I think as far as their arts and crafts were concerned they might be deserving of some sympathy; but, as far as their contempt is concerned, I certainly can find no reason or any grounds for sympathy. 
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, Mr. Jackson, I have made it clear, I think,. that I am not in opposition to anything concerning-I think I put this badly-but anything concerning the welfare of the United States. But I have never made a differentiation of any kind. I don't want to sound pious about people who are in trouble. You see, I must say this, some of these people I knew, some I didn't. And I couldn't conceive of some of those fellows doing anything really to harm anybody.
Mr. JACKSON. I understand your feeling, and that feeling was held very close to the hearts of very many of the liberals-I quote that as you quoted the word a while ago-a very many of the liberals, the Communists, the fellow travelers, the intellectual pinkos, in the case of Alger Hiss, whose only error was a little matter of taking top secrets from the United States Government and transferring them to a foreign power. Now, he, too, was a great liberal. He was connected with the board of the Carnegie Foundation for World Peace. A man to whom this Nation had given every possible opportunity, and still there were those, and there probably still are those, who consider that he was just a poor, misguided boy who never had a chance. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Potter? 
Mr. PorrER. Mr. Raksin, you stated that you joined the Communist Party because you were a liberal. Mr. Edward Dmytryk, who was a member, or one of the Hollywood 10, testified before our committee after serving his sentence and he made a statement that the same liberalism that took him into the party took him out of the party. Would you care to comment on that as it affected you?
Mr. RAKSIN. Yes. The same liberalism which took me in took me out.  1695 
Mr. POTTER. As a liberal, as you have stated you are, that is a term that is very hard to define nowadays, you believe in freedom of discussion, freedom of utilizing your own ideas. And it is interesting to note that in the Communist Party, the very organ that many liberals fall into at times, that freedom of discussion, according to their own doctrine, is not permitted. Now, I wish to quote again(At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. POTTER. From a photostat of a pamphlet that I have referred to many times through the course of this investigation. This is The Communist Party, a Manual on Organization, and testimony has been given before the committee that this has been used as more or less of a Communist Party bible in many areas. Let me quote you a paragraph from the section on party discussion and freedom to criticize. I wish to quote just this one paragraph, and I quote : We cannot imagine a discussion, for example, questioning the correctness of the leading role of the proletariat in the revolution, or the necessity for the proletarian dictatorship. We do not question the theory of the necessity for the forceful overthrow of capitalism. We do not question the correctness of the revolutionary theory of the class struggle laid down by Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin. We do not question the counterrevolutionary nature of Trotskyism. Now, that is a part of their own manual where you cannot question so-called basic principles of the party. And I assume you probably weren't a very good member of the Communist Party because you did question certain principles and it took you out of the party and you were at least censured for them.
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, I just don't think that most of the people I knew were good members, because they used to question them all the time. I questioned them; most certainly I questioned them.
Mr. POTTER. From what experience you have had in the party, and knowing world conditions today, would you say that a person that is active in the Communist Party of today and subject to party discipline can at the same time be a loyal American ? (At this time Representative John S. Wood returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. RAKSIN. Well, I would say that anybody who accepts that word for word cannot be a loyal American, but I just don't see anybody accepting anything like that word for word, sir, if I may.
Mr. POTTER. We have had testimony after testimony, and you well know how when the party line switches they all flip over. Some drop out; some can't take it. But others do that. And they will talk one way today, and when the party line switches they will talk another way tomorrow. Those people are subject to party discipline and accept party discipline. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. This doesn't apply to the witness, but yesterday, when Martin Berkeley, the witness, concluded his testimony, I was absent, and at that time did not have an opportunity to compliment him on his vigorous cooperation with this committee. I want the record to now show that I do so at this time. I was in conference with the deputy attorney general of my State on the tidelands oil matter. 1 See appendix printed in separate volume. 1696  I also wish at this time to read into the record, if I may, a letter addressed to Mr. Berkeley from the Verdugo Hills Post, No. 288, American Legion, Post Office Box 288, Montrose, Calif.
Mr. MARTIN BERKELEY, Care of House Un-American Activities Committee, Federal Building, Los Angeles, Calif. DEAR Ma. BERKELEY: Verdugo Hills Post, No. 288, of the American Legion, unanimously voted to extend to you our deepest appreciation. Your appearance before the House Un-American Activities Committee, at sacrifice to yourself, on behalf of your country will greatly assist the forces of free'dom throughout the world. We are asking other patriotic organizations to join us in this expression of thanks. Sincerely, EUGENE JACK POTTER, Commander. I would like, Mr. Chairman, to have this filed with the records.
Mr. WooD. It will be filed. Any further questions from counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Permit me to join the other members of the committeein expressing to you the committee's very deep appreciation for your cooperation and the information you have given the committee. I feel that it has been most helpful to us in our work and you have made a very valuable contribution to the American people and you haveour sincere thanks.
Mr. RAKSIN. Thank you. 
Mr. WOOD. We have only 30 more minutes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe we can finish with this witness in that time.
Mr. William Blowitz.
Mr. WOOD. Are you Mr. Blowitz?
Mr. BLOWITZ. Yes, I am.
Mr. WOOD. Raise your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give this subcommittee shall be thetruth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BLOWITZ. Yes, I do. TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM BLOWITZ 