Mrs. WILSON. Elizabeth Wilson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you any relation to Michael Wilson, who testified here a few days ago?
Mrs. WILSON. No; I am not. 
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mrs. WILsoN. I
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mrs. WILSON. I
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mrs. Wilson? was born in Tulsa, Okla., in 1914. Can you hear? will sit closer. If you will try to speak as though you were speak- ing directly to me, I believe everyone will hear you.
Mrs. WILSON. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you live in Los Angeles?
Mrs. WILsoN. Yes; I do. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived here?
Mrs. WILSON. For most of my life.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what your general educational training has been?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes. high school. Public schools in Los Angeles, ending with 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have a profession or occupation?  1717 
Mrs. WILSON. Yes; I am a screen writer, a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in that work?
Mrs. WILSON. I have been engaged as a screen writer for a little more than a year. Before that I sold magazine stories.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you any film credits for screen writing?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes; I do. Because I am a woman they are, naturally, westerns. The last one was an unentitled western treatment at Fox, and the one before that was a screen play from my own original, The Cave, at Universal, and this was really my first movie job.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been connected with the moving- picture industry in Hollywood ?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, you see, my mother was employed by the industry; so, I have had an indirect relation to it all my life.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Wilson, during the course of the testimony in executive session of Mr. Martin Berkeley several days ago you were identified as having been a member of the Communist Party under the name of Betty Anderson.
Mrs. WILSON. That was my maiden name, and that is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were a member of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. For how long a period of time were you a member?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, from the period adjoining and approximating 1937, with many years in total inactive, during which I did not sever the affiliation but was inactive, a period of reactivity in late 1946, ending late 1947.
Mr. WooD. Will you please suspend here just a moment? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (A discussion was had off the record.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I am certain you understand the objectives of this committee in its investigation of the extent of Communist infiltration into the moving-picture industry.
Mrs. WILSON. I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to aid the committee in such manner as you can by giving the benefit of your information regarding Communist Party activities or Communist-front activities during the period that you have been associated with the party. I believe I should ask you first, however, to tell the committee the circumstances under which you became a member of the party.
Mrs. WILSON. I think it springs from school and the fact that in school, by virtue of having close personal friends who were of minority groups, I very early developed a strong feeling against discrimination against minority groups, and this was sort of the basic common denominator which I think led through a series of steps, and, I think, finally into the party. I left high school to hold a job. It was in a book store, and I worked here for the better part of 2 years, and while I worked in the book store someone offered me a job in the newly opened offices of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. The book store that you spoke of, was it connected or affiliated in any manner with the Communist Party?
Mrs. WILSON. None whatsoever. It was most bohemian, but it was not-it was a Hollywood book store and in no way- 1718  
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. If you will continue. You spoke of having become active in the Anti-Nazi League.
Mrs. WILSON. Somebody, perhaps, knew my feeling in the matter,. felt that I would be interested in working for an anti-Nazi organization, and I was, very. The organization had been in existence for some months before it opened offices, and I became one of several secretaries initially employed at the point when it opened offices. I should. say that was in mid-1936, and the organization was very exciting and I liked working there very much. I remember my first official act very well. I sat in an empty office and a gentleman I had never seen before, Herbert Biberman, opened the door and said, "Are you Miss Anderson ?" And I said, "Yes," and he said, "Take a letter." And he said, "Adolph Hitler, The Reichschancellery, Berlin: In the name of humanity, I protest outrages," and so on and so on. And this was the first of-literally my first act on the job in the organization, and it was a wire, actually, that was finally sent, and it was a good one, and I began, in other words, in a secretarial capacity and as is the history of all well-meaning organizations with boards busy elsewhere, many jobs devolved upon us in the office. We were really engaged in tremendous activity, and I found it all very exciting and constructive, and I believed in it. Decision did not often devolve on us. I might add that it was probably as the result of my enjoyment of this work and my agreement with it that a few months after I started working there I was invited to join a Marxist study group. It was pointed out that Marxists were active in the fight against fascism and I was very casually curious and more than willing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, in the course of your work with the Anti-Nazi League, did you come in contact with persons whom you later learned to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether Mrs. Beatrice Buchman was. active in the work of the Anti-Communist League?
Mrs. WILSON. It was an anti-Nazi league.
Mr. TAVENNER. I mean, Anti-Nazi League. Excuse me.
Mrs. WILSON. She was very active; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to learn whether or not she- was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, inasmuch as I never did see her in a formal group or on any other terms than what might be personal deductionyou can have that, if you want-it would be a matter of personal deduction because I was-our relationship was marked by the absence of any contact in formal party activity.
Mr. TAVENNER. No. I would rather for you not to state just a personal conclusion. If you have any facts that you can give to the committee so the committee could draw its own conclusion, why, it would be, I think, satisfactory, but it would only be facts that you knowof first-hand.
Mrs. WILsoN. On this subject?
Mr. TAVENNER. As to the Communist Party membership of anyone.
Mrs. WILSON. Oh. Well, yes. Perhaps-I mean, eventually, after several steps I came to know, through a formal party group, many people who were active in the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. May wer do it that way ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.  1719 
Mrs. WILSON. This followed a year in the Young Communist League ;group, the year of 1937-I should say following a little study group to which I belonged, and finally I don't remember the circumstances, but I was transferred into the Communist Party itself, somewhere early in 1938, I should judge, into a branch whose concentration was the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, and this branch included names, some of which you are terribly familiar with. Madelaine Ruthven, Jack Lawson-John Howard Lawson, that is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you go a little more slowly, please, and raise your voice a little. I am not certain that I understood those names.
Mrs. WILSON. Madelaine Ruthven, John Howard Lawson, Herbert and Gale Biberman, Sonja Dahl, Lou and Vera Harris, Herta Uerkvitz, I believe, Jessie Burns.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. What was the name? 
Mrs. WILSON. Jessie Burns. I think she was a part of this group. I at least saw her at Mrs. Ruthven's house on an occasion, as I remember a party occasion. And Sam and Sadie Ornitz.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned the name of Sonja Dahl. Do you know her married name ? 
Mrs. WILSON. Biberman, Mrs. Edward Biberman.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was during the course of what meetings you be- came acquainted with those persons ? 
Mrs. WILSON. These were-by the way, I might add that these are the only faces that I can establish beyond guesswork as having seen them at Communist Party branch meetings. You will remember that this is some years ago and that the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League was an explosively growing organization. In 1 year it obtained between six and seven thousand members and it was infinitely subdivided into commissions and committees and subcommittees, and all of these met, and I seemed to be meeting with all of them. This is a matter of record. These people, however, I am sure, or I would not have said so, were present at branch meetings whose concentration, while I was in the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, was the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish you would tell us a little more about the functioning of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. Was it engaged in the raising of funds ? 
Mrs. WILSON. It was engaged-in the beginning I understand it was ambitious to really raise funds beyond its own functioning, to send for the relief of refugees and to the aid of the underground fight in Germany against Nazis. In effect this was accomplished a few times. Large contributions of-I don't have the records in front of me-but they must have been in the several thousands of dollars, were finally sent and were sent through-divided three ways and sent through three agencies, if my memory is correct, and these were a Jewish organization, a Catholic welfare organization, and a Protestant organization. However, very quickly the Anti-Nazi League became financially engaged in a fight to perpetuate, you know, in work to perpetuate itself. It became an educational organization rather than an aid organization primarily, and published a newspaper and was on the radio, and had mass meetings and was generally an educational instrument in the fight against Nazis.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it developed into an organization which had propaganda purposes? 1720 
Mrs. WILSON. Yes. And I agreed and do agree with them. I might add that I found my period with it, several years, from 1936 probably through 1938, perhaps two, perhaps 21/2 years, and during my experience with it it was a very healthy and effective explosive, but effective organization which would have existed, I think, with or without Communists in membership. I believe it was the sort of expression of the times, and I-for instance, although my attendance at branch meetings was spotty because of my extensive activities with broader meetings, I don't recall, in the years that I was with it, a real divergence, or any conflict in it, an area of real conflict between the branch and the board of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, which was by all means, I should have said, non-Communist in its majority. This may just have so happened, but I thought it was a pretty good organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the circumstances under which the league became inactive, or dissolved?
Mrs. WIsoN. Well, no. I know that by hearsay, and I know them rather recently by hearsay, because at this point I had left the league and I was very active in another organization which reflected a certain period that I could speak of in first-hand terms.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before I ask you about that I would like to ask you if there was a person by the name of Otto Brada.
Mrs. WILSON. Otto Brada. I heard of him, I never met him. I was told that the league may have been touched off by a large banquet given to him in Hollywood some months before the opening of offices, or before I was connected with it. He was supposed to be a German underground fighter and I only know him second-or third-hand, you know. I never met him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you acquire knowledge with regard to-well, if you did not know him yourself I doubt if you are in a position to state whether within your knowledge he was a member of the Communist Party.
Mrs. WILSON. I could make a guess.
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't want you to guess.
Mrs. WILSON. 0. K.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that you withdrew from your activity in the Anti-Nazi League and became active in another organization. Will you tell the committee about that?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes. I was invited, to the best of my knowledge this was very unrelated to a party directive or move, but Philip Dunne, who is a non-Communist and anti-Communist was vice chairman of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee and conducted what he called a raid on the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League and asked me to become secretary of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee when their own secretary left for the East. I was probably, without .knowing it, very tired of meetings and organizations but I thought that what I needed, inasmuch as I had to earn a living, was a change of pace. I eagerly accepted the offer and became for a few months full-time secretary of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee and then for many months a part-time secretary, half days.
Mr. TAVENNER. You entered into your secretarial work with that committee very soon after its organization, I assume from what you stated.  1721 
Mrs. WILSON. No. I believe that-I would say it was early in 1939 that I went with the Motion Picture Democratic Committee, but it must have been in existence all throughout 1938, because it was, as I recall, very effective, for instance, and very energetic in sponsoring the recall which put Bowron in office. It also was effective in election activity that year.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the purposes of the formation-I should change that question. What were the purposes of the Hollywood Democratic organization as you understood them ?
Mrs. WILSON. The Motion Picture Democratic Committee wasmust have been formed-I believe its primary purpose was election work, was to use the sort of talents and special abilities of motion picture people in effecting the election of candidates that they agreed represented their best interests.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did that organization become interested in propaganda matters which had no relationship to the purpose which you mentioned ?
Mrs. WILSON. It did. In several steps-they took several steps to accomplish this.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe that is rather a long story and as the chairman has indicated he would like a recess at 11: 30, I believe it would be better not to start discussion of that matter at this time.
Mr. WooD. Recess now?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. WooD. The committee will stand in recess for 15 minutes. (At this point a 15-minute recess was taken.) (Following the recess, all members of the committee being present, with the exception of Representative Donald L. Jackson, the hearing was resumed.)
Mr. WooD. Let's have order, please. Are you ready to proceed further, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Wilson, at the time of our recess we were talking about the Motion Picture Democratic Committee. You have stated the general purposes of the committee, namely, the objective of electing various people to office. I understood you to say that as the work of the committee progressed it became interested in projects that were not akin at all to the original objectives of the committee. I believe the best way to develop that, probably, would be for you to tell your experience, generally, in connection with that organization.
Mrs. WILSON. Well, it was not an election year when I went to work there-'
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. Would you raise your voice a little higher, please. Can you ?
Mrs. WILSON. I will try. It was not an election year when I went to work there. It was 1939, and I, in a period of a few months, familiarized myself with the board, with its meetings, and in the spring of 1939 Russia invaded Finland, and this was an immediate source of conflict and contention within the Motion Picture Democratic Committee. Our chairman, Melvyn Douglas, and vice chairman, Philip Dunne, sponsored a resolution jointly to present to the membership and the board condemning the invasion of Finland. The 1722 board refused to endorse the resolution on the grounds that the Motion Picture Democratic Committee, up to that point, had not concerned itself with international issues and this was-that such a resolution was inconsistent with this stand, and the members who felt this way were eloquent, and very eloquent at membership meetings and the resolution failed to carry.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that not a striking example of the statement we have heard so often before this committee, that in the establishment of Communist-front organizations the Communist Party has opposed bitterly an organization taking a position on any issue which is, in any way, in conflict with the aims of the Communist Party or the Soviet Union?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, the Communists within the organizations do, but I am sure that in the beginning, the Motion Picture Democratic Committee was a fairly broad organizationMr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mrs. WILsoN. Or it wouldn't have had Douglas and Dunne as its officers.
Mr. TAVENNER. But the issue that had arisen here was whether or not there should be a condemnation of the Soviet Union for its attack on Finland ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the Communists were very bitterMrs. WILSON. The Communists were.
Mr. TAVENNER. On that issue, and opposed the organization taking a stand on the issue ?
Mrs. WILSON. Right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And it opposed, on the ground that it was not within the purposes of the committee to create issues of that kind. Now, what was the situation where the issue was one where the Communist Party, itself, was interested? Was there a situation that -developed in which the facts were just turned around the other way, where the Communist Party was interested in behalf of the NationMrs. WILSON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Which had nothing to do with the purposes for which the organization was formed ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Such an issue occurred and was a source of very great personal disturbance and puzzlement to me at the time. Very easy to hindsight it, but I wasn't so-I just knew that I was uneasy and that(Representative Donald L. Jackson entered the hearing room.)
Mrs. WILSON (continuing). I was uneasy on practical terms, because its effect on the organization was disastrous. Shortly after the StalinHitler pact was signed, a national organization called the American Peace Mobilization came into being, and the American Peace Mobilization invited organizational affiliation from all over the country, and I can't recall whether at this point Douglas and Dunne had resignedthey were at least inactive-and the board decided to urge this affiliation on invitation from the American Peace Mobilization, and it was accomplished.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, those two illustrations which you have given are most striking because they demonstrate just what the Communist Party has attempted to do in the establishment of the front organiza-  INDUSTRY 1723 tions, to oppose the organization making an issue out of something which is unfavorable to the Communist Party, and yet fighting desperately for the creation of issues in which the Communist Party was involved.
Mr. WALTER. More than that, I think it demonstrates beyond any question the insincerity of their loud proclamations about peace today, because here they are actively opposing a resolution condemning a cowardly act of aggression.
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, will you move just a little closer to the micro- phone, please.
Mrs. WILSON. Almost impossible.
Mr. TAVENNER. And raise your voice j ust a little more, please. Will you name for the committee persons in that group, in the Motion Picture Democratic Committee, who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes. When I left the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League and I was transferred, a branch concentrating on its work to one concentrating on the work of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee, and this branch included many board members. I can't state- I am sure it wasn't a majority but I couldn't state this without reference to the letterhead. These members were Robert Tasker, John Bright-Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. You are going a little too fast. Will you spell the name of Tasker?
Mrs. WILSON. Robert Tasker, T-a-s-k-e-r; John Bright.
Mr. TAVENNER. B-r-i-g-h-t?
Mrs. WILSON. Right. -Dick Fiske, F-i-s-k-e; Maurice Murphy, Harold Buchman- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Harold Buchman hold any official position in that organization?
Mrs. WILSON. I believe he was treasurer. Allen Matthews.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there a person by the name of Victor Shapiro connected with the work of that committee ? 
Mrs. WILSON. He was a member of the board and I fail to estab- lish him as a member of the branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. You personally of your own knowledge do not know whether he was a member of the Communist Party or not?
Mrs. WILSON. My personal memory is not serviceable on this issue.
Mr. TAVENNER. He has been identified as a member of the Commu- nist Party- 
Mrs. WILSON. I understand that.
Mr. TAVENNER. By Mr. Martin Berkeley.
Mrs. WILSON. And it may have been.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is there any other experience you had in connec- tion with that group which you can give the committee the benefit of, which may be of interest to it?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, I think that I found a matter-because I was interested in the organization and believed in it, I found very disturbing, and although I was slow to understand its significance, the organization deteriorated and ceased to exist, oh, within a year after its affiliation-I mean within months after its affiliation with the APM, American Peace Mobilization. Members ceased to pay dues, to support it actively. It become very narrow and sectarian, fell into debt and closed its offices. 1724 COMMrUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. T.AVENNER. What do you state is the basic reason for that?
Mrs. WILSON. I feel that the affiliation with the American Peace Mobilization obviously didn't meet with the agreement of the majority of its members.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, the non-Communist members of the organization would not go along with the Communist Party line?
Mrs. WILSON. This could be a conclusion drawn from the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. With the result that the organization withered and died? MIrs. WILSON. It did die. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of any other organizations which you can now recall which functioned as Communist fronts?
Mrs. WILSON. No. I attended, however, when the American Peace Mobilization had a conference in Chicago. It had been achieved, you know, from my bird's-eye view at such severe cost to my organization that I was very curious and I went as a delegate of the defunct organization, is what it amounted to, and it was overwhelming. It was attended by thousands of people and I could not assess it. I could only-in the realm of my immediate personal experience knew that it had been partially-that my own organization in affiliating had ceased to be, and this seemed to me to be something wrong with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you go back now to your first entry into the Young Communist League and tell us just how your membership developed, first from one group to another.
Mrs. WILsoN. A few months, as I said, after joining the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League as secretary, I was approached by someone, possibly Dick Collins, who suggested that I join a Marxist study group because the people attending the group, he felt, had the same strong feeling against discrimination that I did. I went somewhat socially, curiously. It was conducted by a furniture worker whose first name was Arthur, last name long since vanished.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. Will you state that over again, please?
Mrs. WILSON. It was conducted by a furniture worker, I remember, a young man whose first name was Arthur. And attending it were Budd Schulberg, Bob Lees-who were most of us, you see, secondgeneration picture people, young people. Fred Rinaldo, Ambur Dana, Dick Collins, Leon Becker.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. I believe you are going a little too rapidly. Will you give those names over again and spell the last names, if the name is unusual at all.
Mrs. WILSON. They are not unusual to you.
Mr. TAVENNER. I couldn't hear them. But nevertheless we must have them correct from the standpoint of the record. You may be giving us credit for more knowledge than we have.
Mrs. WILsoN. Budd Schulberg, S-c-h-u-l-b-e-r-g.
Mr. TAVENNER. We are well acquainted with Mr. Schulberg. He has testified before this committee and made a full disclosure of his Communist Party experiences, which were very distressing to him.
Mrs. WILSON. Bob Lees, L-e-e-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. He hasn't appeared before the committee, and that is all.
Mrs. WILsoN. Fred Rinaldo, R-i-n-a-l-d-o; Ambur Dana, A-m-b-u-r D-a-n-a.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is her married name?  1725 
Mrs. WILSON. I understood she was at one point married to Waldo Salt. That's all I know. I don't know where she is now. Dick Collins, C-o-l-l-i-n-s; Leon Becker, B-e-c-k-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occupation of Mr. Leon Becker?
Mrs. WILsoN. I don't remember; I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he resided ?
Mrs. WILSoN. No, I don't. I barely remember him-I have a bare visual memory of him, as a matter of fact. Maurice Rapf, R-a-p-f; Louise Seidel, S-e-i-d-e-l; and myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now will you tell the committee how you progressed to membership in the Communist Party itself.
Mrs. WILsoN. At the close of the study group Budd Schulberg, very casually-so casually that I am sure he doesn't even remember it- asked me to join the Young Communist League, and equally casually, although out of a genuine curiosity and a conviction that the young people that met in this study group shared many of my convictions. I -accepted. I was a member of this Young Communist League group for most of the year 1937, I should judge.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask you to refer again to those persons who attended this Marxist study group with you. Were there any of those persons named by you who were not known by you to be members of the Communist Party or to have joined at a later time or have been members at some time?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, they weren't-I would have assumed that they were all in a sort of novice status like myself, with the possible exception of Budd Schulberg.
Mr. TAVENNER. So I think for that very reason we should examine it at this time to determine whether or not there was any name in that list which was not affiliated with the Communist Party, to your knowl.edge, at a later time, so that the record may be perfectly clear about that.
Mrs. WILsoN. Well, I can state immediately that to my knowledge Ambur Dana was never, in my experience, present at any party meetings that I attended, nor Louise-oh, no, that is not true. I'm sorry. Leon Becker was never part of a party group that I was part of.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any others.
Mrs. WILSON. No; I think that's it.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you continue in your activity in the party ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Well, I was-as I say-Mr. TAVENNER. You were just in the Young Communist League?
Mrs. WLsN. Yes. Excuse me. I was a member of this group for about a year, and then I was apparently transferred to a group whose concentration was the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League within the Communist Party, itself. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who composed that group?
Mrs. WILSoN. The YCL group?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO; the groupMrs. WILSON. I have given that to you.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was the first group that you gave us ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, I see. Will you give us the names of those who were members of the Young Communist League ? 1726  
Mrs. WISON. The names that I recall, the faces I recall as being present there rather than at Browder meetings which. I was then attending of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, were Paul and Sylvia Jarrico, J-a-r-r-i-c-o; Virginia Schulberg. I do not recall Budd in that group.
Mr. TAVENNER. She was the wife of Budd Schulberg?
Mrs. WILSON. Budd Schulberg. Dick Collins, Maurice Rapf, Bob Lees, Ring Lardner, Louise Seidel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you tell the committee what further experiences you had within the Communist Party and bring it on up until the time that youMrs. WILON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER Severed your connection with the Communist Party.
Mrs. WILSON. Yes. Well, after the APM convention, I returned to Hollywood very tired and eager to remove myself from organizational work, which I did, using some very real, personal, financial, and otherwise reasons. I held bread-and-butter typing jobs outside of organizational work. There was a branch which I attended more and more rarely, which, in effect, watched my winging away from the party during the latter part of 1940 and 1941, I should say, and the war came, and in 1942 I married a man who never has been in nor could be a member of the Communist Party. He was drafted and I spent the war years as a camp follower in very fine and very varied experiences, from my point of view, afflicted with Hollywood claustrophobia, away from Hollywood and far away from the party. I had a child and learned to take care of it, which is very occupying, and I never, however, formally severed relationship with the party, which is the key, perhaps-I mean, this is an emotional act and a rather necessary one, in a way, because it is an intellectual decision, too, and I never accomplished it, although I was absolutely inactive, and I think that led to what happened in 1946 on my return to Hollywood, because I came back after-it must have been 4 years away, and I renewed acquaintances, and, necessarily, because of the nature of my years in Hollywood, the kind of work I had been in, so on, many of thesefriendships were friends within the party, and they were most urgent in suggesting that I reestablish an active connection with the party, and I-it took many months to even allow my curiosity to be active to this extent. I was quite resistant, but not thinking about it very much. I made many protests that I had had a very unhappy experience with the Motion Picture Democratic Committee and the APM and that I had many unresolved questions, and the suggestion was made that the removal of Browder in leadership had cured all ills,. or had, at least, wiped out the source of many mistakes. This, in effect, was a contradiction in terms, but you must remember the year. The war was just over, the horizons looked clear. Curiosity was a very personal thing and didn't seem to jeopardize my family or- you know, my country. On a personal basis, in terms of its having helped me to crystallize many dormant doubts and reservations, I can't regret that year, 1947, in the course of which I attended a half a dozen to a dozen party meetings, and this was the last group with which I was associated in the party, and saw my-the group which accepted my formal disaffiliation, I should say, in the early part of 1948, if it wasn't.in the latter part of 1947.  1727 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names of those who were in this group that you reaffiliated with ?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes. Jack Lawson, a very omnipresent gentleman in my party history; Lester Cole, Morton and Betty Grant, Melvin Levy, L-e-v-y; Arnold and Marge Manoff, M-a-n-o-f-f; Peggy Gruen, G-r-u-e-n; Tom Chapman, C-h-a-p-m-a-n; Mortie Offner, 0-f-f-n-e-r; George Beck, B-e-c-k; John Sanford, S-a-n-f-o-r-d, and Sue Lawson, Jack Lawson's wife. It was a very large group, and a very, very small part of them were in attendance at meetings, and these were the ones I happened to see.
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to a person by the name of Tom Chapman. Do you know what his occupation was, or can you identify him further?
Mrs. WILSON. Employed by a studioMr. TAVENNER. SorryMrs. WILSON. As a reader, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, during the course of your party experience, did you become acquainted with any functionaries of the party whose names you have not mentioned ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Yes. You know, they often visited branches in which I was involved. Some of them were teachers conducting spaced lectures. The teachers that I recall were Dr. Leo Bigelman and Harry Carlisle.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Leo Bigelman is the same gentleman who ap- peared before this committee a few days ago ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Yes. The functionaries were John Stapp, S-t-a-p-p, Elizabeth Leech, L-e-e-c-h, who is connected-who is the functionary of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee branch. All I remember, offhand.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know Elizabeth Leech's married name?
Mrs. WILSON. I am not sure. I have heard it. I heard it, you know, by virtue of the committee hearings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, we don't want you to testify regarding matters you heard in here. Were you acquainted with Charles Glenn ?
Mrs. WILSON. I have met him, but I don't recall linking him at party meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you state to the committee, please, the circumstances under which you left the party ? 
Mrs. WILSON. Well, first of all, I take some of the dignity out of my decisive act by having to admit that if I hadn't had a reason, it would have happened anyway, because my husband insisted, but there was a reason, and it was the fact that 1947 was a year of-well, you know, at the beginning of it things seemed clear, and by the end of it they no longer seemed such smooth sailing. This was reflected possibly within the party in terms of party literature, by an emphasis on the necessity for supporting a third party, should it be formed. I was interested in the development of this-I was really quite fascinated by it, because quite apart from my own feeling about the efficacy or the need for a third party, there was a fallacy in the party, the Communist Party approach to this whole issue, because, first of all. party literature stated that a third party would be an impracticality unless it were supported by a number of large unions. It gave the number-I don't recall-and named them-I don't recall. Then the year rolled around, and I suppose it was necessary to file, and these 1728 INDUSTRY unions still did not support a third party, but somewhere a third party came into being and the Communist Party threw its support behind the third party. At least, as reflected in the branch I was a member of, and this seemed to me, as I say, in their own terms very fallacious thinking again, my own terms, and again, in the course of that year, or all through it, I had been differentiating in this, the way they and me, which, I suppose, was the sort of show-me basis on which I had returned to the party, but on my own terms. Well, the third party,. the Independent People's Party, had as a slogan "a' peace party." It was called the Party for Peace, and this last year in the Communist Party branch had crystallized, as I say, many, many doubts and feelings for me. I stopped attending meetings before I formally severed affiliation, although there was only a lapse of a month or so, I should say, because I decided that I want peace very much as all other Americans want it, but I would have to think very hard and realize par- ticularly and independently about the terms and associations on which I want peace, and no one else can do the thinking for me. I believe that this isn't necessary, you know, perhaps for some people within the Communist Party, but it certainly was necessary with me. It is a cliche, but it happened to me. I stopped believing, for instance, that the ends ever justified the means. I stopped believing in the infinite good will or will for peace of the Soviet Union, or that the sacrifice of the personal liberty is ever justified anywhere, and I think that these are the bases on which I accomplished the formal severing of relationship with the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. The severance of your connection with the Communist Party was final and complete ?
Mrs. WILSON. It was. It took the form of a visit after some months had passed without my attendance, a visit to me by Arnold Manoff, who is a writer, who said that if I had stopped attending meetings because I was finding it difficult to write as a Communist Party mem- ber, the party was taking steps to alleviate this difficulty, which was a matter of time and convenience, and I said, "No," that,' my differences are much more fundamental," and I explained them as I have ex- plained them to you, and he said that he would relay this information to the branch and that I could consider myself no longer a member of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever live in the State of Michigan?
Mrs. WILsoN. Never at any point.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you reside there temporarily in 1946 ?
Mrs. WILsoN. Never. .Mr. TAVENNER. I am referring particularly to Flint, Mich. The reason I am asking you that is that the committee has information that a person by the name of Elizabeth Anderson lived in Flint Mich., and signed a Communist Party nominating petition in 1946.
Mrs. WILSON. Categorically, it was not I, but I have been haunted by my name, you know. There were three Elizabeth Andersons in high school when I was there. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. I will yield to the members of the committee for any questions that they may desire to ask at this point. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. Mrs. Wilson, you perhaps don't realize how great a contribution you have made to our work. Your testimony, for example, with respect to the division of the money collected by the Anti-  1729 Nazi League has thrown some light on something that we have been concerned about, particularly those of us who also participated in that, what we thought was a very fine, lofty, undertaking.
Mrs. WILSON. Thank you.
Mr. WALTER. I congratulate you. I think the people in this country owe you a deep debt of gratitude. That's all.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I, too, wish to join with my distinguished colleague and adopt his complimentary words as mine. I noted you twice referred to Douglas Fairbanks as vice chairman and another gentleman as chairman.
Mrs. WILSON. No. Melvyn Douglas
Mr. DOYLE. Oh, Melvyn Douglas. 
Mrs. WILSON. Melvyn Douglas was chairman and Philip Dunne, D-u-n-n-eMr. DOYLE. Oh, yes.
Mrs. WILSON. I do hope that what happened to some people that
Mr. Berkeley named as non-Communists doesn't happen to them, because they are distinctly in action and belief not Communists.
Mr. DOYLE. I wanted to make sure that I participated in emphasizing that which you emphasized.
Mrs. WILSON. Thank you. 
Mr. DoYLE. That is why I am bringing it out. I had always under- stood that Philip Dunne and Melvyn Douglas were not Communists.
Mrs. WILSON. That is entirely true.
Mr. DOYLE. Is that from your own personal knowledge?
Mrs. WILSON. Oh, absolutely.
Mr. DOYLE. You mentioned a number of young people, and included yourself at that time, and said that you were second-generation motion-picture people. 
Mrs. WILSON. Many of us were, perhaps most of us.
Mr. DOYLE. Does that mean we are to understand that the motion- picture artists affiliated with the motion-picture industry at that time, I mean as parents, were encouraging their own children to participate in the Young Communist League?
Mrs. WILSON. Not at all. I am sure that the reverse is true. I am sure that it is a pattern that you will find in any part of the United States, it is a very youthful pattern. I was 20 or less. And we unquestionably were drawn to this because it represented an infringement on authority, you know, with its faintly conspiratorial aura. I am convinced that none of the parents involved were responsible, and, in fact, distressed to know about it.
Mr. DOYLE. My distinguished colleague to my left reminds me that I am trying to question you within 3 minutes. Did you ever read any Communist literature or hear any Communist lecturer expound in support of the United States Constitution as written, emphasize that the Communist must be loyal to the Constitution of the United States and its system of Government ? 
Mrs. WILsow. Well, certainly I heard the Bill of Rights specifically cited.
Mr. DOYLE. I refer now to the balance of the Constitution and the rest of the amendments. 1730  
Mrs. WnsoN. This is a matter-I can't-I do not recall one thing or the other, I really don't, you know. I mean it may be conspicuous by-Mr. DOYLE. Was there ever any constitution of the Communist Party submitted to you for signature?
Mrs. WILsoN. Never that I remember. It was submitted to me for reading, for my own information, and I never read it.
Mr. bOYLE. In fact, you have never yet read it? 
Mrs. Wiso. (indicating by shaking head from side to side). SMr. DOYLE. We have a copy of itMrs. WILSON. I don't want to read it.
Mr. DOYLE. And for your information I will say that there is no declaration of loyalty to the United States Constitution or the Declara- tion of Independence in it. It is not found. But there is a pledge and an oath, substantially, of allegiance to the Soviet Union, as is so vigorously always brought out by my distinguished colleague from Michigan. I hope he brings it out again. Thank you very much.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson ?
Mr. JACKSON. I should like to join with my colleagues in thanking you for your testimony, which I think has added something to the sum of the knowledge of the committee. Tell me, in a closed session, in a branch meeting where only Com- munists were present, was it customary to open that meeting as the Elks. Rotary, Kiwanis, and a lot of other organizations which happen to believe in the United States of America do-was it customary to open the meeting with a pledge of allegiance of any sort?
Mrs. WILSON. No; it was not.
Mr. JACKSON. Or to the Constitution ?
Mrs. WILSON. No.
Mr. JACKSON. Or to the flag?
Mrs. WILSON. No.
Mr. JACKSON. Was the American flag displayed at those meetings?
Mrs. WILSON. No.
Mr. JACKSON. It was not displayed? 
Mrs. WILSON. Not as a matter of establishedMr. JACKSON. Were the pictures of the great American patriots displayed-for instance, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln- at party functions?
Mrs. WILSON. You know, they were in hired halls for the most part, and they could have been present or they could not have been present. But not byMr. JACKSON. Were you ever present when any pictures of any great Soviet leaders were displayed prominently?
Mrs. WILSON.
Mr. JACKSON.
Mrs. WILsoN.
Mr. JACKSON. Actually, I was not. You never saw them ? No; I never did. Well, I made a trip as an observer for the Elks lodge- which, incidentally, in the text of these hearings should not be considered subversive, for it is a great and loyal American organiza- tion-sent me as an observer one time. You could hardly see the stage for the pictures of Mr. Lenin. The American flag was conspicuously absent, as was any pledge of allegiance to any institution, any ideal, or tradition of the United States of America.  1731 I hope that your break is final and definite, and I congratulate you on your courage in coming forward to tell what you know about a conspiratorial device.
Mrs. WIsoN. Thank you. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Mrs. Wilson, when you were a member of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee, I assume that the Communist work within that organization operated as a fraction; is that true?
Mrs. WILsoN. Well, I suppose. I have always been vague about the literal meaning of the word "fraction," but in your usage of it, I think possibly it is correct.
Mr. POTrEB. Did you ever have meetings prior to the regular set meetings of the committee, did the Communist members ever have meetings of their own to plan the strategy of what action should be taken to influence the policy of the entire committee?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, whether they were special meetings or not, certainly in the moments-in the times of crisis that I refer to over the Russian invasion of Finland and the APM, there was extensive discussion within the party of the necessity for and defeating one and supporting the other.
Mr. POTTER. Did the members of the Communist Party, who were in the committee, did they work in unison, did they vote in unison ?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes; I would say they did, with an exception.
Mr. POTTER. Would you care to discuss the exception ?
Mrs. WILSON. Well, I believe that Maurice Murphy, whom I recall as a very seldom attendant at branch meetings of the Motion Picture Democratic Committee, had the survival of the body as an election organization very much at heart and was very vocal in feeling that the affiliation with the APM would be inimicable to its survival.
Mr. POTTER. Mrs. Wilson, I, too, wish to join with my colleagues and hope that in your little capacity as a wife, mother, and writer you will have a very happy future and a successful future.
Mrs. WILSON. Thank you. very much.
Mr. WooD. Any further questions by counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO further questions.
Mr. WooD. As I previously pointed out in these hearings, it has been said on high authority that to admit a mistake and honestly seek to rectify it requires the highest degree of moral courage. I join with my colleagues on this subcommittee in extending to you the very deep appreciation of the committee for the valuable contribution that you have made to our work and to the American people. I, too, feel that the people in this area and the entire United States are sincerely indebted to you for your courage and your willingness to come here and give us the benefit of the information which you have given us today. I wish to extend the sincere thanks of the committee. You are excused from further attendance on the committee. The committee will stand in recess until 2 o'clock. (Whereupon, at 12: 30 p. m., a recess was taken in the above hearings until 2 p. m. of the same day.) 81595-51-pt. 5- 7 1732 AFTERNOON SESSION (Whereupon, at 2:05 p. m. of the same day the proceedings were resumed, the same parties being present with the exception of Representative Charles E. Potter.)
Mr. WOOD. Let the committee be in order. Before proceeding further with the hearings of witnesses I desire at this point to read into the record a letter of correction which I have received special delivery from Mr. Irwin L. DeShelter, regional director of the Congress of Industrial Organizations for this region. This is' written on the stationery of that organization and directed to the chairman of this committee, and it is in the following language: I note from press reports of your subcommittee's present hearings on Communist activities in Hollywood, that witnesses have mentioned the name of Jeff Kibre as one of those who belonged to a Communist Party unit. Kibre also was identified as "presently head of a CIO fishermen's union in San Pedro." It is this second point which here concerns us. Please be informed that Kibre is not a member of a "CIO fishermen's union" or any CIO union. Kibre, we understand, is an official in a fishermen's' union which is now part of the independent International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union, of which Harry Bridges is president. The fishermen's union with which Kibre is identified was thrown out of the CIO some 2 years ago after it was found guilty of charges that it was dominated by Communists. Bridges' ILWU was also ejected about the same time for the same reason. The two organizations have since merged. If Kibre has been identified in your official records as belonging to a "CIO fishermen's union," we respectfully request that a correction be entered to make it clear that CIO has nothing to do with the likes of Kibre. Sincerely yours, IRWIN L. DESHELTER, I00 Regional Director. Who do you call, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Murray Abowitz, please.
Mr. KENNY. Mr. Tavenner, I explained to you that the doctor is on call at his office. This is his day at the hospital. If you want him this afternoon I can phone him and have him down here
Mr. TAVENNER. How long will it take for him to be here ?
Mr. KENNY. I think a half hour.
Mr. TAVENNER. I suggest you call him right away, sir.
Mr. KENNY. Yes, I will.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jeff Corey.
Mr. WIRIN. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Corey is an actor and he feels television will hurt him. He does not want to be televised.
Mr. WOOD. Is Mr. Corey present? Let him come forward and urge his own objection.
Mr. COREY. I urge, Mr. Chairman, that television not be used on my visit.
Mr. WOOD. Very well, if you object to it the same directive will be given as has been previously given.
Mr. COREY. I, too, would find the still photographers during the process of testimony disconcerting, so I am sure we can dispense with that during the course of the testimony.
Mr. WOOD. In that case I will ask the photographers to make whatever pictures they desire now.
Mr. COREY. Thank you very much.
Mr. WOOD. And then they will desist until the testimony is finished.  1733 
Mr. WIIN. May I assure the photographers Mr. Corey isn't that important, but that's for them to decide.
Mr. WooD. That is a matter I can't pass on.
Mr. COREY. Mr. ChairmanMr. WooD. Do you object to being photographed at all?
Mr. COREY. Oh, no. It is unavoidable. I was just going to ex-plain my attitude with regard to television, if I may.
Mr. WooD. If you will just wait a minute, we would like to getyou under oath. Now, Mr. Corey, if you will stand and be sworn.
Mr. ComEY. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. Hold up your right hand, please, sir. You do solemnly swear that the evidence you give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. CoREY. I do, sir. TESTIMONY OF JEFF COREY, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, A. L. WIRIN 