Miss SONDERGAARD. I do.
Mr. KENNY. For the record, the same objection to the witness being called at all which was made at the outset of the witness Da Silva is repeated in behalf of Miss Sondergaard at this time.
Mr. WooD. It will be included in the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please state your full name?
Miss SONDERGAARD. My name is known professionally as Gale Son- dergaard. I was born Edith Holm Sondergaard in Litchfield, Minn.
Mr. Chairman, I wonder if I might be allowed to read a statement. I find it difficult to express myself, and I have worked this up.
Mr. WOOD. Not until you have been examined. If you have a state- ment you want to file with the committee for the record after you have answered the questions that are asked you, you can leave it with the reporter.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are an actress by profession, I believe.
Miss SONDERGAARD. I am an actress by profession. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your married name?
Miss SONDERGAARD. My married name is Mrs. Herbert Biberman.
Mr. WOOD. You are represented by the same counsel that represented the previous witness. We will dispense with the necessity of further indentifying yourselves.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you are here in response to a subpena as served on you on March 21, 1951, are you not?
Miss SONDERGAARD. That's true. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please relate to the committee briefly your educational background?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Yes. I went to high school in Minneapolis, Minn. I graduated from the University of Minnesota. I attended the Minneapolis School of Dramatic Art. 122 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a brief resume of your employment background ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Yes. I began on a touring Shakespearean company. As a matter of fact, I began acting when I was still in college, during the summers. Then I would go back to school. Then I went on a Shakespearean tour. I worked with Jessie Bonstelle in Detroit for 2 years as her second lady and then her leading lady. I worked with the Theater Guild for a number of years as one of their acting company. I worked in many Broadway plays. I went to Hollywood and I have been there for the past 6 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What guilds or associations have you been identified with in Hollywood?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Guilds or associations? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Miss SONDERGAARD. Would you be a little more specific on that question, because I think the two names mean two different things.
Mr. TAVENNER. What organizations have you belonged to in Hollywood?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Mr. Chairman, before I came here I followed a great deal of the testimony of this committee, and I have read a long, long list of organizations which you on the committee and which other committees of our Government have branded as subversive organizations. I have a feeling if you will ask me what organizations I belonged to that you probably would like me to tie myself into one of these, and there I must refuse to answer this question on the grounds of the fifth amendment, that it might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Screen Actors' Guild ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I am a member of the Screen Actors' Guild. All actors must belong to the'Screen Actors' Guild. It is a tradeunion.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there to your knowledge members of the Communist Party in that guild?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Mr. Chairman, I don't know anything about personnel of our guild. I know that we are all trade-union people. We belong together because we are professional workers in the motionpicture industry.
Mr. WOOD. You were asked if to your knowledge there were any members of the Communist Party that were members of this guild since you belong to it.
Miss SONDERGAARD. Mr. Chairman, obviously that question is designed to involve me, to incriminate me. I shall have to refuse to ans.wer that question on the basis previously stated.
Mr. WOOD. Do you so refuse?
Miss SONDERGAARD. What was that? Do I refuse? For the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you observed during the course of your membership in that guild an organization on behalf or on the part of the Communists to dominate or to advance the Communist Party within that organization?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Mr. Prosecutor, I know that there are a great many peopleMr. WOOD. Just answer the question.  123 
Miss SONDERGAARD. I must refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. WooD. Do you refuse to answer ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I said I did refuse.
Mr. WooD. You'must say you refuse to answer.
Miss SONDERGAARD. I am sorry. I didn't hear you.
Mr. WOOD. When you say you must refuse to answer, it isn't an answer. The question is: Do you answer ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I am sorry. I do mean that.
Mr. WOOD. For the reasons that you have given ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. For the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you familiar with an organization called the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Mr. Chairman, again I must refer to your long list of organizations and refuse to answer that question on the basis previously stated. May I say something while we are waiting here about this business of suddenly branding every progressive and every progressive organization in our country, organizations which have done wonderful and fine work in the past, branding them as subversive ? This I find very shocking and very saddening.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Communist Party at this time or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I refuse to answer that question for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Miss Sondergaard, the committee is in possession of information which discloses that on December 1, 1944, you were registered as a Communist, and your card bore the number 47328 for the year 1945; that is, the card bore that number for the year 1945. Do you wish to deny or affirm that information or explain it?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you making a distinction in your own mind about this business of suddenly branding every progressive and every because those terms are often used interchangeably ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I refused to answer that question on the terms previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was your Communist Party number in 1944 the number 46943?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I refuse to answer that question for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are familiar, I assume, with an organization called the Motion Picture Artists' Committee ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Mr. Chairman, I believe that is on the long, long list of what are now known as subversive organizations, and I refuse to answer it for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been a sponsor at any time of the League of Women Shoppers ?
Miss SONDERGAARD. I refuse to answer that question for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. KEARNEY. I would like to ask the witness this question, and I think that it calls for a "Yes" or "No" answer. 124  Do you believe a committee of Congress should investigate subversive activities or the security of our country?
Miss SONDERGAARD. Mr. Congressman, I do believe that a committee of Congress could and should do investigating work, but I do feel that this committee at this time is doing incriminating work much more than investigating work, and that is the reason I wish to object.
Mr. KEARNEY. YOU wouldn't like to go over some of our files, would you?
Mr. TAVENNER. Miss Sondergaard, the records of the committee disclose that you served as a sponsor of the Cultural and Scientific Congress for World Peace which was held in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City, March 25 to 27, 1949, under the auspices of the National Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions. Is that correct?
Miss SONDERGAARD. It is a very odd thing that whenever the word "peace" comes up people begin to tremble. I must refuse to answer that question for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily Worker of June 23, 1950, states that you were scheduled to speak at the rally on June 28, 1950, in Madison Square Garden under the auspices of the Civil Rights Congress. On June 29, 1950, the newspaper stated that rally was staged in behalf of the 11 national Communist Party leaders who had been convicted of conspiracy to advocate the overthrow of the Government by force and violence, as well as in behalf of Eugene Dennis, Communist Party national secretary, who was jailed for contempt of Congress. Other speakers on the program, according to the newspaper account, were identified as Gus Hall, who was one of the 11 convicted Communist Party leaders; the avowed Communist, Ben Gold; Paul Robeson, Vito Marcantonio, Ring Lardner, Jr., and Earl Coward. I would like to ask you to tell us all you know about the selection of the speakers on that occasion and your participation in the program, if you will. 
Miss SONDERGAARD. IS that a question ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. That is a request for you to give us that in- formation.
Miss SONDERGAARD. There are many things I would like to say in regard to a thing like this, but because you have already branded this kind of a meeting, this kind of an organization, I refuse to answer for the reasons previously stated. I wonder if I could interpolate here the fact that I am the wife of Herbert Biberman, as you asked me before. Herbert Biberman was one of the Hollywood 10 who has very recently come out of prison for defending the first amendment before this committee. In my statement I have said that in 1937may I go on ?
Mr. WOOD. No.
Miss SONDERGAARD. No ? I just wanted that in the record.
Mr. WOOD. Any further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Frazier?
Mr. FRAZIER. No questions.  INDUSTRY 125 
Mr. MARGOLIS. May we also file with the committee a more com- plete statement of the objection or the basis for the refusal to answer these questions, in order that it may be a part of this record ?
Mr. WooD. If you have the paper, you may file it with the com- mittee. (The statement referred to was filed with the records of the committee.)
Mr. WOOD. The committee will resolve itself into executive session at this point. There will be no further open hearing this afternoon. (Whereupon, at 4 p. m., the committee met in executive session.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 1 TUESDAY, APRIL 10, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC -IEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to call at 10 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney (appearance as noted in transcript), Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, Courtney E. Owens, and James Andrews, investigators; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will be in order. It must be obvious to everyone here that the committee is operating under rather cramped conditions. I hope the audience will cooperate with us in maintaining order, without the necessity of calling it to your attention too often. The quarters here are small and the space is very limited, and it will be very greatly appreciated if people in the audience will refrain from smoking, and certainly from audible conversation. I will ask the members of the press and photographers taking pictures here to try to disturb the proceedings as little as possible.
Mr. Counsel, are you ready to proceed ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, Mr. Chairman. We are ready to proceed this morning with the continuance of the Hollywood hearings.
Mr. WooD. Let the record disclose that there are present members of the committee Walter, Moulder, Doyle, Velde, Jackson, Potter, and Wood. Who is the first witness, Mr. Counsel ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to call at this time Mr. Sterling Hayden.
Mr. WooD. Is Mr.,Hayden in the hearing room ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn? You solemnly swear the testimony you give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ? 127 128 INDUSTRY 
Mr. HAYDEN. I do. 
Mr. ~VOOD. Have a seat. TESTIMONY OF STERLING HAYDEN  