Mr. KAST. My name is George Kast, K-a-s-t.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record
Mr. MANES. Hugh R. Manes, Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Kast?
Mr. KAST. August 28, 1913, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mr. KAST. I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you made Los Angeles your place of residence ?
Mr. KAST. Approximately 20 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. KAST. Musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. KAST. I attended public schools in New York and 1 year of high school. At that time I left high school in order to devote myself to music. I won a New York Philharmonic scholarship. I studied at the Institute of Musical Art on a scholarship. I studied at the David Manes School of Music as a scholarship student.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in the practice of your profession in Los Angeles?
Mr. KAST. Approximately 20 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, whether or not at any time during that period you have been a member of branch O of the northwest section of the Communist Party, sometimes referred to as the musicians branch of the Communist Party?
Mr. KAST. I decline to answer on the grounds that the mandate of this committee purported to authorize inquiry into the field of propa- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3985 ganda, entrenches upon an area in which Congress may not constitutionally legislate, and because also the mandate of this committee is so vague and indefinite as to deprive me of an adequate standard of conduct by which the demands of the question may be reasonably ascertained or established. And further, upon the grounds that the question pries into my private affairs which are protected from inquisition by the Bill of Rights of our Constitution, and because the question asked involves my personal opinions and associations, which are subject solely unrelated to any valid legislative purpose, and about which I may speak or remain silent as I choose. I am, therefore, relying upon the entire Bill of Rights insofar as that document incorporates and pertains to the foregoing reasons, and particularly upon the first amendment thereof.
Mr. SCHERER. I think the record should show that the witness read his last answer from a document, or documents that he had in his possession.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you have any personal knowledge of a plan of the Communist Party to cause musicians who had affiliated with it to circulate petitions of the Independent Progressive Party of California in 1948 ?
Mr. KAsT. I refuse to answer on the same grounds as stated previously.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of such a petition of the Independent Progressive Party bearing date, the 18th day of February 1948, at the end of which appears an affidavit over your name. Marked for identification only as "George Kast Exhibit No. 1" I ask you to examine it, please, and state whether or not you circulated that petition. (Document handed to the witness and his counsel.)
Mr. KAST. I decline to answer the question on the grounds previously stated. However, for this particular question I have further grounds for declining. This question violates the right of secret ballot as guaranteed by American tradition and law. Further, it violates the right to petition the Government free from intimidation, as guaranteed by the Bill of Rights in the United States Constitution.
Mr. SCHERER. I think the record should show that that answer of the witness was read from a prepared document.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer in evidence, the document marked as "George Kast Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MOULDER. The document as marked is admitted in evidence. (This exhibit is similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 1, p. 3957, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. SCHERER. I think we should say, in view of the answer given, that there is nothing in the Constitution that prevents a district attorney, a court, or a congressional committee from investigating petitions such as have been the subject of this inquiry which were obtained and circulated by fraud or through fraud. There is no constitutional provision or any other provision that prevents such investigation or such an inquiry. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. There is no constitutional provision except the fifth amendment which permits a person not to answer. 3986 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, on that point, as long as the witness has relied upon the first amendment, involving the right of petition, the first amendment is: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble- and here is the phrase that refers to the petitionsand to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. I don't think that that gives authority for the Communist Party subversively, fraudulently, and falsely to importune and impose upon the voters of the State of California to sign petitions to qualify a Communist front in the State of California. That is not the right of petition, as I see it. There is no right of petition involved. The Constitution doesn't give the Communist Party the right to perpetrate a deliberate fraud on the California voters. That is what this Communist Party group did, in my book.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you two photostatic copies of affidavits of registration bearing date, 22d day of April 1948, and the 21st day of November 1950, respectively, showing George Kast as of the dates mentioned in each affidavit to be affiliated with the Independent Progressive Party of California. They are marked "George Kast Exhibits No. 2 and No. 3," respectively, for identification. Will you examine them, please, and state whether or not you signed either or both of those documents ? (Documents handed to the witness and his counsel.)
Mr. KAST. What was the question, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you sign either of the affidavits?
Mr. KAST. I think that violates the right that I have for a secret ballot, and I will refuse to answer that statement, based upon my previous grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have personal knowledge of the Communist Party plan to cause its members, composed of the musicians group in the Communist Party, to change their registration to that of the Independent Progressive Party in 1948 ?
Mr. KAST. I refuse to answer that question on the previous grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer in evidence the two documents marked "George Kast Exhibits No. 2 and No. 3," respectively.
Mr. MOULDER. The documents referred to as requested by counsel are admitted in evidence. (These 2 exhibits, bearing dates of April 22, 1948, and November 21, 1950, respectively, as similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 2, p. 3960, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. They are on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. KAST. I refuse to answer that question for all of the previous reasons stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. MOULDER. Questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. In connection with the circulation of those 11,000 petitions, largely circulated by members of the Communist Party in Cali- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3987 fornia, I wish to make it clear as a resident of Los Angeles County and the State of California that I am very sure that a very, very insignificant proportion of those people who signed those petitions, under the fraudulent, subversive, and concealment methods used by the Communist Party in circulating them, had knowledge that the Communist Party in California was imposing upon them. I feel I ought to make that statement, Mr. Chairman, because I know that in those years many perfectly patriotic, fine, sound American citizens registered in the Independent Progressive Party.
Mr. SCHERER. Many, but not all.
Mr. DOYLE. I said many. I didn't say all, because I know that some very active Communists registered in the IPP in those days. And they never changed their subversive, deceitful, cheating attitude toward the Constitution of the United States except to subvert it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused. The Chair wishes to announce that it has been called to my attention that there is an organized effort for concentrated attendance of many people at the hearing here tomorrow morning. I also wish to announce, of course, the attitude of the committee: That the public is invited to attend these hearings which are open hearings. But the committee will not tolerate any interference, demonstrations, or disturbance during the proceedings which will be held by the committee tomorrow.
Mr. MOULDER. The committee will recess until tomorrow morning at 9:30 a. m. (Whereupon, at 5:25 p. m. April 20, 1956, the hearing was recessed until 9: 30 a. m., Saturday, April 21, 1956. Present: Representatives Moulder, Doyle, and Scherer.) INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA-PART 10 SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 1956 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. PUBLIC HEARING A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met at 9:35 a. m., pursuant to recess, in room 518, Federal Building, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. Morgan M. Moulder (chairman of the subcommittee) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Morgan M. Moulder, of Missouri (presiding), Clyde Doyle, of California, Donald L. Jackson, of California (appearance as noted), and Gordon H. Scherer, of Ohio. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; William A. Wheeler and Courtney E. Owens, investigators. (Representatives Moulder, Doyle, and Scherer were present at the time of convening.)
Mr. MOULDER. The committee will be in order, please. The committee has unanimously agreed on the following announcement or order in the nature of an announcement: Those in the hearing room this morning are here as guests of the committee. During the past week on several occasions it has been necessary to remove from the hearing room persons who have interrupted the work of the committee by expressing their approval or disapproval of testimony by applause or other demonstrations. This subcommittee of the Congress is here in Los Angeles on business of the Congress of the United States and it is our determination and the determination of this committee that the work of the committee will not be interfered with by such demonstrations. The Chair has warned on previous occasions that any expression of disapproval or approval by any person present would result in the ejection of that person or persons responsible for such interruption from the hearing room. In light of the fact that many of those present in the room this morning are here at the request of others or have been urged to attend at the request of others in an organized effort to lend support to certain witnesses, the warning issued on previous days is enlarged this morning and the Chair will clear the hearing room, or order the United States marshal to clear the hearing room, for the balance of the day's work if any 3989 3990 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA demonstration is made by any person which causes an interruption in the proceedings or orderly procedure by the committee. Are you ready to proceed, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will Mr. John W. Porter come forward, please, sir?
Mr. MOULDER. Please be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. PORTER. I do. TESTIMONY OF JOHN W. PORTER, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ANTHONY V. RANDLES 