Mr. HECHT. Harold Adolph Hecht.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel?
Mr. HEOHT. I am. My. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record? r. WILLIAMS. Edward Bennett Williams, of Washington, D. C.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born?
Mr. HEOHT. I was born in New York City, June 1, 1907.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state briefly to the committee what your educational training has been?
Mr. HECHT. Public school and high school in New York. I was graduated from high school in 1923. That is the extent of my formal education:
Mr. TAVENNER. How have you been employed since 1935?
Mr. HECHT. In 1935 I was employed at the Summer Hotel in New York. In 1936 I did a play for the Theater Guild, But for the Grace of God. I was assistant to the director and assistant to the stage manager. In 1937 I was employed by the Federal Theater. In 1939 I left the Federal Theater and came to Hollywood. Later in 1939, at the beginning of 1940, I became an agent for the Goldstone Agency. In 1942 I entered the Army. In 1945 I was discharged. In 1945 I went into the agency again in partnership with Louis Rantz. In 1946 I dissolved that partnership and was in the agency business alone, and in 1947 I went into the production of motion pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Hecht, during the course of the testimony taken before this committee in September 1951, your name was mentioned by Mr. Martin Berkeley as one of those whom he knew as a member, of the Communist Party. Now, that testimony was taken in closed session of the committee and not in an open session, and due to the fact that the committee learned that you were, I believe, in ItalyMr. HECHT. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. And that by taking that testimony in closed session, you would have an opportunity to cooperate with this committee, as it was your desire, before your name had been made public as a member of the Communist Party. I think the committee was in receipt of a message from you, a telegram, indicating that the testimony of Mr. Martin Berkeley with regard to you was correct.
Mr. HECHT. That is so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that so?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, that is so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then we want to take this opportunity to question before you regarding your former Communist Party membership, but of the doing that I would like to ask you, are you now a member Communist Party ?
Mr. HECHT. NO, I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you a member of the Communist Party? 31747-53-pt. 1--3 294 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. HECHT. I was a member of the Communist Party from 1936 until the end of 1939 or the beginning of 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. Therefore, you were a member of the Communist Party during a part of your career in New York City and also during a part of your career in Hollywood?
Mr. HECHT. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you tell the committee, please, the circumstances under which you became a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. HECHT. In 1935 I left Hollywood. I was without a job and also without any money. The motion pictures I had been working in were more or less stopped. They were higher-budget pictures, and I was a dance director at that time. I was out of work for some time. I went to New York. I remember going to New York, and it was on a May Day. I saw a vast army marching.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the year?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, sir, 1935. I saw this army marching. There were pamphlets, literature, and other material handed out. I read the Daily Worker. It interested me. That summer I heard more about communism, that communism found jobs galore, spoke about the growing need for social reform and social security, with one voice fighting nazism and fascism, and these things interested me, and in 1936 I joined the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was in New York City?
Mr. HECHT. That was in New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who recruited you in the party ?
Mr. HECHT. I was going to a labor school at that time. I was recruited by a man who was attending classes with me, a man named Lewis. I happen to remember his name because it was the same name as the head of the CIO. At that time the Communist Party and the CIO were working together.
Mr. TAVExNER. But it was not the same person who was the head of the CIO?
Mr. HECHT. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say at the time that you were recruited you were attending a labor school. Will you tell us more about that labor school?
Mr. HECIIT. The labor school was in the headquarters of the Communist Party, a building on 4th Avenue between 12th and 13th Streets, I believe in New York City. I took several courses there, 1 in political economy, 1 in current events, and 1 in the rise of Marxism and Leninism. I attended about 5 hours a week.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what was your purpose in attending the school if you were not a member of the Communist Party at that time ?
Mr. HECHT. Well, the theory and ideas of communism interested me and I decided to find out more about it, and that is the reason I went to the labor school.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were other persons in attendance at that school non-Communist persons ?
Mr. HECHT. I believe so. It wasn't necessary to belong to the Communist Party to go to the school.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell the committee anything about the faculty of that insititution at that time? Were there any members who COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 295 became known to you later to be members of the Communist Party?
Mr. HECHT. No, I knew none of them. My only connection with them was in their actual official capacity conducting classes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Marxism taught? 
Mr. HECHT. Yes; it was. I took a course in Marxism.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the person by the name of Lewis, who recruited you into the party, a student or a person connected with the school?
Mr. HECHT. He was a student, but I believe that he might have been a student who was more or less a perpetual student in the class, and that is why, I think, that they weren't all Communists that went to school, because I believe that his main function in attending the class was to recruit.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was to recruit?
Mr. HECHT. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether he recruited any other persons who were students at that school?
Mr. HECHT. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were recruited into the party, were you assigned to any particular group or cell of the party
Mr. HECHT. Yes; I was. I was assigned to a group in Brooklyn. This man Lewis was part of that group.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many persons composed that group ?
Mr. HECHT. About a dozen. It was a neighborhood group of a number of housewives and a number of men unemployed, and this man Lewis.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you a member of that neighborhood group ?
Mr. HECHT. About 6 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what the principal interests of that particular group were, what objectives they sought to accomplish ?
Mr. HECHT. As I said, it was a neighborhood group. They circulated petitions, canvassed for elections, sold subscriptions to the Daily Worker. We worked with what was called the Workers' Alliance which was in that neighborhood, and we did more or less what I would consider the lower level of Communist activities of that day.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you closely associated with their work in the Workers' Alliance, that is, the work of the Communist Party within the Workers' Alliance?
Mr. HECHT. No. I went to a number of meetings of the Workers' Alliance in this neighborhood, but I was not closely associated with them. I know that the Workers' Alliance was, I believe a union of, the unemployed and there was great pressure put on at that time for jobs for everybody, for greater appropriations for the WPA, and that was the way the alliance functioned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall at this time any particular activities of that Communist Party neighborhood group in promoting the Workers' Alliance?
Mr. HECHT. There were sidewalk features, door-to-door canvassing for signing petitions, constant pressure on Washington to increase appropriations. 296 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not the Communist Party at that time advocated or supported a plan by which Communist Party members should give their full time to the work of the Workers' Alliance group, and at the same time be supported by relief? Did you have any experience of that character?
Mr. HECHT. No; I am sorry, I haven't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, at the end of 5 months, do I understand you were assigned to another group of the Communist Party?
Mr. HECHT. That's correct. I was assigned to another group that met near Broadway on West 46th Street, I believe. This was a group that was composed to a great extent of secretarial workers, not people connected with the theater, although there may have been some secretaries who were connected with the different offices.
Mr. TAVENNER. How did you happen to be assigned to that particular group ?
Mr. HECHT. Well, I wasn't happy with the group that I was working with in Brooklyn. One of the things that disturbed me very much was the shifting support for candidate for office in Brooklyn. The Communists had been supporting him for some time and they suddenly decided to shift their support to the other candidate. This seemed to me to be the rashest kind of opportunism and bothered me very much. I was also disturbed by things that disturbed many other people that belonged to the Communist Party, lack of democracy. In addition to that, I was looking for work in New York and on Broadway, and this seemed to be a much better place for me to be assigned to the group. Both factors were important in my changing. I would think that the first was more important than the latter.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain with this second group ?
Mr. HECHT. About 3 months. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And that began at about what date and ended about when?
Mr. HECHT. That began in 1936 and ended, oh, I should say about the beginning of 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names, please, of any persons whom you can now recall who were members of that group of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HECHT. I can recall of the second group, I can recall a girl named Sylvia Siegel.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Will you spell that? 
Mr. HECHT. I only know the phonetic spelling, S-i-e-g-e-l.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. 
Mr. HECHT. Who was the secretary in charge of the group. I also remember another accountant. I remember an accountant, another person whose name was Arren. He had charge of the financial affairs. (Representative Kit Clardy left the hearing room at this point, 2:05 p. m.)
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the cause of the severance of your connections with that particular group after being with it 3 months?
Mr. HECHT. I started working in the Federal Theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before I ask you about that, how many persons were in that group of white-collar workers or secretaries, which was the second group to which you were assigned?
Mr. HECHT. Eight or ten. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 297 
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you joined what organization-the FederalMr. HECHT. I was employed by the Federal Theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were employed by the Federal Theater?
Mr. HECHT. In 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what capacity were you employed?
Mr. HECHT. I was in charge of a unit there, a show, a musical revue.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that a WPA project?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When you say you were "in charge of a unit," will you explain that a little more fully, please?
Mr. HECHT. This was a musical revue. It was necessary to compile songs, sketches, lyrics, something similar to what Mr. Dare spoke about. However, 1 had started organizing it from the start. I got a number of writers to work on the songs, sketches, music, dancing, costumes, et cetera, and also we had to secure a cast. These people were recruited from roles in the Federal Theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. I did not hear the last part.
Mr. HECHT. I said these people came from the Federal Theater. Is it difficult to hear me?
Mr. TAVENNER. I can hear you now. How long did you occupy that type of a position with the Federal Theater?
Mr. HECHT. I was there until 1939, when I left to go back to Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any particular show that you worked on while employed by the Federal Theater ?
Mr. HECHT. Yes; there was a revue called Sing For Your Supper.
Mr. TAVENNER. Sing for Your Supper?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did it take to produce that show ?
Mr. HECHT. About 2 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why was it necessary to take that much time to produce it?
Mr. HECHT. Well, it was a very large show. There were many people in the show who went back to private industry, particularly people who were important to the show. In addition to that, their appropriations were constantly being cut in the Federal Theater, and we would have to cut the cast and rearrange numbers and rearrange the show, and that was the reason it took so long.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the play finally produced?
Mr. HECHT. Yes; it was. It was produced in April, I believe, 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did it meet with reasonable success?
Mr. HEC-IT. I would think so. Not a great success, but I think it met with reasonable success.
Mr. TAVENNER. HOW many persons were in the cast ?
Mr. HECHT. About 200.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you define just exactly what your duties were with regard to the persons in that cast and the production of the play
Mr. HECHT. I was in charge of it. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left the hearing room at this point, 2:10 p. m.) 298 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. HEHTr. There was a dance director, one for the modern dance group and one for jazz dance group. There were sketches to be rehearsed and people to rehearse them. Countless numbers of people who were to be in the show, and I had charge of the entire business.
Mr. TAVENNER. That meant it was your responsibility to hire and fire members of the cast?
Mr. HECTr. Well, it was not my sole responsibility. I was not entirely in charge of that, but I had something to do with it certainly.
Mr. TAVENNER. You had a very heavy responsibility with regard to the personnel?
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I assume from your statement you did.
Mr. HECHT. Yes, I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party while you held that position?
Mr. HECHT. Yes; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. What group of the Communist Party did you belong to at the time that you were employed by the Federal Theater?
Mr. HECHT. I belonged to a group that was concerned with this particular show.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean to say that there was a Communist Party cell or group established within the cast which produced this play?
Mr. HECHT. Well, there was the cast, there were the workers. I said there were 200 in the cast. I should say from the time we started the show until the show went on there might have been 500 people connected with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. But probably about 200 at any one time; is that correct?
Mr. HECHT. That is correct. (Representative Kit Clardy reentered the hearing room at this point, 2:13 p. m.)
Mr. TAVENNEE. How many persons composed this group or cell of the Communist Party, within the Federal Theater?
Mr. HECHT. About 40.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many ? 
Mr. HECHT. Forty.
Mr. TAVENNER. Forty. Now, were there other plays being produced at the same time that you were producing Sing for Your Supper?
Mr. HECHT. Oh, yes; many of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know anything about Communist Party groups or cells within the cast which were involved in the production of other plays?
Mr. HECHT. No; I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you tell the committee just what the objective was of the group of Communists that had been organized within the Federal Theater, at least within your project, the one that was producing Sing for Your Supper?
Mr. HECHT. Well, they had the immediate objective of keeping their jobs, trying to influence the content of the show to some extent, and they had the larger objectives which all Communist Party members have of following the party line, of reading literature, of doing certain neighborhood work. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 299 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well now; with regard to the objective that you said all Communist Party groups have, in following the Communist Party line, do you recall in what way that manifested itself ?
Mr. HECITr. Well, there was constant pressure to keep up the appropriations for the Federal Theater and the WPA. There were certain groups organized to go to Washington and there wasMr. TAVENNER. You are speaking now of groups of Communist Party members?
Mr. HECHT. That is right. There was a great deal of picketing, for one reason or another. I can't remember much else. It seems to me there probably was something more, but I didn't spend a great deal of time at these meetings. I went to them approximately once a month or once in 3 weeks, and I had no other connection with it than that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you have any official connection with this group ? I mean did you you hold any position at any time ?
Mr. HECHT. I was what you would call in charge of literature, the literature director for a while. I sold the pamphlets to people. I took up subscriptions for the Daily Worker. I did all the various things connected with distributing and disseminating literature. When I was part of the group I had no greater position than anyone else in the group. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder reentered the hearing room at this point, 2: 15 p. m.)
Mr. TAVENNER. So that you had a rather small part in the Communist Party activity of the cell, as such, though you held a very important position in that you were the head of the project?
Mr. HECHT. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, did the Communist Party endeavor to influence you as the manager-is that the right term to use in your position ?
Mr. HECHT. Producer, I would say.
Mr. TAVENNER. As producer of this play?
Mr. HECHT. At one time there was great protest among a number of the comrades over the content of the show. There was a dress rehearsal and V. J. Jerome, who was the cultural director of the party, was at this dress rehearsal. The rehearsal was not given for him, but he was there. After the show-Mr. TAVENNER. V. J. Jerome at that time was the cultural director of the Communist Party in this country, was he not?
Mr. HECHT. I believe so. I am not sure that is his actual title, but that describes the position he held.
Mr. TAVENNER. It has appeared in the evidence during the course of this hearing or these hearings that V. J. Jerome was the person sent out from national headquarters to various parts of the country to settle disputes that existed within the party. He was sent here in the very early days of the party to straighten out various difficulties. Now you are telling us that he appeared at the dress rehearsal of your play, which you have described ?
Mr. HECHT. That is right. He settled this one. I remember we had a midnight meeting and he talked to us about the play. He felt that it was good, that while it did not necessarily follow the party line or was as left as a number of the people wanted it to beMr. TAVENNER. When you say "a number of people," what people? 300 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. HECHT. As I said before, there was a group of the people in this unit who had protested about the content of the show. They felt it wasn't sufficiently slanted to the left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were those persons members of the Communist Party?
Mr. HECHT. Oh, yes; they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. They were.
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. So, this dispute raised within your Communist Party cellMr. HECHT. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). Where some of them were of the opinion that the propaganda was not pointed enough?
Mr. HECHT. Or sufficiently strong.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or sufficiently strong ?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And V. J. Jerome was called in to settle that dispute; is that what I understand?
Mr. HECHT. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, just tell us what V. J.QJerome did.
Mr. HECHTrr. Well, he said he thought that it was a good show. If it was slanted any more it would become sectarian. The content of the show was good and these criticisms were unjust.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then was the show put on in substantially the same form that had been planned
Mr. HECHT. Yes; it was.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Suppose Mr. Jerome had not been in approval, do you believe that his influence would have been sufficient to change the content matter?
Mr. HECHT. Well, we were pretty far gone by that time. I think it might have been.
Mr. JACKSON. You think any suggested changes he might have made would have been incorporated into the production ?
Mr. HECHT. I wouldn't say any suggested changes, but I think if he suggested changes they certainly would have been taken into consideration.
Mr. JACKSON. The fact of his presence there would have indicated he was more or less acting in the capacity of censor of the production, would it not?
Mr. HECHT. Yes; I think you would say acting as a judge.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who took part in the conference with V. J. Jerome on the occasion that you mentioned ?
Mr. HECHT. I don't think there was anybody else from the officialfrom the party, any of the higher ups? any of the higher hierarchy.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are of the opinion that there were no persons superior to you that were involved in the Communist Party efforts to control this production; is that it?
Mr. HECHT. I am sorry. I thought you said "Who else appeared with Mr. Jerome?"
Mr. TAVENNER. I did start out the question that way. So let's start over. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 301 
Mr. HECHT. All right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did anyone else take part in the conference with V. J. Jerome-excuse me. Let me change that again. Who did take part in this conference with V. J. Jerome when he said that the play should not be more slanted than it was?
Mr. HECHT. No one, other than the people who were concerned with our group or unit.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were they
Mr. HECHT. There were a number of functionaries. There was Rose Pearson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Give us the spelling, please.
Mr. HECHT. I believe it is P-e-a-r-s-o-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Rose Pearson.
Mr. HECHT. Yes. Trudy Peck.
Mr. TAVENNER. Trudy Peck, P-e-c-k?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, sir. Robert Sloan and Georgia Burns.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell Burns?
Mr. HECHT. B-u-r-n-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the first name?
Mr. HECHT. Georgia.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell it, please?
Mr. HECHT. G-e-o-r-g-i-a.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Hecht, I believe it would be of great help to the committee if you would identify the occupations of these individuals, if you have that information.
Mr. HECHT. These people were connected with the project. They were aspiring actors and actresses. The Federal Theater was created for the unemployed in the theatrical profession, and most of the people were drawn from those ranks. These people were part of that group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did they hold any official positions in the Communist Party group of which you were a member ?
Mr. HECHT. NO, sir. These were people who were just part of the unit, a part of the show.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were they members of the Communist Party unit?
Mr. HECHT. Yes indeed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of which you were a member?
Mr. HECHT. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that another objective of this Communist Party group was to maintain the positions of various persons in and with the Federal Theater, if I understood you correctly.
Mr. HECHT. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by that?
Mr. HECHT. Well, if there was a tie or if there was a matter of doubt, we were expected to keep and to continue the member who belonged to the Communist Party. As I said before, at that time appropriations were being cut and there were quite a number of firings. While it was recognized that there couldn't be discrimination; however, we were expected to favor the members of the Communist Party in retaining their jobs. There was one instance I remember very well when we were asked to drop a number of people from one of the groups, and there was a person reported to be a 302 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Trotskyite and we let that person go. However, that person was not necessarily inferior to a number of other people who were in line for that same position. It struck me recently, when the suit was brought for $51 million, the Communists claimed that they can't be employed now because they are Communists, but they were framing to allow someone to be fired who was not a Communist, who was considered an enemy of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. So that the Communist Party interested itself in the firing of a person who was thought to be a Trotskyite.
Mr. HECHT. That is true.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. Are you referring to the $51 million lawsuit, you mean the lawsuit filed against members of this committee and other persons?
Mr. HECHT. Yes; I think I might become a partner of yours in that lawsuit.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Hecht, as far as that lawsuit is concerned, let me say for myself that I consider it a frivolous action, designed as a device by the Communist Party to hamper and hinder these hearings, to prevent us from uncovering the activity of those people who filed the suit against us; that it will be considered by me as such type of suit. Now, proceed.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. If you refer to the summons and complaint that was also served on me about an hour ago for about 51 million dollars, I want to give notice to the Communist subversives in this room or in the country or who are directly or indirectly interested in filing that suit, that that will not stop me in going after them. If they are subversive I will go after them any place. That is the way I feel about the suit you refer to.
Mr. CLARDY. Mr. Chairman, may I interject a remark?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLARDY. We two members have not been honored by being included in that suit, but if they think they will intimidate either of us from pursuing the activities of the committee by this threat, they are going to find themselves misjudging us. Do I speak for you, Mr. Scherer ?
Mr. SCHERER. Yes; and we haven't got a million dollars.
Mr. CLARDY. But I am flattered that they think the' members do have.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, not on that point, but on another point-Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. I think it is extremely interesting that the non-Communists in the Federal Theater setup were blacklisted in much the same manner, I should judge from your testimony, as is presently being claimed by unfriendly witnesses here in Hollywood. Am I to understand that if it came to a question of firing a Communist or non-Communist, you were expected to fire the non-Communist ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 303 iMr. HECIIT. That is true. If the non-Communist-I wouldn't say the non-Communist. I would say the outspoken anti-Communist.
Mr. JACKSON. The anti-Communist.
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr JACKSON. He got the ax
Mr. HECHT. That's right.
Mr. JACKSON. In a matter of casting, if you had a Communist and a non-Communist critic, I suppose there was no question as to who was to be employed.
Mr. HECHT. NO.
Mr. JACKSON. The Communist would get the job.
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. It is interesting to know there is some historical precedent for blacklisting.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Scherer.
Mr.SCHERER. The members of this project were paid from Federal funds at that time, were they not ?
Mr HECHT. Yes, they were.
Mr. SCHERER. Sir?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, they were.
Mr. SCHERER. Could I ask another question
Mr. VELDE. Yes, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. I believe you said that Mr. Jerome, when he was reviewing the play, said that if the play would be slanted as the Communists wanted it to be slanted it would appear too sectarian. Do you know what he meant by that ?
Mr. HECHT. I think he meant that it would be an out-and-out Communist propaganda.
Mr. CLARDY. They wanted to be more subtle about it, in other words.
Mr. HECHT. Yes, they did.
Mr. SCHERER. Who was head of the Federal project at that time?
Mr. HECHT. In New York George Kondolf was the head. Hallie Flanagan was the head of the national Federal Theater.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Would you give us those spellings, please
Mr. HECHT. George Kondolf, K-o-n-d-o-l-f. And Hallie Flanagan, F-l-a-n-a-g-a-n. I would like to say, if I may, I consider the Federal Theater a hallmark in the history of the American theater. There were a great many plays put on by the Federal Theater. A great many people saw them and a great many people got a great deal of enjoyment out of them. The art of the theater was really increased by the Federal Theater, and I hope you don't consider my remarks in any v.a an attack on the Federal Theater itself.
Mr. JACKSON. Were there a great many non-Communists in the Federal Theater?
Mr. HECHT. There were a great many non-Communists. A great many plays were produced and these plays were accorded very high esteem.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. In view of the witness' observation, however, about the Federal Theater, I think his testimony at this time shows that the 304 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA maximum number of people participating in the cast at any one time were 200 with a total cast membership of 500 during the whole period; that there were about 40 members of the Communist Party in the cast, which means about 1 in 5. So the Communist subversives made pretty good gravy.
Mr. HECHT. Out of this particular group; I don't know about the others.
Mr. DOYLE. I only refer to the group you were testifying about.
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. CLADYT. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLARDY. Another question suggests itself: You mentioned the fact that the Trotskyite branch were blacklisted, so to speak. Do I understand you correctly ?
Mr. HECHT. I never quite understood what a Trotskyite was. It seems to me a Trotskyite was anyone who had been a Communist and who no longer was a Communist and who might be attacked for that reason, as differing from an anti-Communist who had never been a Communist. I don't believe there was any organized Trotskvite group.
Mr. CLARDY. By that do you not mean those who adhere to the Trotsky brand of communism?
Mr. HECHT. It was a more embracing term that that, I would think.
Mr. CLARDY. What do you mean?
Mr. HECHT. I think it included many people who had been Communists and who were not Communists any longer and it was a very convenient label for them.
Mr. CLARDY. Is it not true that you probably blacklisted anyone who did not adhere to the official Communist Party line as such?
Mr. HECHT. Do you mean who had been a member of the party who did not-you see, there were a great many non-Communists in the Federal Theater.
Mr. CLARDY. NO, I mean this: Whether they were or were not members of the Communist Party is unimportant for the purpose of my question. I am trying to get at this: Isn't it true, if you were or had been a Communist but did not adhere firmly to the official party line, you were just as bad off as though you were completely outside the party? r. HECHT. Worse off, I would say.
Mr. VELDE. I believe this will be a proper place to break off for our recess. We will stand in recess until 2: 45. (Short recess was taken.)
Mr. VELDE. The committee will come to order. The chair recognizes Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, under the resolution of the committee relative to the matter of television facilities in the hearing room and in the Federal Building, the committee was unanimous in its expression that the facilities were considered desirable for public information, subject to certain specific provisions which were set forth in the resolution. I understand the resolution has been read in full. However, the one paragraph which is pertinent to a matter which has developed should be read again. That is paragraph 2 of the resolution, which states: COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 305 Telecasts of committee hearings shall be on the basis of a public service only and this fact shall be publicly announced on television at the beginning and close of each telecast. No commercial announcements will be made from the hearing room and no actual or intimated sponsorship of the hearings will be permitted in any instance. It develops, and there have been several complaints received by the committee to the effect, that immediately preceding the hearing this morning there was telecast a program which might have left an inference with the public that the hearings were being sponsored. The committee desires to make it very clear that that is not the case. There is no sponsorship of these hearings. It was the expressed hope of the committee that this fact would be made absolutely clear. I think, Mr. Chairman, that the television groups which are operating under this pool arrangement must take steps to insure that it be made very clear to the people of southern California there is no sponsorship nor should any be intimated.
Mr. VELDE. The chair recognizes Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, I join in the observations made by Congressman Jackson of Los Angeles County. I wish to expressly ask that the television outfits that are televising this committee work the rest of the week and today, the rest of the time today, either directly or indirectly immediately comply with the resolution of the committee. I would say if they don't comply they ought to be discontinued. We are not here as an advertising medium for any organization. We are here as United States Congressmen. I don't think that in any way any television outfit or any publicity outfit ought to capitalize on these hearings.
Mr. Chairman, I am saying again very emphatically they ought to discontinue it forthwith.
Mr. VELDE. The chair agrees with both the distinguished gentlemen from California. I feel it is the prerogative of these gentlemen to handle the issues which come up in their own State. However, I do want the public to know that we by no means are allowing these hearings to be broadcast for commercial purposes. This is merely a public service so that the people might have more information as to what goes on in their United States House of Representatives and their Congress. So the Chair will greatly appreciate it, and will insist no further reference to these hearings be made on a commercial basis. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Hecht, it seems that you must have been put in a very difficult position, having a responsibility to your employer, the Federal Theater, in doing the right sort of a job and at the same time being responsible to the Communist Party to observe its dictates with regard to whom you should continue in work, as to whom you should discharge. Now, have you anything further to say about that situation?
Mr. HECHT. Again, Mr. Tavenner, I don't want to give the impression this was flagrant. This happened all the time. These cases were isolated and few. Nevertheless, they existed. The Federal Theater couldn't have been the success it was, couldn't have done the work it did if this was a continual practice in the Federal Theater. But, certainly, it often made things difficult. 306 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. If I understand it correctly, the Federal Theaters were sponsored solely by Federal funds.
Mr. HECHT. That is true. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Funds from the United States Government.
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you terminate your relationship with the Federal Theater?
Mr. HECHT. In 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what was the reason for it?
Mr. HECHT. The show had gone on, the Federal Theater was cutting , appropriations to a great extent, and I could see that if I didn't leave very soon they would leave me. So I left the Federal Theater in April-I think probably in May 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your next employment?
Mr. HECHT. My next employment was as an agent with the Goldstone Agency.
Mr. CLARDY. Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLARDY. Counsel, had you asked him questions along the lines 'of discovering whether his knowledge really went beyond the one unit to which he was attached ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I think I asked him that question.
Mr. CLARDY. Do you think you have that thoroughly covered ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I think I understood the witness to say he did not know about the Communist Party in any other group.
Mr. HECHT. Not in any other group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me be certain about that. Did you have knowledge whether or not there existed a Communist Party cell in any other group of the Federal Theaters engaged in the production of any play ?
Mr. HECHT. I didn't have any direct knowledge, although I should imagine there were quite a few. I said I didn't have any direct knowledge. I never met with any of the groups, although I imagine there were quite a few.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether or not there was a fraction meeting of any kind made up of representatives of your own Communist Party cell and representatives of any other Communist Party cell within the Federal Theater ?
Mr. HECHT. I don't remember attending any.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have knowledge of Communist Party membership on the part of any other person in Federal Theaters, other than the ones you have mentioned?
Mr. HECHT. No, I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that cover it ?
Mr. CLARDY. Yes, that is what I wanted.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your employment after you terminated \ our relationship with the Federal Theater in May 1939
Mr. HECHT. I came to Hollywood. I was without a job for some time and then I became an agent with the Nat Goldstone Agency.
Mr. T.VENNER. When did you become an agent in that firm?
Mr. HECHT. Late in 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the other members of that firm at that time?
Mr. HECHT. There was Mr. Nat Goldstone, his brother Charles Goldstone, Louis Rantz, William Fay, and several others. I don't COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 307 remember them immediately, but I certainly could find out, if you wanted to know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to your becoming affiliated with that agency, had you reaffiliated with the Communist Party in Los Angeles?
Mr. HECIT. Yes, I did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee how that occurred.
Mr. HECHT. I met a Madelaine Ruthven after I had been here for about a month. I met her at a social function and she talked to me about coming to meetings. I had not sought her out, although I had heard that she was the secretary or the organizer for the Hollywood group. She asked me why I hadn't been to see her. Evidently she had heard about me and she felt I should have been to see her. I told her I had been inactive for some time before that, I hadn't gone to meetings for several months before I left New York, and I didn't care particularly whether I went to meetings or not. I again was out of work. I was feeling very low. I had great disillusion with the party, and I discussed this with her. She felt that this might be just a matter of my own personal feeling, and that when you are once a Communist you never could drop it completely or entirely, and she asked me to attend a meeting at Herbert Biberman's house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me stop you there a moment. How did Madelaine Ruthven know you had been a member of the Communist Party in New York?
Mr. HECHT. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you advise her before she said something to you about it ?
Mr. HECHT. No, I didn't. But she had evidently heard about me. I think it might have gone through the mail or through someone who, seeing that New York and Hollywood was rather closely alined, although the party here was more secretive than it was in New York, that in one of those ways she probably found out about me.
Mr. TAVENNER. You attended a meeting at whose home ?
Mr. HECHT. Herbert Biberman's.
Mr. T VENX-XER. Will you describe him more fully, please, as to his occupation ?
Mr. HECHT. Herbert Biberman was a director in Hollywood. He was formerly theatrical director in New York. He directed a number of plays, "Green Grow the Lilacs," and I believe he directed a play called "Red China," or "Raw China," but at any rate, he directed a number of plays in New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many meetings did you attend at his home?
Mr. HECHT. I attended several. I was then asked to go to meetings at Gertrude Purcell's home.
Mr. TAN-1NNER. Will you give the spelling of that name, please?
Mr. HECHT. P-u-r-c-el-l, I believe. I would like to explain the circumstances of this.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. HECHT. At this meeting at Herbert Biberman's house I met a Frank Tuttle. Frank Tuttle was a director of a picture for which I directed the dances at Paramount Pictures when I was in Hollywood before. He was the only man that I knew at that meeting. I was rather surprised to see him there. 308 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA After the meeting we had a discussion about my own feeling about communism, about his attitude toward it, and he asked me if I would go to a meeting at Gertrude Purcell's house, which I did. I went to a number of meetings there over a period of, I would say, about 6 to 8 months. I went to a number of meetings there and to a number of meetings at Biberman's house.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder. 
Mr. MoULDER. What was discussed at those meetings? That is one of the things we are interested in and would like to hear about. What was said there and what was your purpose in going there?
Mr. HECHT. I don't remember it too well. We discussed the state of the Nation, the state of the world, what the Communists must do to make it better. At that time the party was going through one of its changes and I remember in that year, I think it was August or September, the Nazi-Soviet pact was signed and that really blew the lid off. For a couple of months more this was the thing that was discussed. I think I went to about 4 meetings or 5.
Mr. MOULDER. When did you discontinue your affiliation with the Communist Party organization?
Mr. HECHT. At the beginning of 1940.
Mr. MOULDER. At the beginning of 1940 ?
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. MOULDER. At anytime since then have you in any way been connected with the Communist Party?
Mr. HECHT. I have not attended a meeting or been connected in any way with the Communist Party since then.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you think your prior membership with the Communist Party has influenced you in any way as a writer?
Mr. HECHT. I am a producer.
Mr. MOULDER. Or as a producer?
Mr. HECHT. No, I don't feel that it has influenced me in my work at all.
Mr. MOULDER. It has never at any time so influenced you ?
Mr. HECHT. I have never hired a Communist because he was a Communist. I have never had any communism propaganda in my pictures or never been accused of having any.
Mr. MOULDER. Was there any attempt on the part of any Communist leaders or persons in the party organization to so influence you?
Mr. HECHT. No, there wasn't. I left the party and no one ever tried to rerecruit me.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Hecht, I noticed before the recess you said "other things disturbed me a great deal, the lack of democracy." Those I think were your exact words. Now, a few minutes ago you said "I had great disillusion with the party." What did you mean when you said that the lack of democracy in the Communist Party disturbed you a great deal?
Mr. HECHT. One of the things that was told us and taught to us was that the Communist Party is a democratic organization, the members of which decided on the action and line of the party. This I found never to be true. I foundMr. DOYLE. You say never to be true? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 309 
Mr. HECHT. Well, it may have been true on ordinary and mundane things, you know, whether they should walk on a picket line at 3 or 5 o'clock. When there were important decisions, when important decisions were made, these decisions came down to us. 
Mr. DOYrE. Came from where?
Mr. HECHT. Some place from up above.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, you mean from some source of which you had no knowledge ?
Mr. HECHT. Yes. These matters were decided and they were passed on to us. It was considered a matter of party discipline to follow the line.
Mr. DOYnL. Well, did all members of the cell in which you were a member follow the party line, even though the orders came from somewhere, you didn't know where?
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you take dictation, in other words, from some outside source?
Mr. HECHT. That is true.
Mr. DoLE. Why did you do that?
Mr. HECHT. Because there were other things that I felt that the Communist Party stood for, and as I said before, it bothered me so much that was one of the most important reasons I left.
Mr. DOYLE. What other disillusion, if any, did you have with the party ? You said you had a great disillusion with the party.
Mr. HECHT. At this time Roosevelt was called a warmonger. The Communist Party had supported Roosevelt and supported him strongly, and suddenly he became a warmonger. It was a little difficult to follow and a little difficult to swallow. It was also at this time, as I said before, the Nazi-Soviet pact occurred. One of the reasons I came into the party was because the party was fighting against nazism and against facism, and now for some reason that I couldn't understand or believe in, although there were great attempts made to explain it, this was changed and communism and nazism were alined.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, didn't you have any power of helping to make those decisions, as a member of the Communist Party
Mr. HECHT. As I said, Congressman, there was no democratic procedure in the party. You could have questioned. There was often discussion, but at the end of the discussion you were supposed to be clear on it.
Mr. DOYLE. From some outside source ?
Mr. HECHT. From some inside source, the origination of which you didn't know.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. MOULDER. Just one question.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. During the past 12 years, or since you ceased affiliation with the Communist Party, have you any information or knowledge of any Communist activities in the entertainment field, motion picture, musical or on the stage, concerning the efforts of Communists to infiltrate in and take control over their organizations or to influence their productions? 31747-53-pt. 1--- 310 CO1IMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. HECHT. No; I haven't. I have read a number of things that have come up during the committee meetings, but outside of that I had no knowledge.
Mr. FRAZIER. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Frazier.
Mr. FRAZIER. Mr. Hecht, during your membership in the Communist Party, from 1936 to 1940, I believe you stated you belonged to three separate and distinct cells. First, in Brooklyn and thenWhere was the second cell you belonged to, in New York City?
Mr. HECHT. That is right.
Mr. FRAZIER. And thenMr. HECHT. West 48th Street, and the other was also on West 48th Street.
Mr. FRAZIER. Then a cell composed of the Federal Theater, is that right?
Mr. HECHT. That was the third.
Mr. FRAZIER. Now, did the teachings that were carried on in these cells have any similarity with the same things carried on in each one of these cells?
Mr. HECHT. To a great extent. Propaganda and party line changed constantly, and we struggled to keep abreast of the events.
Mr. FRAZIER. Do you recall any of the members that you were associated with up in the Brooklyn cell?
Mr. HECHT. NO; I don't.
Mr. FRAZIER. I believe you said there were about 40 members of the Federal Theater to which you belonged.
Mr. HECHT. That's correct.
Mr. FRAZIER. Do you recall any of those names of members that associated with you there?
Mr. HECHT. I gave the names of the four members I recall.
Mr. FRAZIER. Only the four?
Mr. HECHT. Yes, sir.
Mr. FRAZIER. Have you had association with any of those men since you left the Communist Party, men or women ?
Mr. HECHT. NO, I have never seen them. You see the Federal Theater was composed, for the most part, of actors who had been unemployed, who were interested in working in the theater, and there was professional and also semiprofessional. These people I have had no contact with since I saw them last during this part.
Mr FRAZIER. That's all.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr TAVENNER. Mr. Hecht, as I understood you to say, you wanted to describe the circumstances under which you attended the Communist Party meeting at the home of Gertrude Purcell. I am not certain whether you finished your testimony about that.
Mr. HECHT. I thought I did. You asked me if I belonged to the group at Purcell's house. I said I went to meetings at both groups and I never considered myself and I didn't know whether the Communists considered me particularly identified with either group, but I went to meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. At both homes for a long period of time?
Mr. HECHT. I would say between 6 and 8 months. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 311 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you advise the committee who were in attendance at those meetings, that is, the Communist Party at Biberman's home and at the home of Gertrude Purcell ?
Mr. HECHT. YOU want the names?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. HECHT. Betty Anderson.
Mr. JACKSON. With identification as to occupation, if you know the occupation.
Mr. TAVENNER. Give all of the identifying material you can.
Mr. HECHT. Betty Anderson, I believe, is a housewife, was a secretary. Martin Berkeley was a writer. Edward Biberman, a painter. Herbert Biberman, director. John Bright, writer; Gordon Kahn, writer; John Howard Lawson, writer; Mel Levy, writer; Albert Maltz, writer; Gertrude Purcell, writer; Meta Reis, housewife at that time; Madelaine Ruthven, professional Communist; Budd Schulberg, writer. Madelaine Ruthven was also a writer. Gale Sondergaard, actress, and Frank Tuttle, director.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you mention the name of Budd Schulberg
Mr. HECHT. Yes; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, the following persons who were just mentioned by the witness have testified before this committee and admitted their former Communist Party membership and have testified freely before the committee; namely, Betty Anderson, George Bassman, Martin Berkeley, Mel Levy, and Meta Reis [RosenbergJ, Budd Schulberg, and Frank Tuttle. Did you go through any formality in terminating your Communist Party membership ?
Mr. HECHT. No; I didn't. I just stopped going to meetings, drifted out. I drifted out. I left the party and I went to no more meetings after the beginning, I would say, of January and February of 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time that you withdrew from the party by ceasing to attend meetings, you were with the agency that you mentioned, the Goldstone Agency ?
Mr. HECHT. The Goldstone Agency.
Mr. TAVENNER. With the Goldstone Agency, were you not?
Mr. HECHT. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did your withdrawal from the Communist Party result in any change in attitude on the part of former business associates with your agency?
Mr. HECHT. You mean clients ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. HECHT. Whom I might have represented in the agency?
Mr. TAVENNEE. Yes. 
Mr. HECHT. NO; I made no formal break with the party. I had no quarrel with the people in the party. I was disturbed and disillusioned about many of the facets and the practices of the party and I just left. However, I made no formal observance of that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you in a position to state to the committee what percentage of your clients while you were an agent were members of the Communist Party? 312 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. HECHT. Yes, sir. You probably noticed me looking at a number of notes I have here. I have gone through these things rather carefully and if you don't mind I will refer to them more or less constantly. When I first went into the agency business, this was 1940 to 1942. In 1942 I went into the Army. I had 36 clients. Ten of these clients were named.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have been named?
Mr. HECHT. Before this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before this committee as members of the Com- munist Party ?
Mr. HECHT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Out of a total of how many ?
Mr. HECHT. Thirty-six.
Mr. JACKSON. On that point, if I may, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you have any connections, professional connections, in line with your job as agent in the studios who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HECHT. You mean officials of the studios ?
Mr. JACKSON. Officials or those with whom you dealt in your work as an agent.
Mr. HECHT. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. No one in the studios who were known to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HECHT. NO.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you an actor's or writer's agent?
Mr. HECHT. Mostly writer's agent.
Mr. JACKSON. Then I will rephrase the question: No one with whom you were called upon to discuss scripts in the studios, none of these individuals were known to you to be members of the Communist Party?
Mr. HECHT. I believe Meta Reis became a story editor at Paramount Pictures, but I think this was much later. At any rate, I never discussed party activities with her during the work and I never represented or tiied to sell any material because it was written by a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. Was George Willner a member of your agency during the time you were a member of the Goldstone Agency ?
Mr. HECHT. George Willner came to the agency sometime after, sometime shortly before I went into the Army. George Willner, incidentally, met me in the hall and said, "I understand you are going to be a stool pigeon." I want George Willner to know that he will not intimidate me in any way by remarks and expressions of that kind.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did that occur?
Mr. HECHT. In the luncheon recess.
Mr. TAVENNER. When?
Mr. HECHT. Today.
Mr. JACKSON. Here in the Federal Building?
Mr. HECHT. Here in the Federal Building.
Mr. SCHERER. Who said that?
Mr. HECHT. George Willner. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES-IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 313 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, for the benefit of the members of the committee who were not here at the time, George Willner was brought before the committee and refused to testify on a previous occasion.
Mr. SCHERER. On grounds it would incriminate him?
Mr. TAVENNER. On grounds it would tend to incriminate him. A number of witnesses have identified him as having been a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. SCHERER. Is he here in the hearing room now ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I do not know.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. When he asked you the question or made the statement as to whom you were going to turn stool pigeon on, what was he referring to?
Mr. HECHT. We carried the conversation no further. I imagine he was referring to the fact that I was going to divulge the fact that I was a member of the Communist Party and tell the committee all the things I know about the Communist Party and all the people I knew working in it.
Mr. MOULDER. He was referring to your testimony as a witness subpenaed here, the testimony you were about to give in this hearing.
Mr. HECHT. I only know what he said and I didn't question him any further about it, Congressman, but I would deduce that is what he was referring to.
Mr. MOULDER. Was there anything else said ?
Mr. HECHT. No.
Mr. MOULDER. How long were you in the United States Army ?
Mr. HECHT. Three years.
Mr. MOULDER. That would make your return from the service about 1945, I believe?
Mr. HECHT. That is correct.
Mr. MOULDER. After you returned from the service in the United States Army how were you employed
Mr. HECHT. I went into the agency business by myself, or, rather, in partnership with Louis Rantz, who had been working with the Goldstone Agency since I was there.
Mr. MOULDER. Have you reaffiliated with the Communist Party when you were discharged from the Army ?
Mr. HECHT. No; I have never been to a meeting of the Communist Party since I left the Communist Party in the early part of 1940.
Mr. MOULDER. Has any effort been made on the part of any person to recruit you again into the Communist Party ?
Mr. HECHT. NO, there hasn't been. As a matter of fact, I wondered why. The Communist Party evidently thought that I was not a good Communist. As a matter of fact, Martin Berkeley, who identified me and who has helped me recollect a number of things that have helped me in my testimony today, remembers me as being a very poor Communist. So I think that the party probably thought there wasn't much that they could actually get from my being in the party.
Mr. MOULDER. Have you represented known members of the Communist Party since your return from your service in the Army? 314 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. HECHT. I have never represented any member of the Commu- nist Party because he was a member of the Communist Party. I have represented known Communists. I represented a number that were known to me as Communists; two, as a matter of fact, Frank Tuttle and Roland Kibbee. Kibbee is a man that I lived with when he first came to Hollywood in 1939, and at that time he told me that he was leaving the party.
Mr. MOULDER. Since your return from the United States Army have you knowingly employed any member of the Communist Party in connection with your own work?
Mr. HECHT. I have not. I have never employed a member of the Communist Party because he was a member of the Communist Party. I employed people purely and simply because I thought they were talented and the best suited to the work that I was looking for. In December 1950 I made a flat policy with our company of not hiring any more Communists, investigating them and making sure that we did not hire any more Communists, and since that time we have carried this out. Before that-I want to say again-I never hired anyone because I knew he was a Communist, for that reason, but from that date we investigated and made specifically sure as to that.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask the witness why you declared that policy in December 1950.
Mr. HECHT. At that time the Communist conspiracy became clear to me.
Mr. DOYLE. What conspiracy ? 
Mr. HECIIT. The conspiracy of the Communist Party in this country with the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union's aggressive actions against this country throughout the world.
Mr. DOYLE. What evidence did you get in December 1950 or before that, which made you believe there was a Soviet conspiracy against this country
Mr. HECHT. Shortly before this the Korean war broke out. 
Mr. DOYLE. What did that have to do with it?
Mr. HECHT. This showed me fully and clearly that you were either in one camp or another. This is a policy, I might say, that I followed with the studios.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you mean to tell me, in answer to my question, that when you say you are either in one camp or another, that a Communist cannot be in the American camp and still be a member of the American Communist Party?
Mr. HECHT. I think that's correct. I think you will agree with me when I say that is so.
Mr. DOYLE. I do agree with you. The fact is that I asked you a question the way I do is not because I differ with you, but because I was in Korea a few months ago and I had that made manifest to me by what I have seen with my own eyes.
Mr. Chairman, may I ask two more questions of this witness2
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. DOYLE. What propels or compels you to come here today and tell not only your own experiences but to do what this man Willner evidently criticized you for doing, becoming a stool pigeon, in his filthy COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 315 language. That is what he called you, and when you do give the names of known Communists to this committee it is helping us very materially and it is a help to your country. What got under your skin to make you do that? You are a noted producer. I feel your answer to that question may help the public and this committee very much to understand.
Mr. HECHT. I think it has become clear that Communists and people associated with Communists are enemies of this country. We must be alined with the forces of democracy and against communism. We can no longer straddle the fence. Today I wouldn't represent a Communist. I wouldn't hire one. Communism is a conspiracy and the Communist Party in this country is a tool of the Soviet Union. I didn't look forward to my appearance here today in a sense of enjoying it. I am not a public speaker, but I am grateful for the opportunity of being allowed to testify. I think this committee renders a valuable service in providing the forum for an ex-Communist to state his present position clearly and firmly. There are many people in this country similar to me, people who are not necessarily Communists, but people who are left all the way to the center, and these people, I believe, are gradually becoming more and more aware of the sinister ways of the Communist Party and the place where they belong. They need new forces to work with and new friends. That is an important part of the anti-Communist program and I would like to be a part of it.
Mr. DOYLE. My last question, Mr. Chairman, is this: We operate, or this committee operates under Public Law 601. A part of that law passed by the Congress provides that this committee in its work shall recommend to the United States Congress remedial legislation in the field of subversive activities or propaganda. While I realize that you, sir, are not to be considered an expert in that field any more than we are, in view of the fact that our statutory assignment as a congressional committee expressly says in the statute 601 that we shall recommend to Congress remedial legislation in this field, have you any suggestion to us as a congressional committee of any different or additional legislation at the national level, which we ought to consider? I know the ordinary legislation that is brought out is to outlaw the Communist Party. Before you answer in any other way I would ask the you if you have any considered opinion on that subject; should Communist Party be outlawed or not?
Mr. HECHT. It seems to me it would be a good idea. I can't underreasons stand why it hasn't been done before. There may be various for it that are not clear to me.
Mr. DoYLE. Have you any other suggestions?
Mr. HECHT. No, but I would like to think about it and I would like to write you about it.
Mr. DOLE. I am sure, Mr. Chairman, we would welcome his suggestion.
Mr. VELDE. Certainly.
Mr. DoYLE. Thank you very much.
Mr. VELDE. Do you have anything further, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. JACKSON. I have just one question.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Jackson. 3t1( COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE aJof u 
Mr. JACKSON. The emphasis to this point has been upon those in the theater, the Federal Theater, who were Communists or who followed the Communist line, emphatic and vocal. Can you give me any idea of any anti-Communists who were in the Federal Theater, who were outspoken in their denunciation?
Mr. HECHT. No; I don't remember any in the Federal Theater. I think at that time, if you remember the political climate then, to be an outspoken anti-Communist during that period, I believe you probably would have been called a Fascist.
Mr. JACKSON. In that time and in this time as well. What was the year, Mr. Hecht ?
Mr. HECHT. 1937, 1938, and 1939, during the Communist support of the New Deal. The point is a little vague to me, but I think that is probably so.
Mr. JACKSON. Aside from the committee investigators your counsel and our counsel, the gentleman you spoke of a little while ago who called you a stool pigeon, have you discussed this appearance with any other person or persons?
Mr. HECHT. I told my wife about it.
Mr. JACKSON. It is pretty hard to get down here, I imagine, without doing that.
Mr. HECHT. She wouldn't let me go withoutMr. JACKSON. But you have not discussed it with anyone else? No effort has been made by anyone to dissuade you from appearing?
Mr. HECHT. No.
Mr. JACKSON. And no promises have been made for your appearance?
Mr. HECHT. No.
Mr. JACKSON. That's all.
Mr. CLARDY. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Clardy.
Mr. CLARDY. A number of times in your testimony, and, of course, it appears consistently in the testimony of practically every witness before us who cooperates, we find the phrase "party line and the "shift of party line." Then, a moment ago, you frankly told us that you understood it to be the implacable purpose of the Communists to destroy us, to turn us over to the Soviet system. I just want to be sure that this record does not have something in it that might lead us to a wrong conclusion. When you talk about a shift of the party line you do not mean that the Communist purpose to destroy us has shifted, but merely the Communist tactics to achieve it, is that true?
Mr. HECHT. That is true. It takes a long time for things to become clear.
Mr. CLARDY. It finally became clear that was their purpose and these shifts from time to time were merely shifts in tactics in their efforts to achieve that objective. 
Mr. HECHT. That is true.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Hecht, when Mr. Tavenner was asking you your reasons for leaving the party, I believe you said, and I quote, "became disturbed and disillusioned by many of the facets of the party."
Mr. HECHT. Facets and practices, probably. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 317 
Mr. SCHERER. Isn't it a fact, Mr. Hecht, that originally you felt that the Communist Party was opposed to anti-Semitism and that now you know it is violently anti-Semitic ?
Mr. HECHT. That is true.
Mr. ScHERER. Your experience indicates that what I have said is true about the party?
Mr. HECHT. That is true.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. I have only one question. You made some reference a while ago to a professional Communist. What is a professional Communist ?
Mr. HECHT. I would say a professional Communist is someone who works for the Communist Party and gets paid by the Communist Party.
Mr. MOULDER. A party organizer, and works for the party?
Mr. HECHT. That is right.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. No further questions.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Frazier.
Mr. FRAZIER. No further questions.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Counsel, is there any reason why this witness should not be dismissed?
Mr. TAVENNER. No.
Mr. VELDE. The Chair desires to thank the witness for his appearance here, adding considerable knowledge to the great fund obtained by this committee, and disseminated throughout the country. It has been a privilege to hear you speak frankly on the issue of communism, and give us the benefit of your beliefs. The witness is hereby dismissed.
Mr. VELDE. Your next witness.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Edward Huebsch.
Mr. VELDE. Will you stand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you shall give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. HUEBSCH. I do.
Mr. VELDE. Let the record show at this point that present are Mr. Jackson, Mr. Clardy, Mr. Scherer, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Frazier, and the chairman, Mr. Velde. TESTIMONY OF EDWARD HUEBSCH, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, WILLIAM B. ESTERMAN 