Mr. WOOD. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU are Mr. Harold J. Ashe? 
Mr. ASHE. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Ashe?
Mr. ASHE. Irvington, Pa., February 18, 1901.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession or calling?
Mr. ASHE. I am a free-lance magazine writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at one time a functionary in the Socialist Party? 
Mr. ASHE. I was
Mr. TAVENNER. What position did you hold in the Socialist Party ! 1418  
Mr. ASHE. State secretary of the Socialist Party of California.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you State secretary of the Socialist Party ?
Mr. ASHE. Approximately 10 months, approximately a little longer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time was that?
Mr. ASHE. I would say from about February or March of 1933 until possibly December or January of 1933 or 1934.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period when you held that position where did you reside?
Mr. ASHE. At the Socialist Party headquarters in Hollywood, know as Commonwealth House.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time were you acquainted with the activities of the Communist Party in California?
Mr. ASHE. Not at the outset, except by hearsay.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occasion for your learning of the activities of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. I learned of the activities of the Communist Party directly on joining the Communist Party in September of 1933.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then if I understand you correctly, that while you were State secretary of the Socialist Party of the State of California you were also a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. At a later date, yes. I joined the Communist Party and the instant I joined the party I was assigned back to the Socialist Party to work within the Socialist Party and to help capture it and channel Socialist Party members into the Communist Party, which I did do.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of the effort made by the Communist Party to capture membership from the Socialist Party. Will you describe to the committee what that effort was and how it materialized
Mr. ASHE. Prior to my actually coming into the Communist Party the Socialist Party--or the Communist Party through Sam Darcy, the district organizer of the Communist Party, issued a call to the Socialist Party to meet with the Communists on the basis of certain minimum demands and for purposes of establishing a united front. I believe the issue at the time was the threat of fascism, in which I was greatly interested and in which the Socialist Party showed very little real interest.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that effort to bring the Socialist Party in as a part of the united front successful?
Mr. ASHE. TO some extent, yes. The State executive committee of the Socialist Party resisted it. I was the only member of the State executive committee, I believe, that voted in favor of the united front. Subsequently I was expelled, or rather removed as State secretary of the Socialist Party, but I wasn't expelled at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Upon the failure of the Communist Party to obtain an approval by a majority of the executive committee of the Socialist Party to the Communist front-I mean to the united front plan, what plan did the Communist Party adopt to capture the Socialist Party?
Mr. ASHE. Well, of course, at first they tried to establish a united front from above through the leadership. This failing, they then resorted to what was called the united front from below. In other words, they reached out and appealed to the individual rank-and-file Socialists who were discouraged with the lack of initiative on the  1419 part of the Socialist Party and who, like myself, were preoccupied with the danger of communism. This was quite successful. I might add that at the February 1934 convention of the Socialist Party a very large part of the delegates walked out and reorganized themselves into a rump convention. I would say that possibly 50 of these delegates were in this rump convention. It was almost as large as the remaining Socialist Party convention. Ultimately, according to Sam Darcy, the Communist Party recruited approximately 600 dues-paying Socialist Party members into the Communist Party, at which point the Communist Party had succeeded in doubling its membership.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was in that campaign, in that effort by the Communist Party that you became a member ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ASHE. I joined in September of 1933. I broke off all organizational connection with the Communist Party on February 14. 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you relate more in detail to the committee the circumstances under which you became a member of the Communist Party; that is, who recruited you into the party and what initial steps were taken.
Mr. ASHE. I haven't too clear a recollection now of all of the initial steps that were taken to get in touch with or put me in touch with the Communist Party. I do remember distinctly that the organizational secretary of the Communist Party, Lawrence Ross, was one of the signers of my application card, and subsequently I met with Lawrence Ross two or three evenings a week.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you first became a member and had these conferences with Lawrence Ross, what instructions were given you as to your activity within the Socialist Party, of which you were then the State secretary ?
Mr. ASHE. I can only remember in a general sort of way. It was simply to retain my position in the Socialist Party, not to expose myself as a Communist but to infiltrate as much as I could in the Socialist Party to recruit wherever possible. I did do a nominal amount of recruiting, and I understand this same recruiting was going on in other parts of the State where the Communists also had party members in the Socialist Party. There were at that time some, oh. 30 or 40 or 50 locals of the Socialist Party scattered around the State.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you first became a member of the Communist Party, did you meet an individual by the name of Stanley Lawrence?
Mr. ASHE. I met Mr. Lawrence later. Mr. Lawrence came along in about 1935. He was misrepresented to the Communist Party as being an expert in underground work and that he was a liaison man in, I believe, Hungary or Austria for important Communist members there. Later independent investigation of mine revealed that he had been a Los Angeles taxicab driver. Just a little deceit on the part of the Communist Party leadership.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was a device used by the leadership of the Communist Party to build up Stanley Lawrence?
Mr. ASHE. They undertook to use him to educate the party leadership in Los Angeles County on underground work and things of that 1420 nature. I might add that he knows less about underground work than my 6-year-old girl.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe to the committee just what the activities of Lawrence were, as far as you know ?
Mr. ASHE. At a later date he was put in charge of Hollywood ac- tivity, organizing the party in studios, with particular emphasis on professionals in the studios-the writers, the actors, and so forth. This took the form originally, I believe, of studio study clubs. I know Mr. Lawrence used to come down to the headquarters of the party and depart with two or three hundred dollars' worth of books, cloth-bound books, every week. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The investigation conducted by the committee dis- closes that V. J. Jerome came to Hollywood at the time that St.anley Lawrence was still here. 
Mr. ASHE. Well, as I remember it, Stanley Lawrence made a very observing remark which, however, the comrades resented very much. I think he said-in the presence of some of the studio comrades, I think he made the observation that the people in Hollywood, including the comrades, were "only fat cows to be milked." Of course, at that time the party had quite a few good-looking milkmaids. This resulted in his ultimate removal, and Mr. Jerome succeeded to that position. I first met Mr. Jerome in about, oh, I would say June or July of 1936. He was here coincidental with Earl Browder. He didn't come with Earl Browder but he arrived while Earl Browder was here, and I was the first person that Jerome contacted.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before proceeding further with the development of Communist activities in Hollywood proper, I would like for you to state what your first assignment was after joining the party, other than having to do with the work of recruiting within the Socialist Party. 
Mr. ASHE. After I came back from the national convention of the Communist Party in Cleveland, which was early in 1934, my first assignment was to the International Workers' Order. This assignment was given to me by Elmer Hanoff, the county organizer of the Communist Party. I did not solicit the assignment from the International Workers' Order. I want that to be explicitly understood. In other words, I went in there on the instructions of the Communist Party, and I was accepted by the IWO as their organizer on the representation of the Communist Party that I was suitable for the work.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not this was the beginning of the work of the -International Workers' Order in California ? 
Mr. ASHE. The International Workers' Order was already well organized when I went into it. They had, I would say, 12 or 15 lodges, and most of them-in fact, all of them save one-were foreign- language lodges. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if you received your appointment and directions through the Communist Party, was it your opinion and conclusion at that time that it was an organization dominated and controlled by the Communist Party ?
Mr. AsHE. The International Workers' Order was controlled lock, stock, and barrel by the Communist Party and was so known.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you consider it a part of the Communist move- ment?  1421 
Mr. AsTrE. Definitely. I have received many donations from the various lodges of the International Workers' Order given directly to the Communist Party, knowingly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any particular cell of the Communist Party when you first joined ?
Mr. ASHE. I was first assigned to a street unit in the Hollywood street section of the Communist Party. This was early in 1934. However, I was traveling a great deal of the time for the party as a speaker, and I daresay I didn't attend more than a dozen meetings all during 1934.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by "street section"?
Mr. ASHE. I use that term to differentiate from the section that later was developed there which was known as the studio section. There has been a great deal of confusion about this in the minds of a lot of people. They are two entirely separate and distinct sections. The street section was then organized along strictly territorial or geographical lines. The studio section did not recognize any geographical limitations but was determined by whether a person worked in the studios or not.
Mr. TAVENNER. But at this particular time to which you now refer, if a person from the studio happened to live within the geographical section, he likely would have been a member of the particular cell?
Mr. ASHE. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. That section?
Mr. ASHE. That is correct except, back in 1934, I question very much whether there were very many important studio people that were members of any unit of the party in Hollywood. They may have been members at large, or there may have been some other dispensation to take care of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was this street section also commonly known as the downtown section?
Mr. ASHE. No; the downtown section was a different section, entirely. The downtown section composed roughly the forty-fourth, forty-fifth, and fifty-fourth assembly districts. It included all of the assembly districts from the Fourteenth Congressional District except the sixty-second.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, when did you become exposed publicly as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. Immediately upon my return from the Cleveland convention of the Communist Party, where I was one of the speakers.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was in 1934 ?
Mr. ASHE. 1934. In fact, I was exposed at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. After your exposure, what unit or section of the Communist Party were you assigned to?
Mr. ASHE. It was at that time that I went into this Hollywood unit.
Mr. TAVENNER. Oh, I see
Mr. ASHE. And, as I say I was there probably until late fall, 1934. I was running for State oice, and I didn't attend very many meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. What State office were you running for?
Mr. ASHE. Secretary of state.
Mr. TAVENNER. On what party?
Mr. AHE. Communist Party. 1422  
Mr. TAVENNER. After you served as a member of the Hollywood street section or group, were you transferred to another section? \Ir. ASHE. I was transferred to the downtown section, and because of certain difficulties I was experiencing in Hollywood with a man by the name of Tashjian, who was, apparently, out to give me a very bad time. Bob Minor intervened and, I understand, gave Mr. Tashjian a bad time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you: Was he a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. Dr. Tashjian? 'Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. ASHE. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What position did he hold, if any, in the Communist Party ?
Mr. ASHE. At that time I was unable to find out whether he held any position or not, but he exerted a great deal of influence. He had a considerable gift for intrigue and also for stirring up factional disputes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you describe the doctor a little more fully. What type of doctor was he ? Was he a medical doctor ?
Mr. ASHE. He was what Bob Minor referred to contemptuously as a "proletarian dentist."
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result-he is not living at this time; is he?
Mr. ASHE. I believe that he died sometime ago after leaving a Communist meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any effort to discipline you as a member of the Communist Party as the result of the complaint or dispute which the doctor had aroused?
Mr. ASHE. Well, Dr. Tashjian was a rigid little disciplinarian; and, not having understood clearly how I had come into the party, which involved a considerable period of training and study under Lawrence Ross and under Elmer Hanoff, the organization secretary and organizer of the party, respectively, which involved meetings sometimes two and three times a week with them, Dr. Tashjian decided that I had not gone to a beginner's class and that I should go to a beginner's class. Well, I had been to about the equivalent of three beginner's classes, and I had been speaking officially in the name of the Communist Party throughout the State at mass meetings and had been meeting in closed meetings of the Communist Party to help them straighten out matters; so, I thought this was going a little bit too far. However, he did enforce his point, and I was obliged to go to one beginners' class in Hollywood, the only time I attended. The next day, when the county leadership found out what happened and when Bob Minor found out what happened, they went into a huddle and gave Dr. Tashjian, I understand, a very, very bad time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was the doctor known as the chairman of the disciplinary committee?
Mr. ASHE. Not at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Not at that time?
Mr. ASHE. He later succeeded to that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you have stated that you were assigned to the downtown section.
Mr. ASHE. That's right.  1423 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you in that section of the Communist Party ? itMr. AsIE. I was in the downtown section, or the successors to my they changed the terminology some-until the day I terminated1939. membership in the Communist Party, which was in February
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I would like to go back to the first group that you were assigned to, the Hollywood street group, and ask you if you can identify the names of the members of that group.
Mr. ASHE. I will try. Bill and Clara Ward were members; my wife and I were members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, let's not go quite so fast there. Bill 
Mr. ASHS. Bill and Clara Ward.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you, in identifying them, give us such further information relating to them as you can from your recollection as to their participation and their position and vocation ?
Mr. ASHE. Well, I never did-well, I'll take that back. I do now know what Bill Ward's vocation was. He was a police officer in the Los Angeles Police Department. Bill and Clara Ward at various times were on-or, I believe, at one time she was membership director. At another time-this is for the county. At another time I believe she was dues secretary, and for a considerable length of time she served on the disciplinary committee. In fact, I was on the disciplinary committee for a while with her. Bill, to my knowledge-I don't believe ever held any position of responsibility, but merely went along with his wife and sat in on many of these meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. Will you continue?
Mr. ASHE. There was a man by the name of Morton Beeman. 1 I believe he is now deceased. It is my recollection that he was organizer at least part of the time while I was in; his wife, Ruth, whose first name I can't now recall. There were two Japanese whom I can't further identify. One or two other people whom I can't bring into focus at this time, and in addition, there was Will Geer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will Geer?
Mr. ASHE. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was his occupation?
Mr. ASHE. I believe at that time he was trying to get work in the studios. Probably did occasional bit work.
Mr. TAVENNER. A person by the name of Will Geer, an actor, appeared before the committee in Washington and refused to answer questions that were propounded to him regarding his alleged Communist Party affiliations and activities. Do you know whether it was the same individual?
Mr. ASHE. Well, it is only an assumption on my part. I think it is a fair assumption, because I followed Will Geer's professional career for some years. I know that the same Will Geer that I knew in 1934 was the Will Geer who appeared in two outstanding theatrical productions in 1937 in New York City. He was appearing in two simultaneously, as I recall it. I believe one was called Pins and Needles. I don't at the moment recall the other one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, do you know whether or not there was any change in the spelling of his name ? SAn individual was named by Mrs. Mildred Ashe as Morton Beaman. 1424 
Mr. ASHE. I have noticed lately that he spells it differently than when I knew him. When I knew Will Geer he spelled it G-h-e-r-e, I believe. I think he has since simplified it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether he played in a picture called the Tall Target or the Man on the Train?
Mr. ASHE. I wouldn't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether he played in a picture called Lights Out, at Universal Studio ?
Mr. ASHE. No; I do not. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you meet at that time a person by the name of Rose Elfman ?
Mr. ASHE. I have since tried to refresh my memory on her, and at this time I wouldn't want to say under oath whether she is or is not a Communist. I know the woman. I have seen her around meetings. 1 can visualize her at a Hollywood street demonstration that we had, but at this time I cannot positively place the woman as to party affiliation.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of having met several Japanese at that time.
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall their names?
Mr. ASIIE. No; I cannot. I might say, however, there were, to the best of my recollection, about 40 Japanese members of the Communist party in Los Angeles. This was their principal concentration point, and they had a nationality commission that was located in Los Angeles contrary to the procedure of other nationality commissions.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the testimony of General Willoughby before the committee several weeks ago relating to the Sorge spy trial in Japan, it developed there was a Japanese by the name of Miyagi who was executed as one of the spies in that spy ring, came from Japan and was a member of the United States Communist Party. In the course of the interrogation of Miyagi in Japan, he referred to certain activities of the party in California, which I want to call to your attention. In describing the activities in 1930, which I understand was earlier than your connection with the partyMr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. He stated that it fostered-meaning by "it" the Communist Party-fostered strikes in the Imperial Valley against such large capital concerns as the Girard Co. and the Sun Fruit Co. and agitated among the fishermen and fishing-industry workers in San Pedro. In the course of your activities in the party, did you obtain any information relating to those incidents?
Mr. ASHE. I knew about them only from having been told about them by other Communist Party members. I know that at a later date another effort was made to organize the unorganized field workers in Imperial Valley, and I believe also in the San Joaquin Valley. I believe these strikes were broken. I am not too clear now as to the outcome of them. They were Communist-led.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, while you were a member of the downtown group of the Communist Party, were you assigned the task of organizing units or sections of the Communist Party or cells of the Communist Party ?  1425 
Mr. ASHE. At one time I was. I held possibly 20 positions at one time or another in the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I think this would be a good time for you to state just what positions you have held in the Communist Party.
Mr. ASHE. Well, I was State chairman of the State central committee of the party in 1936. I was downtown-section organizer for about a year, year and a half; Western Worker correspondent for approximately a year.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, right there for just a moment. What publication was that ?
Mr. ASHE. Western Worker, official publication of the Communist Party at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it succeeded by another publication? 
Mr. ASHE. Yes. I was succeeded by the People's Daily World.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. ASHE. I believe I was county chairman at one time of the Relief Workers' Protective Union, which was composed of unemployed workers and which was a very fine source for recruiting party members at that time. I was chairman of various united-front groups. I was official speaker for the Communist Party for a considerable period of time. I toured the State. I believe I edited a paper called the Hunger Fighter, official organ of the Relief Workers' Protective Union, and probably held a good many other jobs. I taught briefly in the Los Angeles Workers' School, taught what was known as labor journalism. Actually it was teaching them basic English. I can't think of any more offhand. Oh, yes, I served for a while on the Los Angeles County disciplinary committee and I was a member of the executive committee of the Communist Party here in Los Angeles County.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you connected at any time with the Workers' Alliance?
Mr. ASHiE. Workers' Alliance succeeded the Relief Workers' Protec- tive Union and to the best of my recollection I was not in it at that time. I think I was deeply involved in State organizational work for the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were telling the committee of the assignment you had in organizational work in the establishment of certain cells or units of the party. Will you continue with that, please?
Mr. ASHE. Well, as downtown-section organizer, I believe it was called subsection for a while, and later section, I had charge of all of the units in the section, which incidentally was, I believe, the largest section in the city, numerically. I believe in 1936 at our section convention we reported somewhere between 300 and 350 members. The reason I recall this is because there was considerable argument among the delegates, who accused me of padding the membership. I was in the unenviable position of not being able to reveal to them that the membership was so large because I had attached to the street section, several professional sections that could not be exposed and couldn't even be identified by name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you instrumental in the formation of these professional sections?
Mr. ASHE. The professional units; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why was it that the membership in the units was to be kept secret 1426 CO1MMIUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. ASIn. Because of the character of their employment. Some were attorneys, some--I believe one was a dentist; two or three of them, I believe, were writers, newspapermen, and so forth, and so on. They could only be recruited on the basis of not being exposed. I know, again. I ran into Dr. Tashjian, who insisted on forcing these people into street units where they would immediately be exposed instead of being exposed here 15 years later.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, these individuals wanted to reap whatever profits or advantage they could from their activities and yet have their names concealed because they knew it was an unlawful enterprise in which they were engaged ?
Mr. ASHE. That's right. They didn't have any guts. They don't today.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any name or designation for those professional units?
Mr. ASHE. It started out very small. After the EPIC convention in 1935, which I covered for the Daily Worker and the Western Worker, I met two or three individuals who were sympathetic. I took them over to the Western Worker office and high-pressured them into the party. Those individuals were Morgan Hull-I now understand he is dead-another one was John Jack Wilson, better known in the Communist Party as John Broman; and a third person whose name escapes me at the moment. But I recruited three that night and in the next 2 or 3 weeks was able to convince the party that a professional unit should be permitted. Over Dr. Tasjian's objection we set up a unit known as Z-100. Z-100 immediately started meeting. I usually met with them because there were no old party members to guide them. It recruited very rapidly and I would say within about 5 months it had become so large we had to split the unit and make another unit called Z-150. The last I knew of these two units the combined membership totaled about 23.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish you would give to the committee the names of the members of these professional units whose membership was to be kept secret.
Mr. ASHE. Jeff Kibre was one. Later onMr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. In giving the names of these in- dividuals I wish you would identify them as fully as you can so that there will be no misunderstanding as to the individual man.
Mr. ASHE. Jeff Kibre, as I recall, was unemployed at that time. I don't know what his background was. He was fairly young, I would say 25 or 30.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what he is doing now ?
Mr. ASHE. Yes. He is with a fishermen's union down at San Pedro,. I believe, a branch of Harry Bridges' union, I understand. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a union organizer at any time, to your knowledge?
Mr. ASHE. He had had no union experience at the time he came into the party; that, I am reasonably certain of.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are unaware of whether or not he had gained such experience later?
Mr. ASHE. I presume he did through the guidance of the Commu- nist Party. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was his wife a member, do you know?  1427 
Mr. ASIIE. His wife was later recruited, I believe, over his vigorous objections. I never did find out why he objected to his wife being in, but I do distinctly recall that.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have already spoken, I believe, of Jack Wilon, also known as Jack Broman.
Mr. ASHE. He was also quite young. I believe he had had some slight amount of newspaper experience. I'm not sure now, but I believe he worked for an organization at that time known as the City News Service. I believe they had headquarters in the old L. A. Times Building.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what his later Communist Party activity consisted of ?
Mr. ASHE. Well, Jack later came into the downtown street unit, did expose himself, showed considerably more courage than a lot of others that he had been with. He-I believe I proposed his name as Western Worker correspondent after I was no longer holding that position. He still went to San Francisco, worked on the Western Worker, I believe, there, and still later on the People's World. At a later date I believe he became an editor of a newspaper put out by the fishermen's union.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well; proceed with the naming of any others.
Mr. ASHE. Spencer Austrian, a Los Angeles attorney; Joe Aidlin, a Los Angeles attorney; Percy Solotoy, a Los Angeles attorney.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say Percy Solotoy?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us any additional information relating to him ?
Mr. ASHE. I know very little about him except I met with him possibly 20 or 30 times in closed party units, Z-100 or Z-150, or both. At that time he was an attorney, a practicing lawyer, here in Los Angeles. I lost track of him after I got out of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know he is employed or in what business he is now engaged?
Mr. ASHE. I understand he is now the head of Brown-Saltman Furniture Co. and also an official in the Southern California Furniture Manufacturers' Association.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether his wife was also a member of this unit ?
Mr. ASHE. To the best of by recollection, she was. I have the distinct impression that she was transferred out of that-I have a distinct impression that she was transferred out of the professional section and into the social workers, or professional unit, I should say, into the social workers unit, which was also attached to downtown.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of Spencer Austrian. Will you spell the last name, please.
Mr. ASHE. A-u-s-t-r-i-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you know anything about his present whereabouts?
Mr. ASH-IE. I understand lie is still in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, if you will continue, please, with the names, if you can recall them.
Mr. ASHE. Well, Joe Aidlin I mentioned without further identifying him. He was a young attorney at that time. He was married to 81595-51-pt. 4---2  a woman by the name of Mary Raden. Mary Raden at that time was office secretary of the Communist Party of Los Angeles County. She was not an official: she was an office secretary. I might add that Joe Aidlin and Mary Raden later moved into my home which I had had at 1124 North Randall Court.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I understand that Mary Raden was a member of this group ?
Mr. ASHE. No; she was not.
Mr. TAVENNER. She was not?
Mr. ASHE. No. She was a member of a street unit in Hollywood at tlat time. She was an exposed party member. 
Mr. TAVENNER. But she was a member of another cell of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well, sir. Were there others whose names you can recall?
Mr. ASHE. Charlie Daggett, Los Angeles newspaperman, was a member of that professional unit.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any additional descriptive information you could give regarding Daggett ?
Mr. ASHE. Oh, not particularly, except that he was rather a vacillating sort of character.
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't mean for you to describe personal traits particularly, unless it is necessary in order to identify the individual.
Mr. ASHE. He was a man at that time, I'd say, about 35 years old, rather inclined to flesh, had many years' experience as a newspaperman. I believe he worked on the Seattle Star as city editor while that paper was still going. I understand he worked on the Los Angeles News around about 1934 or 1935. He was a close friend of Morgan Hull. I would assume that Morgan Hull may have even recruited him. I remember at one time that Charlie Daggett undertook to write for a magazine called New Theatre. New Theatre was a left-wing Communist-controlled publication put out in New York. I believe a man by the name of Herb Klein was its editor. He wrote two or three articles in there in which he blackguarded several personalities in Hollywood, and I know that the magazine was a sell-out in Hollywood and was even selling at a premium. There was a considerable speculation as to who had written the article. I think at one time somebody rather shrewdly guessed that he did, and about that time they concluded that somebody else did. So they never did pin it down to him. But Charlie Daggett has admitted to me several times, with considerable pride, that he wrote these articles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what his present employment is?
Mr. ASHE. No; I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you identify him as to the meetings that he attended. How frequently did you see him at Communist Party meetings?
Mr. ASHE. I would say almost every week for a period of time when we were trying to get these professional units going and trying to work out some formula by which the professionals could participate in Communist work without exposing themselves.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right, sir; now if you will proceed to name others, if you recall them.  
Mr. AsHE. Herb and Minna Klein. 1429 This Herb Klein, by the way, is not to be confused with the editor of the New Theatre magazine. This is Herb and Minna Klein. I believe Herb Klein had been a correspondent for UP over in Germany before Hitler's rise to power. I believe his immediate interest in the Communist Party when he came in was his fear of the threat of fascism. Minna Klein came in, I believe, at the same time. I understand later that he taught out at Los Angeles City College as an instructor, I believe, in journalism. I am not sure on that point.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the spelling of his last name?
Mr. ASHE. K-l-e-i-n. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How many meetings did he and his wife attend, to the best of your recollection ? 
Mr. ASHE. Well they attended, so far as I know, every meeting that I attended. I would say at that time I was attending at least half of these meetings because, as I say, there was no leadership in there that had had any experience in the party, and for that reason I was devoting a considerable amount of my time to them, including meeting with them after their meetings were over, in my home. I might add that most of these meetings were held in my home.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you know in what business Mr. Klein is engaged now, or how he is employed ?
Mr. AsHE. No; I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the name of others, please ?
Mr. ASHE. Lucy Stander, who was at that time the wife of J. Stander, also known as Lionel Stander. He was a character actor, I believe, in Hollywood. He, however, was not in the unit for any great length of time. I recall distinctly that he was brought in and a very short time later was transferred out. I don't know the reason for the transfer. 1 think it was arranged directly between Stander and the county office of the party. However, his wife remained in one of these professional units.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are definite in your statement, however, that Lionel Stander was a member of this group ?
Mr. ASHE. Lionel Stander was definitely a member of this group. He was transferred in, and I handled the transfer. Of that I am positive. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall from what place he was transferred?
Mr. ASHE. I believe New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to a person by the name of Hull a few moments ago. 
Mr. ASHE. That's Morgan Hull.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that Hull or Hall?
Mr. ASHE. Hull, H-u-l-1.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I understand that Morgan Hull was a member of this group ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct. I recruited him. He was one of the first members.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was his employment?
Mr. ASHE. I believe at the time I recruited him he was a reporter for the Los Angeles Times. I think he shortly afterward lost his job. I am not too clear about that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was his wife a member, also, or not? 1430  
Mr. ASHE. Charlotte Hull was also a member of the Communist Party, cominil in at the same time he did. 
Mr. TAV.N XER. Are there others whose names you recall?
Mr. Asiu . I don't believe I mentioned a man by the name of Lou Harris and his wife Vera Harris.
Mr. T.\VENER. What was Lou Harris' position at the time?
Mr. AsiE. He was holding some minor position with Paramount Studios. I believe, if I am not mistaken, he came out here to work in the trade department of the publicity end of the studios, writing publicitv for motion-picture trade magazines and also laying out ads for tlie same trade magazines.
Mr. T.AENNER. Do you know whether the name Lou is an abbrevi- ation of a name or whether that is his full name? 
Mr. ASHE. Well, I wouldn't know as to that. I never knew him as anything else except Lou Harris.
Mr. TAVENNER. L-o-u ?
Mr. ASHE. L-o-u.
Mr. TAVENNER. What other persons?
Mr. ASHE. Did I mention Jane Wilson ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No; you have not.
Mr. ASHE. Jane Wilson is the sister of Jack Wilson. She is better known in the party as Jane Wallace. I helped recruit her. Her brother signed the card, and I countersigned it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke earlier of a dentist, but you did not give a name.
Mr. ASHE. Dr. Albert Hickox.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Albert Hickox, H-i-c-k-o-x ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where was he from? 
Mr. ASHE. Los Angeles. A practicing dentist.
Mr. TAVENNER. In giving us the name of Jane Wilson you did not state what her connection was, what her affiliation was in the Communist Party, other than being a member. Can you tell us anything more about that ?
Mr. ASHE. At the time she was in this unit she was only a rank-andfile member. At a later time I ran into her working in the Interna- tional Workers' office as, I believe, a paid worker in there, some secretarial capacity. 
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that the International Workers' Order?
Mr. ASHE. That is correct. That is when they were located in the Douglas Building.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with a person by the name of Syd Birk?
Mr. ASHE. Yes, very well. Syd, I believe, is the third person that I recruited the night I recruited Morgan Hull and Jack Wilson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how he was later employed? 
Mr. ASHE. I don't recall too much about Syd's early employment. At the outset he certainly wasn't employed by the party. He was unemployed for a considerable length of time. He had employment at one time with the Mayer Advertising Co. on South Main Street. This is a direct-mail advertising company. I lost track of Syd. The last I knew of him he was working for, I believe, the People's World. I had dinner with him one night m about 1946, and he was so obtuse that I was unable to convey to him my sentiments, and we parted  1431 friends. The next time I saw him on the street he wouldn't speak to me, or didn't speak to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does Syd Birk spell his name S-y-d ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. B-u-r-k-e ? 
Mr. ASHE. B-i-r-k is a party name. His real name is Berkowitz.
Mr. TAVENNER. How does he spell his last name ? 
Mr. AsHE. B-e-r-k-o-w-i-t-z. I would like to say, for his father, that his father has no sympathy whatsoever for Syd's politics.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was the last time that you saw Charles Daggett?
Mr. ASHE. I saw Charley Daggett in about 1939 up in San Francisco. A rather amusing incident impressed it on me. Charley had just rented an apartment up there that was unfurnished, and he had undertaken to make some furniture to get out of buying any. I recall distinctly that he had a chair that he was very proud of and was showing me the construction of it. It was simply four upright legs and a piece to go across for the seat, and I remember that I sat down on it and the thing collapsed. It developed that all he had done was to drive one nail through each leg of the chair, and I know he was very much distressed that his craftsmanship had been exposed. I really think he ought to get himself a job as an apprentice with Percy Solotoy.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he at that time or any other time deliver to you any document or book relating to communism?
Mr. ASHE. Yes. He gave me a book, the 1938 Report of the Un- American Activities Committee, which I have in my possession now with his name on it. I understand Mr. Daggett doesn't remember me, but I have a book I borrowed from him in his home, and I have it to this day.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have it with you.
Mr. ASHE. I do not, unfortunately. It was a book that he, in turn, received from Congressman Havenner, of San Francisco.
Mr. TAVENNER. Containing reports of this committee ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct, for the year 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occasion for his giving you a report prepared by this committee?
Mr. ASHE. Oh, he was amused at some of the testimony and thought it might be enlightening to me. It was, very, because at that time I was out of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, during the period of time that you were in the party, you must, of course, have become well acquainted with other functionaries in the Communist Party.
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish you would give us the names of the func- tionaries in southern California who were active in the work of the party.
Mr. ASHE. When I came into the party, the bureau was composed of Elmer Hanoff, organizer-this is the county; Elmer Hanoff, organizer; Lawrence Ross, organization secretary, and Jimmy Allen. I never did figure out what Jimmy Allen's function was. A short time later Hanoff was removed as organizer. Lawrence Ross became acting organizer, and Louise Todd came down at about that time and she became organizer. There was a considerable shuffle there. It was quite a scandal in the party, which they hushed up. Then Ross went to 1432 INDUSTRY San Francisco as editor of the Western Worker. John Leech became organization secretary under Louise Todd until she went to Tehachapi some time in 1935. That is the State women's-yes, prison for women. Then Leech became organizer, and a person by the name of James Thorm, whose real name 1 believe is Tourney, was made organizational secretary. There were two other people around about that time. One was Eva Shafran whom, I believe, was educational director, and Betty Gannett was somewhere in the picture. I know she was on the county bureau. She exerted a very great deal of influence. At the end of 1936, Leech, I believe, was removed. There was another complete reshuffle, and Paul Cline was brought out, I believe, from the East to be organizer. There was a lapse of several months there when there were acting functionaries holding down the job.
Mr. TAVENNER. How does Paul Cline spell his last name?
Mr. ASHE. C-l-i-n-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the person, Elmer HarnoffMr. ASHE. Hanoff.
Mr. TAVENNER. -Hanoff to whom you referred also known by the name of Pop Hanoff ?
Mr. ASHE. Pop Hanoff, that's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, are there any other functionaries of the party whose names you can now recall?
Mr. ASHE. In the county ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. ASHE. County leadership. Not offhand, no.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Tom Patterson?
Mr. ASHE. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was his affiliation with the party ?
Mr. ASHE. At one time he was Western Worker correspondent. I believe for a time he was organizer in the Firestone subsection of the Communist Party. At a later date he went up to San Francisco, worked on the Western Worker and eventually, I believe, became some kind of a functionary in the East Bay section of the Communist Party, which includes Oakland and Berkeley.
Mr. TAVENNER. Miriam Bonner?
Mr. ASHE. Miriam Bonner was codirector of the Worker's School in Los Angeles during the period of 1934, 1935, 1936 with Lillian Jones.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Pat Callahan.
Mr. ASHE. Pat Callahan was an unemployed leader here about 1935-36.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the party ?
Mr. ASHE. Definitely; member of the downtown section with his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. Clyde Champion.
Mr. ASHE. Clyde Champion was section organizer for the party in Belvedere subsection, 1935, 1936.
Mr. TAVENNER. James Tracy.
Mr. ASHE. James Tracy was in charge of railroad work. That is, penetration into the railroad unions and brotherhoods working out of San Francisco. He was a delegate to the national convention of the Communist Party in 1934.
Mr. WALTER. What was that name? 
Mr. TAVENNER. James I-n-g-h-a-m? Tracy, T-r-a-c-y. William Ingham,  1433 
Mr. ASHE. William Ingham functioned out in the San Fernando Valley section of the Communist Party, and for a long time was a member, and, for some time, chairman of the disciplinary committee of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Loretta Adam?
Mr. ASHE. Mrs. Loretta Adams is one of the leaders of the Com- munist Party in Long Beach, about 1934, 1935, and about 1936 she transferred to Bakersfield where she was the Bakersfield-the Kern County section organizer. (At this time Representative Donald L. Jackson entered the room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state again the last name of that in- dividual ? How do you spell the last name I
Mr. ASHE. Loretta Adams, A-d-a-m-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. S. Adams. E. 0. Cope, C-o-p-e?
Mr. ASHE. I know a man by the name of Cope. I am not sure of his initials. He was active in the milk strike in 1932 and 1933 was a Communist Party member. To my certain knowledge in 1934, when I had to go out to San Fernando Valley representing the county in an effort to straighten him out on some disruptive tactics that he was indulging in in the party out there. I didn't straighten him outMr. TAVENNER. YOU are uncertain about his initials. Can you give us any further descriptive information which would definitely identify the individual?
Mr. ASHE. Short, stocky man, short tempered; unpredictable. believe he now works as a bartender. I 
Mr. TAVENNER. Julia Walsh ? 
Mr. ASHE. Julia Walsh, who was a member of the downtown section of the Communist Party and also was a functionary in the International Labor Defense.
Mr. TAVENNER. Cliff Lechrome, L-e-c-h-r-o-m-e?
Mr. ASHE. Cliff Lechrome was a member of one of the units of the Hollywood Street subsection. I don't recall much else about him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Charles McClaughlan, M-c-C-l-a-u-g-h-l-a-n ?
Mr. ASHE. Charlie McClaughlan was Communist Party organizer for Orange County. This was a separate section, but it was under the guidance of the Los Angeles County section because of weakness of leadership in Orange County.
Mr. TAVENNER. M. E. Freeman?
Mr. AsHE. M. E. Freeman was a Communist Party member down town, I believe; also active in the old Relief Workers' Protective Union.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tom Miller?
Mr. ASHE. Tom Miller, to the best of my understanding, is a cousin of Emil Freed. Tom Miller was for a short period of time a mass organization functionary and was a Communist Party member. He held membership in a street unit in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Emil Freed, to whom you just referred- 
Mr. ASHE. Emil Freed wasMr. TAVENNER. The spelling is E-m-i-1 F-r-e-e-d.
Mr. ASHE. Emil Freed has, so far back as I know, been a function- ary of one kind or another of the party. I believe at one time he was Hollywood subsection organizer. I distinctly recall him being in county organizational meetings. I recall one instance where he kept asking something to be explained over and over again on the basis 1434  that he was afraid some of the comrades didn't understand it, and I finally got disgusted and told him to speak for himself, and let's get on with the agenda. He has held any number of functionary jobs, but I don't recall at this time what they are. I remember distinctly at a free-speech meeting in Hollywood in 1934 where he was keenly disappointed because the police wouldn't arrest him, and he pushed his way over to a squad car and they finally obliged him. This is the first time he made a martyr of himself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Melvyn Letzman, L-e-t-z-m-a-n ? 
Mr. ASHE. Letzman was a member of the Communist Party in Hollywood and later transferred to San Pedro and was an assistant to whoever was then the section organizer down there. I am not sure just who that was.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you one or two other questions about your Communist Party. What was your connection with the Motion Picture Artists' Committee ? 
Mr. ASHE. In about 1937 the Motion Picture Artists' Committee conceived the idea of touring the country in their name with a motionpicture short, about a 30-minute sound film, called Heart of Spain. There was no one in Hollywood that they could use, so they apparently appealed to the downtown section of the Communist Party-that is, the county [branch] of the Communist Party to supply a suitable manager and speaker for this tour. Paul Cline recommended me, and after considerable consultation with John Howard Lawson, they fin- ally decided that it would be all right for me to go representing the committee, even though I was fairly widely known as a Communist Party member. They bought a couple of old broken-down laundry trucks which they painted up to look like ambulances, and I and several other people made the tour of the country, ending in New York City about the 14th of December 1937. The purpose of the trip, of course, was to raise money for-or the ostensible purpose was to raise money for the North American Committee To Aid Spanish Democracy. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, that was another device to raise money for the Loyalist Spain ? 
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Which was the Communist Party line and project at that particular time ? 
Mr. ASHE. That's right. I wouldn't want to testify as to how much of the money ever got to Spain.
Mr. T.AENNER. Well, do you have any direct information of your own as to the misuse of any of that money ?
Mr. ASHE. I have just got a very strong feeling that it didn't all get there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I would like at this point to go back in your testimony to the organizational work done by Stanley Lawrence and later by V. J. Jerome in the motion picture industry, generally.
Mr. ASHE. Well, I am not too familiar with that aspect of the Communist Party activity except insofar as I had some knowledge of it as a result of reports made in the county executive committee meeting in informal discussions with various functionaries of the party, including discussions with Stanley Lawrence over coffee sometimes. I do know that they raised a considerable sum of money out there during that period-I believe considerably more than they anticipated at the outset. In other words, I don't think they quite knew the  1435 gold mine they were opening up when they did set up these study groups. I know on one occasion Stanley-the election campaign committee, I should say, of which I was the head-needed some quick money to finance the preliminary arrangements for Earl Browder to speak at a big stadium on the East Side. We needed this money to lay on the line right now. Stanley Lawrence raised, within a matter of a few hours, a thousand dollars, brought it down in cash, and gave. it to me. We later paid this back. I remember another occasion when I had to go out to Hollywood with Earl Browder to make a movie short-I believe it was a talkie-which was to be used for campaign purposes. It never was used, but I believe it was made. The last thing before I left the downtown office with Browder was to receive from Stanley Lawrence several hundred dollars to turn over to Tania Tuttle, who had charge of making this film, and which I did turn over to her.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, who was her husband?
Mr. ASHE. Frank Tuttle.
Mr. TAVENNER. Frank Tuttle, the director ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. From your observation and your knowledge as a functionary of the Communist Party, what would you say was the principal objective of the Communist Party, and how did it go about the accomplishment of it in Hollywood ?
Mr. ASHE. In Hollywood? Well, I would say that the purpose of the Communist Party in Hollywood was fourfold: First, to surround the party with as many name personalities as possible, both as party members and as sympathizers and dupes and dopes, so that they could exploit these people's names; and they did. Second, to recruit members into the Communist Party. Third, to raise money, which, as I said before, I don't think they realized at the outset the gold mine that they had there, but which they quickly exploited to the fullestand, in fact., there are five points. Fourth, they wanted to control, as far as possible, the content of the films made in Hollywood. I have read the testimony of some of the people who have testified before this committee, in which they insist that it is virtually impossible to control the content. These are friendly witnesses. I have to find myself in complete disagreement with them because I know of any number of occasions when they did influence the content of these films. I didn't come prepared to give chapter and verse. I could if I had enough time to do some research. I have seen many, many films out of Hollywood in which some part of the Communist. line was injected by deliberate intent. It couldn't have been otherwise. At the same time, the Communist Party wanted to control the content of the film in the sense that there would be nothing of an antiCommunist nature in there that would discredit them, and I understand that they were quite effective at that at one time. I know that at one time there were picket lines here in the city of Los Angeles picketing anti-Communist films, and I am quite certain that we were advised of the anti-Communist content of these films by the Communists in Hollywood who would have the first knowledge of any anti-Communist content. So I am afraid that these other witnesses who have said that it is impossible to influence the content of the films were not sufficiently familiar with all of the ramifications of the Communist movement 1436 and of all of their front organizations and of all of their immediate aims to be competent to recognize any such Communist content when they saw it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, what instances can you point out to the committee in which the Communists succeeded in influencing the content of the film? -Mr. ASHE. As I said I didn't come prepared on this point. I would like to point out, however, that Blockade was written by Clifford Odets, I believe; and John Howard Lawson took the credit. Blockade was certainly a Communist film from start to finish. It used the situation in Spain, it is true, as the focal point for the film; but, if I had the time and had resources, I think I could trace Blockade right back to its original source; namely, one of the leading propagandists for the Soviet Union who had used the same film years and years and years before-used the same theme. The same theme was used at. still a later date by a German producer who was a Communist, and in 1938, Mr. Lawson and Clifford Odets helped themselves to it arain-gave it a different name, a little different treatment. The theme was exactly the same.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, do you think the success in being able to impart the Communist line into the film was the result of carelessness or any deliberate attempt on the part of the producers to permit such a thingMr. ASHE. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or was it a thing that you think was accomplished through stealth and deceit, or how do you explain it ?
Mr. ASHE. I explain -iton the basis that it was a deliberate, calculated, carefully planned maneuver on the part of the Communists who were in a position to do it and also upon the lack of vigilance on the part of non-Communists and anti-Communists that have never taken the time to find out what communism is and who are allergic to finding out to this day.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is there any other instance that you can point out to the committee?
Mr. ASHE. Not offhand.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, we were engaged in discussion of the principal objectives of the Communist Party in the organization of the party in Hollywood. Now, you have named, I believe-this is the fourth
Mr. ASHE. The fourth point.
Mr. TAVENNER. Point. 
Mr. ASHE. The fifth point is the objective of the Communist Party to penetrate the craft unions in Hollywood and to control them. This ties in, of course, very nicely with all of their other objectives in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was done by the Communist Party to organize or to capture the craft unions in Hollywood ?
Mr. ASHE. Well, of course, a considerable part of that took place after I was either inactive or actually out of the Communist Party. HoweverM1r. TAVENNER. Yes. I mean for you to testify only regarding your own observations and the knowledge acquired by you while you were a functionary of the party.  1437 
Mr. ASHE. In 1933, during a period when the Communist Party was still a rather sectarian organization with red or mechanical approaches to problems, during a period when they still had what was known as the TUUL, the Trade Union Unit League, during a period when they had dual unions in which small splinter unions of Communists were organized in the same industries where regular unions were functioning, during this period of time the Communist Party in Hollywood, with the encouragement of the downtown section of the Communist Party, undertook to organize an industrial union along the lines of their previous activity. The purpose of this was to organize the crafts and the talent in one big union, which would be controlled by the Communist Party and which would result in the liquidation or the crushing of the craft unions. Considerable progress was made in this. I understand at one time they had several hundred members signed up. It was all done secretly. There were a minimum of meetings held, and then suddenly the word came down the line to the left-wingers, the Communists, that a new line had to be taken.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say that several hundred had been signed up. Did you represent the various crafts? Were they taken from the various crafts ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct. They were organized along industrial lines. That is, industry which had lines without respect to their craft or their talent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, these individuals were not necessarily mem- bers of the Communist PartyMr. ASHE. Definitely not.
Mr. TAVENNER. -nor necessarily sympathetic to the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. Definitely not. They were sold a bill of goods on the basis of an industrial union which would be more effective than the unions had been to that time in representing talent and the craft workers.
Mr. TAVENNER. But do I understand from your testimony that the leadership in the Communist Party was active in the promotion of this ideaMr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER.-and was supporting it? 
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, then, what occurred in the Communist Party line ? You were about to tell us that when I interrupted you. 
Mr. ASHE. Well, at that time I was not a Communist Party member. I was in the Commonwealth House. I lived there, had my residence there. The Communists that met out there were not too sure of just what I was at that time, but they did indicate what was going on in respect to this industrial union. There is one man by the name of Helmar Bergman who has been around for many, many years. He was a prime mover in it. Eddie O'Toole was another.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name Helmar ?
Mr. ASHE. H-e-l-m-a-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. B-e-r-g-m-a-n ? 
Mr. ASHE. -m-a-n. Eddie O'Toole.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a minute. Eddie O'Toole. 1438  
Mr. ASHE. That's correct, and one other person whose name escapes me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were they members of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. I don't know what their status was at that time, but I do know that they were very disgusted when the word came down that the industrial union had to be junked, that it was party orders, and they acceded to party.orders. Another was a man by the name of Wolf, and I understand that he quit the party over it because he had put many, many months of work and made a great many sacrifices to bring this thing about, and just as it was beginning to flower and show some results the plug was pulled.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ou say the order came down from above?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Explain that.
Mr. ASHE. Came from Elmer Hanoff. 
Mr. TAVENNER. His position at that time was what ?
Mr. ASHE. County organizer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. As the result of that, the movement was abandoned to form-at least temporarily abandoned to form theMr. ASHE. That's correct, in favor of going into the already established unions. This had become the new line of the Communist Party, to infiltrate these unions and, where possible, to take them over, regardless of how reactionary they were in the eyes of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then came into play the organizational ability of the Communist Party to infiltrate and take over those variousMr. ASHE. That's correct. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Organizations within the movie industry?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. WOOD. The witness has been on the stand now for more than an hour and a half. I think we should take about a 10-minute break at this point. The committee will stand in recess for 10 minutes. (Whereupon, at the hour of 11:30 a. m. a recess was taken for 10 minutes.)
Mr. WooD. Let's have order. The people in the audience will please refrain from audible conversation.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ashe.
Mr. WOOD. Let the witness resume.
Mr. Counsel, are you ready to proceed
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. We must have order, ladies and gentlemen. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ashe, we were discussing the course of conduct that the Communist Party took in its efforts to establish an over-all labor organization and then the change in the Communist Party line which resulted, I believe, as you said, in Mr. Wolf resigning from the Communist Party as a result of it, having done a great deal of work to accomplish the first objective of the party.
Mr. ASHE. That's correct, to the best of my recollection. 
Mr. TAVENNER. After that plan changed, or after the Communist Party line changed, what became the objective of the Communist Party with regard to its efforts to obtain control and influence with  1439 the organizations of the union organizations within the movie industry ?
Mr. ASHE. Well, as I say, this was part of an over-all plan of the Communist Party to infiltrate all of the orthodox A. F. or L. or independent unions, wherever they might be. About this time, during a period of mass unemployment, a very large number of dues-paying Communist Party members were themselves unemployed. I distinctly remember some word about 1934 or 1935, when I was section organizer, directives came down to us to go to any length to get Communist Party members into labor unions, even to the extent of helping them or actually paying their initiation fees and dues in unions. In other words, we were not going to let anything stand in the way of infiltration, least of all a few dollars initiation dues. I recall that period that the downtown section of the party raised, through a series of benefit parties, and by other means, several hundred dollars and we did place a considerable number of downtown members of the Communist Party in A. F. of L. trade unions. One of them later became the business agent of, I believe, the waiters' union. I understand during the war that he was a commissioned officer in the United States Army. I can't at the moment recall his name. We had considerable success in penetrating the painters' union locals due in part to the fact that we already had some forces in there. In one local on the east side, I believe it was a paperhangers' local, and also in a painters' local on the east side, that would be Boyle Heights. I recallMr. TAVENNER. What was that name? 
Mr. ASHE. Boyle Heights.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it ? 
Mr. ASHE. B-o-y-l-e H-e-i-g-h-t-s. This is a section, or one of the old sections, of Los Angeles and a section in which the Communist Party has always been strong, even in the old days of its sectarianism. I recall distinctly that one Communist Party member even went so far as to get a charter for a new local and did set up a new local of the painters' union, which automatically put him on the painters' district council. The name of this person is Don Healy, formerly the husband of Dorothy Healy.
Mr. TAVENNER. The person to whom you referred as Dorothy Healy is now under indictment, I believe. 
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the designation of the union to which you referred?
Mr. ASHE. The local?
Mr. TAVENNER. The new local of the painters' union?
Mr. ASHE. I do not recall. I do remember that for a period of time-it was a small local. For a period of time it met out in the general vicinity of Echo Park. That is not too far from the downtown area. I believe at one time there was talk of my going into the local, but I wasn't able to find any time to participate in the work and it was finally decided that I better stay out of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the over-all plans of the Communist Party, what was the ultimate objective in being able to control these various unions within the industry through infiltration ? 1440 
Mr. ASHE. Let me understand your question. Do you mean the ultimate aim of the Communist Party?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. In its effort to infiltrate the various unions within the moving-picture industry. What was it that they sought to accomplish by adopting that policy in that project? 
Mr. ASHE. I think I covered that before a recess., They had a five-point program, as I think I outlined. If you are talking about the ultimate aim of the Communist Party as an international organization, that is something else again. I will be glad to go into that.
Mr. TAVENNER. I was not intending to go that far. It was only as to what they were endeavoring to accomplish in Hollywood by this type of organization of the unions.
Mr. ASHE. They were undertaking, they were hopeful of con- trolling the motion-picture industry through organizational channels of whatever kind they could lay their hands on.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of your activity in the party did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Ralph Smith?
Mr. ASHE. I did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the party ? 
Mr. ASHE. He was not. He was a member of the Young Commu- nist League. A very bright boy in Hollywood, very promising boy from the standpoint of the Communist Party. For a short time he was a functionary in the YCL in Hollywood. A short time later Ralph Smith was taken out of practically all YCL work and was assigned as a liaison man between the downtown section of the Communist Party and what I later realized was the studio section of the Communist Party. I have no detailed knowledge of his functions but it is not too difficult to understand what it was, namely, to carry directives, to keep a connection existing between the downtown leadership and the then young, inexperienced group which was becoming the studio section. I might say that Ralph Smith, I interviewed him about 3 years ago in his home up north, and made a special trip to see him, and he professes to be out of the Communist Party today but he refuses to bear arms in defense of the United States. I can only draw one conclusion from that. I know that in an effort to locate him up north-I can give you his address if you wait it-a very great deal of effort went into tracing him, and it developed, I think the agency that did trace him will agree with me in saying that there is every reason to believe that Ralph Smith was trying to hide himself, that he had cut all connections with his friends and acquaintances in Los Angeles and had left no forwarding address even. It was only by subterfuge that his present location was had.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will ask you, after you leave the stand, if you will give your views of the address to an investigator of the committee.
Mr. ASHE. I will. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Rena Vale ?
Mr. ASHE. I didn't know Rena Vale very well.
Mr. TAVENNER. V-a-l-e.
Mr. ASHE. I knew her, but I didn't know her very well. I understand she was in the party. I don't think I am doing any harm to state it in that way. I had no personal knowledge of it but she her-  INDUSTRY 1441 self has so stated on the witness stand. She was active in, I believe, the writers' project in Los Angeles, the WPA writers' project, which at that time was largely, if not completely, dominated by the Communist Party. I believe she held some minor function in her unit.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have testified that you left the party in 1939. 
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the severence of your connection with the party occur suddenly or was it a type of action that took some time to develop?
Mr. AsHE. No, it was not. I think it might be interesting to some of the Communists here, who are also looking for an escape hatch, to find one way of getting out of the party and severing their connections. I was considered, in 1936, one of the leading members of the Communist Party. In 1936 I was already becoming very, very badly disillusioned with it. I felt as early as the end of 1936 that the Communist Party was a betrayor of the working class, and I think so today. In the fall of 1936 I asked to be relieved of all responsibility. I was quite ill and I was being badly exploited by the party, working about 16 to 18 hours a day. They refused to relieve me but they did promise that by the time the election campaign was over, if I could hang on until then, that they would in fact allow me to drop out of all full-time activity, give me a chance to rest. Late that fall I was more disillusioned than ever. I asked to resign. Some of the leading members of the Communist Party told me that I would not be permitted to resign and they made it very explicit and very clear to me. From that time on I made up my mind that I was going to bide my time and I was going to find a way to get out of the party. I was going to get out on my own power, and I did. In 1936, when I went on the road for the Motion Picture Artists' Committee, I thought this was my opportunity. However, I didn't reckon with the leadership of the Communist Party. The minute I came back from this trip I was again surrounded by the leadership. I supposed they sensed my defection and I was made a branch organizer of the forty-fourth assembly district branch. This was not a full-time position. It was a branch that had at that time about 80 members. I functioned here until February of 1939 when the North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy, later known as the Spanish Refugee Committee-in fact, it was known as that in 1938 and 1939, asked me to become the west coast organizer for it and to re- organize and to reactivate the local offices they had throughout the west coast, which had fallen on evil days. The interest in Spain, and particularly in the plight of the refugees, was on the wane. I still honestly believed that some help could be given to these people. I realize now that I was victimized along with those who donated their funds, but I didn't know it at the time. I did see in this an oppor- tunity to leave the party. I took to the road in a car, February 14, 1939, and from that day to this I have not paid a dime to the Communist Party and never intend to. I have never been in a Communist Party meeting since February 14, 1939, nor have I taken direction or dictation from any Communist Party functionary or leader. 1442 However, I will say this, that when I broke my organizational ties with the party, I did not break all of my idealogical ties, and this is a problem that every Communist has to go through before he can get out of the party. I recommend to the Communists today that are here and that are looking for a way out, and I am sure some of them are, I would point out to them today that their comrades can't watch them all the time; that you can go to the public library and you can get the other side of the story-I did. You can read Freda Utley's moving book, The Dream That Was Ours, that showed how the Communist Party betrayed her and how they betrayed the working class. You can read that in the private of your room. You can read Eugene Lyons' numerous books exposing communism. If there ever was a man that can expose communism it is Eugene Lyons, because he at one time had a dream. He, too, was an idealist. He went to Moscow, he was a correspondent there for many, many years, and rapidly he was disillusioned at the brutality that he saw, at the lies that he listened to. As a result he has written books that are documented so that nobody but an ignoramus can deny that they are facts. This is the way I got out of the Communist Party. I had to make an organizational break and then I had to make an idealogical break. The organizational break had to come first and then I had to have time to once more think freely. You don't think in the Communist Party, you surrender your right to think. You put your right to think in hock to Stalin, and you pay usurious interest all the time your right to think is in hock. I think it is the surest kind of hypocrisy that these Communists picketing out here today talk about this committee denying them the right to think. They haven't got any right to think, they gave it to Stalin. What are they talking about? This is sheer nonsense. They can't make a move, they can't open their mouths until they get the party line. The party line is one thing today and the party line is another thing tomorrow. They have enslaved themselves, no committee has enslaved them. This Nation has not enslaved them or denied them their freedom. They sold their freedom years ago when they signed that little application card. The only way they can get it back is to terminate their association with a subversive and anti-American organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. You made your break before Korea, didn't you?
Mr. ASHE. I did. I made my break before the Hitler-Stalin pact. However, I was still with the Spanish Refugee Committee and I listened to some of the Communists, trying to reconcile it. It was very amusing.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your view of the duty of a member of the Communist Party since Korea ?
Mr. ASHE. The duty of a Communist Party member is not only since Korea, but at all times and under all conditions to act as a disciplined Communist Party member. I don't think I need to tell the comrades in the room that, they know it. And that discipline includes looking out first, last, and always for the interest of the Soviet Union to the exclusion of any conflicting interests of their own country. They don't hesitate to do it but they like to do it in the dark.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of your vast experience as a function- ary in the Communist Party, what was the practice with reference to the  1443 (Because of an exploding flash bulb there was a slight interruption in the proceeding.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I was about to ask you, Mr. Ashe, that during the course of your vast experience as a functionary in the Communist Party, what was taught the membership with regard to the use of force and violenceMr. ASHE. I will be glad to explain it.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the accomplishment of the ultimate purposes of the party ?
Mr. ASHE. The Communist Party, it must be clear, on the occasion when I attended this one meeting at a beginners' class, they had a teacher there who himself was not too clear upon the question of force and violence. It was rather amusing to me because I was going there to learn. So when this question came up he appealed to me to explain to the comrades, and 1 will try to explain to you as best I can. As I recall it, it is 15 years ago now, the explanation was that the Communist Party does not believe in the use of force and violence. The Communist Party, vanguard of the working class, also the rear guard-the Communist Party, the vanguard of the working class, will lead the workers to the point where the capitalist class in dismaycapitalist class, of course, means this country, it doesn't mean a class, this is just Communist double talk-the capitalist class in its effort to preserve itself will use force and violence to crush the movement of the working class. At this point we Communists will use force and violence to insure that our gains are not lost. This is the way they explain force and violence, but the leadership knows better. This is just for public consumption. And any Communist in this room that doesn't know that the Communist Party believes in the use of force and violence to overthrow our Government better get out of the party awfully fast, because that is exactly what the Communist Party stands for and always has stood for. You can go back to your Communist Party classics and you can get chapter and verse on it in a dozen different places. The Communist Party has never repudiated those classics. They surreptitiously use them yet for their guidance, and for the coun- sel that it gives the Communist Party leadership. The Communist Party takes the position that they cannot come to power except that they use force and violence to crush the Government that stands in its way. They uproot the courts, they throw out the Constitution, including the first and fifth amendment behind which the Communists are now hiding. They infiltrate and take over the Army and the Navy with new leaders and throw out the old. They root out every last semblance of any leadership that could conceivably be considered as having any remnants or any feelings of sympathy for so-called bourgeois democracy. They feel they have to have a violent revolution in order to purge the country of the socalled unreliable elements, which actually are the loyal elements who are committed to defending our present system of government. This is the Communist Party position on force and violence and they can't deny it. It's in the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ashe, do you have anything further you desire to say with regard to the circumstances under which you severed your connections with the Communist Party, or have you explained that as fully as you desire? 81595-51-pt. 4--3 1444 
Mr. ASHE. Well, I would like to say that I severed my connection voluntarily. I was not expelled. I was presumably acceptable as a Communist Party member right up to the last, in fact there was considerable ignorance as to what my status was. As late as 1943 or 1944 some of the rank and file comrades who had known me downtown took it for granted that I was still a party member. I very quickly disabused them of that. I would like to say that I got out because of a developing disillusionment over a period of years. The party has no least semblance of democracy, despite its protestations. 'It is'a monolithic party from top to bottom; a single block of stone. The party is hard and unyielding and unconscionable. The party members know it. They subscribe to the attitude that the end justifies the means. From almost the outset I was in some position of leadership and responsibility and, unlike many, many people who have been only rank and file members or who have been isolated in limitative activity, they, unlike myself, have not had an opportunity to get their eyes open and see what is going on in the leadership, and to see the naked brutality of the leadership. I suppose some of them never see this. Even during the period when I was most zealous in the party, I never lost my belief in the essential dignity of the individual, and this presented one of the difficulties that I was always confronted with in the party, whether it was a section organizer or as a member of 'the disciplinary committee, to see the sheer brutality, the lack of human understanding by one comrade to another. I have seen them almost like wolves tearing individuals down who,. the day before, they had called friends. You surrender all independent thought, all independent action to those higher in the chain of command. Discipline is more important in the party than being right. I mean that literally. You can make mistakes; they will forgive you, but if you are right and your correct position is not recognized yet as a correct position, then you are doing violence to the discipline of the party. If, later, the position is corrected and you are proven to be correct, they still mistrust you because you have broken discipline. This is more important than being correct. I imagine a good many Communists can testify to this fact. Some of the Communists had a positive genuis for self-criticism to. a point of indecency. They actually reveled in seeking out leaders and confessing to these leaders their errors and their sins of omission and commission. I, for a long time, thought that this would be a good subject for psychiatrists. The party is entirely humorless-and I think this is a significant thing-completely devoid of any remnant. of a sense of humor. I remember one time going to a county convention, and we met on a street corner, the delegates, and we were to be picked up. So we stood on the corner of Hollywood-no, Santa Monica Boulevard and Vine Street. I don't know of any more conspicuous place we could have picked, and we waited and we waited and wewaited for about 2 or 3 hours, and finally we were picked up. We got into a car and went to the convention. On the way to the convention I observed to some of the other comrades that I suppose that nobody knew where the convention was except Red Hines, which was literally true. Red Hines did know where it was. I was later  criticized for this. No sense of humor. It is astounding. about all I have to say.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ashe- 1445 That is 
Mr. AsmE. I would like to say one thing. During this period when I was working my way out of the party after I learned beyond any shadow of a doubt that there were huge concentration camps in the interior of the Soviet Union, in which workers were imprisoned because they had been suspected of thinking, I couldn't help.but wonder what one of these brooding workers would think behind these stockades as he contemplated, the Marxist admonition: You will have nothing to lose but your chains Workers of the world, unite. and a world to gain. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That is a quotation, that is from the Manifesto ?
Mr. ASHE. That is correct. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ashe, I had planned to ask you some other general questions, but I believe members of the committee will likely cover themMr. ASHE. All right.
Mr. TAVENNER. So rather than have the repetition, I believe that I will close my examination. That is all, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WooD. At the outset, I requested the members of the committee to refrain from interposing questions during the conduct of the examination by counsel and assured them that I would give each an opportunity in turn to ask such pertinent questions as they desire, but since the hour of lunch is approaching, I think at this time I will withhold the examination by the individual members until we return from lunch, and the committee will now take a recess until half past 1 o'clock. (Whereupon, at the hour of 12:25 p. m., an adjournment was taken in the above proceedings until the hour of 1: 30 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (Whereupon at the hour of 1:30 p. m. of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, the same members being present.) TESTIMONY OF HAROLD J. ASHE-Resumed
Mr. TAVENNER. I think not, if it please Your Honor.
Mr. WooD. I yield to the members of the committee. of Pennsylvania.
Mr. WALTER. 
Mr. Walter 
Mr. Ashe, during the course of your testimony you mentioned the names of various people who are connected with the labor movement as having been members of the Communist Party, and among them was Joseph Tracy, Railroad Brotherhood, the head of the fisherman's union, the business agent for the waiters' union, and Don Healy of the painters' union. Do you know whether or not those individuals are still actively engaged in union activities ?
Mr. ASHE. I would have no way of knowing about some of them. In the case of the first person you mentioned, the correct name is Jim Tracy. 1446 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WALTER. Jim Tracy; yes.
Mr. ASITE. I don't know whether at that time he was a member of any union or whether he was merely assigned by the party to infil- trate into the railroad brotherhoods by making contact with rank-andfile railroad workers. I have no knowledge as to whether he was actually a railroad worker himself or not. In the case of Jeff Kibre, 1 have seen his name periodically in local newspapers in connection with fishermen's union activity. 
Mr. WALTER. Do you know whether or not the rank and file of these several unions are aware of the fact that their leaders are members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ASHE. In the case of the fishermen's union, I think they would be singularly stupid if they didn't know. 
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Ashe, in your judgment, should the Congress enact a law making membership in the Communist Party illegal 
Mr. ASHE. I didn't get the question, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Do you believe that the Congress of the United States should enact legislation making it illegal to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ASHE. I certainly do.
Mr. WALTER. Have you given very much thought to this question?
Mr. AsHE. I have given a very great deal of thought to it because, having been a Communist, I think I have a little bit different understanding of the Communist Party and the Communist conspiracy than many non-Communists, anti-Communists who have felt that the Communist Party should not be outlawed. I think that two immediate courses of action should be taken against the Communist Party. First, I think that they should be denied the use of the mails. I think there is something fundamentally wrong in this country, when we are fighting an enemy in Korea, which enemy has allies in our own midst and which party, the Communist Party, is virtually, in effect, being subsidized by the United States Government in the form of secondclass mailing privileges. I think this is an outrage. I know that if the second-class mailing privileges were taken away from the Communist Party, it would strike a body blow from which it would be almost impossible for it to recover. The rank and file Communist Party members, and I have known them for years-I know their mental capacity-would be unable to follow the Communist Party line if it were not disseminated to them in newspapers that are going freely through the mails to them. I think that there is a funda- mental contradiction here in this country when, on one hand, we consider the Communists a subversive organization, yet on the other hand we permit them not only the use of the mails but give them special mailing privileges, mind you, second-class mailing privileges, which amount to permitting their subversive literature to go through the mails at practically no cost to them. It is a real subsidy to them, and that is what our United States Government is doing, I regret to say. In the second place, I think that the Communist Party should be outlawed on the basis-and I would like to consult my notes here, because I would to make this very clear-on the basis that the Communist Party in fact is a subversive, conspiratorial-is a conspiratorial agent of a foreign government. I think we should end once and for all that it is a legitimate American political party with legiti-  1447 mate American political aims advanced only in the arena of political action. I think the time for talk is past. Outlawing the party will smash it as an effective tool of the Soviet Union, which it is. If Americans generally do not know, the Communists do know that outlawing the party will irreparably cripple it. It will be so preoccupied with its own internal security measures it will have little time for anything else, including subversive activity. All the past history of the Communist Party in its periods of illegality point to this conclusion, both in this country and in Europe. Recruiting of new members will be almost impossible. All members will die, and the party will wither on the vine. Its sources of money will dry up and the lunatic fringe will disappear. I think there is something fantastic, if not worse, in the fact that thousands of our men have died and are dying in Korea in a war against an international Communist enemy, yet we mealy-mouth about our own domestic branch of that enemy. Is it any wonder that many Americans, honest Americans, are confused ? It has been argued that outlawing the party would drive it underground. I agree-6 feet underground, and without benefit of clergy, except, perhaps, a few who have betrayed their Christian teachings and are leading their trusting flocks out of the promised land. It has been suggested that outlawing the party will make martyrs of Communists. According to the logic of this argument-and I think it has been advanced before this committee-the logic of this group is that we should wipe off.the statute books laws defining murder as a crime. I believe some murderers have on occasion been cast in the role of martyrs. How stupid and illogical can we become in defending, or failing to defend ourselves from the most dangerous enemy our Nation has ever faced-an enemy without aided by conspiratorial allies within ? If Americans do not understand the body blow that outlawing the Communist Party would be to this treasonable group, be assured that the Communists are in no doubt about it. Temporizing and vacillation by the enemies of communism constitutes giving unwitting aid and comfort to the Communists. The recent history of the countries now behind the iron curtain is a lesson from which we must profit, and fast. It is suggested that if the party is not outlawed it can be watched. Actually it is underground for all practical purposes right now. Why not legalize that fact? You cannot watch Communists, you can't control them; you must outlaw them. Let's be consistent, let's act as realists. Outlaw the party now. Tomorrow may be too late for us, as it is already too late for the other once free peoples who hesitated in taking firm action and by their hesitation are now lost.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Ashe, what was the maximum number of Com- munists in this area ? 
Mr. ASHE. During my period ?
Mr. WALTER. Yes.
Mr. ASHE. I would say 1,500.
Mr. WALTER. That is in the Los Angeles area 
Mr. ASHE. That is in Los Angeles County. At that time about 2,600 to 3,000 in the State.
Mr. WALTER. That is all, Mr. Wood.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle of California. COMMUNISM IN MOl ION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Ashe, what sort of pay scale do the folks who were employed in the Communist Party receive as compared with other hired people; for instance, clerks Are they paid a standard scale, or a standard wage ?
Mr. ASHE. I wouldn't call it standard. It was a scab wage, non- union wage. I believe when I was in it the going wage, when you collected it, was something like $10 a week, but you didn't always get it.
Mr. DOYLE. Doesn't the Communist Party always have sufficient money to pay its employees well ? 
Mr. ASHE. Yes. But it has never been its policy to pay them well.
Mr. DOYLE. You mean, thenMr. AsHE. I am not too clear as to why this is, unless it is for the purpose of testing the leadership to see how much abuse they can take. But some of them have great capacity for that.
Mr. DOYLE. In your testimony you barely mentioned the subject of Communist fronts. Do you have anything to add to that ? How were they organized, what is the purpose of forming Communist fronts and how do you designate their value, if any, to the Communist program ?
Mr. ASHE. Communist front, or united front, was first formulated, I believe, in 1933 at the Communist International. It was brought down to the sister parties, including the Communist Party in this country, in late 1933 or 1934. I believe a man by the name of Dimitrov wrote on it, at considerable length, in a great many pamphlets on the subject which were distributed. The united frontMr. DOYLE. Let me interrupt you. I wasn't referring to that so much as I was the ordinary Communist front that is organized in different communities.
Mr. ASHE. That is what I am getting to. This was an established policy of the party, differentiating from an earlier period when they were very sectarian. This was a new policy to penetrate broader organizations than they had in the past been able to infiltrate. The united front was a weapon by which they could draw to them, surround themselves with, noncommunist elements-elements that would act as protective coloration for them in certain basic united front activities. In other words, in the unemployment field the Communists would set up a united front committee to attain certain minimum objectives in the field of unemployment. Then they would have people come as delegates from as broad a representative group of organizations as they could, including noncommunist labor unions, churches, fraternal organizations, youth groups of every conceivable kind. Sometimes these delegates would themselves be the Communists that were planted in these organizations and sometimes they would be innocents who had no conception whatever as to who was pulling the strings.
Mr. DOYLE. During your time of leadership in the Communist Party did the Communist Party, to your knowledge, employ and pay people to develop these Communist fronts in California? I mean, did they have paid workers assigned to that particular duty
Mr. ASHE. Generally not. Most of them were voluntary workers. There were very few paid functionaries in the party in California at that time.
Mr. DOYLE. When you say volunteer workers, would you say a large percentage of the Communist Party in California were really volunteer workers, giving a good deal of their time  1449 
Mr. AsmE. Oh, yes. The overwhelming part of them were at all times, and I believe to this day.
Mr. DYiLE. What front organization do you now have in mind, particularly in southern California?
Mr. ASHE. Well, I have in mind specifically a united front set-up, I believe I was chairman of it, dedicated to fighting against war and fascism. There was another united front having to do with-this was immediately after the EPIC campaign of 1934-I believe there was one involving Production for Use Congress, as they called it. The Communist Party sent delegates there. There was some protest from the floor as to the presence of Communist delegates. I was one of them, and there were 10 of us from the Communist Party. We very graciously withdrew from the conference and left behind us a very large number of Communists who were not known as such but who were there as delegates representing other groups. I mean this is a maneuver of the party.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. I notice now you mentioned your professional unit in the Communist Party. You mentioned attorneys, dentists, and newspapermen.
Mr. ASHE. That's right.
Mr. DOYLE. I am an attorney at law. I would be interested in ask- ing you this question: On what basis could you recruit members of the California bar to join an outfit that they knew was illegal How did they explain to you their willingness to become members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ASHE. I never asked them to explain their willingness. It was no concern of mine what their problem was as members of the bar, or how they reconciled it. It was my problem to get them in, and I did help to get them in. I thinkMr. DOYLE. What possible inducement could you make to a member of the California bar to join an illegal outfit? you use?
Mr. ASHE. I don't recall now. What arguments did I presume I made substantially the same argument that I made to newspapermen and any number of other people that I recruited. 
Mr. DOYLE. Can you give me a sample, shortly, of the arguments that you used to these professional men ?
Mr. ASHE. That the Communist Party was working for the best interests of the working class, that it was against war and fascism, which at that time very many liberal people were preoccupied with and considered it a real threat. I don't recall what else. This is about 15 years ago.
Mr. DOYLE. I realize it. You mentioned one Jeff Kibre, and you said, as I remember it, that you thought that he either was or is with a fisherman's union of San Pedro. 
Mr. ASHE. To the best of my knowledge, that's correct.
Mr. DOYLE. A branch of the Harry Bridges union.
Mr. ASHE. That's correct. 
Mr. DOYLE. From what you know of him, would you give it as your opinion that he still would be active in the Communist program?
Mr. ASHE. I feel that that is a reasonable assumption, considering the nature of the union that he heads up. This is one of the unions that I believe was expelled by the CIO in its effort to purge itself of 1450 Communists. I think it is a fair conclusion that he is still in, in view of the fact that I know he was in.
Mr. DOYLE. This morning you didn't have time to go into the subject very much of what campaign, if any, the Communist Party had while you were in it to try to take over control of any of the political parties in our State. Was there any such program, to put into positions of leadership in any of these parties, other than in the Communist Party, any leadership ? 
Mr. ASHE. I will have to go back a little to lay a basis for it. In 1934 Upton Sinclair ran for governor on the Democratic ticket with his EPIC movement. The Communist Party severely criticized the EPIC movement, later took another position, finally reversed itself and came to a third position; namely, that the Communist Party should infiltrate the EPIC club-they had local clubs--should infiltrate these clubs and help to control them and, incidentally, do Communits Party recruiting in this. However, this final decision was made solely that it had no practical effect on Mr. Sinclair's campaign. However, the following spring-I would say about February, possibly-the EPIC's had a post mortem convention at the A. F. of L. Labor Temple, and at that time the Communists were beginning to infiltrate into the EPIC movement. I remember the EPIC movement expressed itself through the Democratic Party. From then on the Communists made considerable headway in Democratic clubs. I have not too much actual knowledge of this except insofar as it was a matter of discussion in the Communist Party committee meetings. I do know they made a considerable amount of headway, but I am not in any position to name names at this late date. I do know, without any shadow of doubt, that they did make headway.
Mr. DOYLE. You mentioned a Syd Birke, B-i-r-k-e. I noticed that you said that was a party name, B-i-r-k-e ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct. 
Mr. DOYLE. And that Berkowitz was his real name?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. DOYLE. What do you mean by a party name ?
Mr. ASHE. A party name is a name-not in all instances, but in many instances people joining the Communist Party will, upon their application card, select another name by which they will be known in the party or, more often, by which the party card will be issued. Now, this may sound a little confusing. In some instances a person will be consistent in taking a party name and-will use the party name in every sense of the word. John Broman is an example. He is better known today as John Broman than he is his real name, Jack Wilson. In other words, he took this party name, but I have always been known as an open party member and used my real name in speaking on behalf of the Communist Party, once I came out into the open.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, is a fictitious name generally encouraged for party members ?
Mr. ASHE. At the time I came in it was; yes. It was considered a security measure. 
Mr. DOYLE. Security against what?
Mr. A6HE. Security against being exposed as a Communist Party member. 
Mr. DoYLE. I notice you testified as to Emil Freedman-  1451 
Mr. ASHE. Freed.
Mr. DOYLE. Freed ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct. 
Mr. DOYLE. I think you said that he pushed his way to a squad car and they finally obliged him; this was the first time he made a martyr of himself.
Mr. ASHE. That's correct. He was a rather amusing character in the party at the time I was there.
Mr. DOYLE. It is a general thing in the Communist Party membership that they try to make martyrs of themselves?
Mr. ASHE. No; it is not. Not at that time. The policy was, of course, to not flinch before the police if we had tangled with the police, which we did at that time, but at the same time it was not the party policy, nor is it the policy of the International Labor Defense, to seek out unnecessary arrests which would involve the legal defense of people who otherwise wouldn't have to be defended. It is an expensive procedure. Occasionally they would make an issue for purposes of propaganda, but he was certainly under no such in- struction, and it was a case of individual action on his part, and he was criticized for it.
Mr. DOYLE. I notice when you listed the five objectives of the Com- munist Party in Los Angeles County and in California, so far as Hollywood was concerned, the last one ydu listed, I believe, or identified, was in the sense of a criticism, I took it, or a suggestion that there was lack of vigilance on the part of anti-CommunistsMr. ASHE. That is true.
Mr. DOYLE. As to the real hazard. Well, now, what could folks do who want to smoke out subversive people in subversive programs to be more vigilant ? What from a practical viewpoint might be done ?
Mr. ASHE. Well, my criticism was leveled in a period in 1934. I certainly don't think it holds true today so far as the motion-picture industry is concerned. I do think that too many people in this country are asleep at the switch. Too many people do not know what communism is. They haven't even got a working knowledge of it. They couldn't define it. They don't know what its objectives are, and from this vague ignorance they are in no position to cope with it. After all, a doctor that knows nothing about a certain disease, I am fearful he wouldn't know much about isolating it.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you any program of education to recommend ?
Mr. ASHE. Not offhand; no; except that I feel that there is still generally an apathetic attitude in this country toward communism. I think that its numerical strength misleads people. I think that at the present time it is understood to have 40,000 members.
Mr. DOYLE. How do you explain the large attendance in this hear- ing, room todayMr. ASHE. This is a
Mr. DOYLE. If there is apathy on the part of the public?
Mr. ASHE. I am speaking of the public generally. I think that if we could make a poll here you would find approximately two-thirds of these people are members of or sympathizers of the Communist Party, and you have here a practical demonstration of a united front. This, incidentally, is a very clear evidence of apathy. I don't know what the numerical membership of the Communist Party here is now, or of its sympathizers, but I think it is significant that out of this small 1452 membership they can have half to two-thirds of the people in this room, and the rest of the city of Los Angeles is indifferent. few representatives of organizations are here, but- Maybe a 
Mr. DOYLE. I noticed you specified that there was a program of infiltration into unions and you said "even to the extent of paying dues; we placed members in trade-unions and paid their dues." Would you say to us that it would be your opinion that that sort of a program is still going on ?
Mr. ASHE. I don't think it is necessary now. Very few people are unemployed. I imagine the average Communist is making a pretty fair livelihood and is able to pay his own way in his tradeunions, and I imagine the party would expect him to. In those days he could not. He did not have the money. The dues, the initiation fees in some of the A. F. of L. unions were $20, $30, $50, and $100. This is a considerable sum of money for an unemployed worker to raise to get into a union, especially if he is not going to work in the trade.
Mr. DoYLE. Our distinguished counsel asked you about the ques- tion of force and violence. I am glad he did. I want you to help me, if you can, to get your opinion on two Federal statutes that are in existence. I am not sure that you are familiar with them. I refer to Public Law 831 of the Eighty-first Congress. We know it as the Subversive Activities Control Act; and in that, in section 2, our declaration of congressional policy states this: As a result of evidence adduced before various committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Congress hereby finds that there exists a world Communist movement which, in its origin, its development, and its present practice is a world-wide revolutionary movement whose purpose is by treachery, deceit, sabotage, terrorism, and any other means deemed necessary to establish a Communist totalitarian dictatorship in the countries throughout the world through the medium of a world-wide Communist organization. In your judgment was that declaration by Congress in 1950 an accurate appraisement of the condition at that time?
Mr. ASHE. I think it is a very restrained statement.
Mr. DoYLE. What do you mean by "restrained"?
Mr. ASHE. Well, I think I would have stated it a little more forcefully.
Mr. DoYLE. What would you have said ?
Mr. ASHE. I wouldn't want to formulate it offhand. I meanMr. DOYLE. You are not criticizing Congress, are you?
Mr. ASHE. I am not criticizing Congress. I think it is a restrained, judicial statement of fact. I happen to be sort of a person that can very easily blow his top, and if I didn't have microphones here I would probably use a little more forceful language to characterize the Communist international conspiracy. That is the only point I wish to make.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, now, that leads me to this question: Under the statute under which this committee here today is functioning, there is this declaration: The Committee on Un-American Activities as a whole, or by subcommittee, is authorized to make from time to time investigations: (1) The extent, character, and objectives of un-American propaganda in the United States; (2) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacks the principles of the form of government as guaranteed by the Constitution; and, lastly, all  1453 other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress in making any necessary remedial legislation. Now I direct your attention especially to the portion of this statute which assigns us to investigate subversive or un-American propaganda originating in foreign countries. You mentioned that very briefly this morning in your testimony. Am I to understand you that is your considered opinion and that even today there is subversive propaganda emanating from Soviet Russia designed to definitely attack, if needs be, and eventually by force our constitutional form of government ?
Mr. ASHE. I feel so. I couldn't document it for you at the moment because I didn't come prepared for that. This gets back again to the point that I make, that the People's World, the Daily Worker, New Masses should be barred from the mails. They are carriers of the Communist International line from day to day, following all its twists and all its turns and informing the comrades what to think from one day to the next. The poor devils don't know unless they read.
Mr. DOYLE. You realize this, Mr. Ashe, that I noticed a few minutes ago when you said that there was confusion, you said that you recommended the legislating of the Communist Party underground 6 feet; they were already underground less than that. I wonder to what extent you feel, though, or don't you recognize that it is absolutely necessary that not only this committee, and I am especially referring to this committee-that this committee representing the United States Congress take into cognizance at all times the fact that we must do nothing directly or indirectly that infringes on any constitutional rights of any American citizen. You see what I am getting at?
Mr. ASHE. I see what you are getting at, and I thinkMr. DOYLE. In other words, isn't it also important that at all times a congressional committee stand in the presence of the constitutional right of any citizen ?
Mr. ASHE. I agree with you, and I am afraid I am going to have to make an observation here to make my point clear.
Mr. DOYLE. I want you to, whatever your observation is.
Mr. ASHE. The Communist Party is a conspiratorial organization. It is an alien organization. The Communist Party has as one of its basic tenets that there cannot be a revolutionary theory without revolutionary action.
Mr. DOYLE. What do you mean by revolutionary action?
Mr. ASHE. The violent ultimate overthrow of this country and any other country that stands in their way, and this has been taught for years and years and years in the Communist Party, and every Communist in this room knows it.
Mr. DoYLE. You mean by that- 
Mr. ASHE. I mean that this is the thing that distinguishes the Communist Party from every other party in this country; that it isn't a question of stopping their freedom of thought, it is not a question of stopping their freedom of speech or freedom of press as such. The thing is that no Communist is a theorist unless he is also an activist, and that he cannot be a good Communist unless he is ready to put his revolutionary theory to the test on the barricades, and the Communists know this. Now, then, are you going to allow the Commu- 1454 nist Party to agitate right up to the day we are on the barricades, up to the day when they, themselves, have decided that the day has come where they have a fighting chance ? I say "No."
Mr. DOYLE. Well, then, are you familiar with the decision by the United States Supreme Court with reference to the Smith Act?
Mr. ASHE. I believe I am. Unfortunately, I don't share the views of the Supreme Court. I am unhappy to say that.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, now, in what way do you not, on the question of the Communists?
Mr. ASHE. I think that the Supreme Court is demonstrating in this country the difficulty of a democratic Nation to protect itself from being overthrown. I think that we are going to have to do some very serious thinking about the legalism by which the Communist Party manages to be-manages to keep itself from being brought to heel. The whole history of all of the other countries that have gone behind the iron curtain is a history of vacillation, of evasion, of hesitation, of fear, of talking about democratic rights until the whole country has lost all of its democratic rights and the Communist Party is in the saddle.
Mr. DOYLE. Then you would agree with the Supreme Court, though, in its recent decision on at least one point where it declares that, in substance and effect, it wasn't necessary for there to be preact of violence; that the encouragement of a preact of violence was sufficient?
Mr. ASHE. I think it had-I may be wrong. I think there was a question of real and present danger, wasn't there ?
Mr. DOYLE. All right.
Mr. ASHE. Well, I say that time is here now.
Mr. DOY=E. Then would you answer my question by saying that the real and present danger consists of a person orally advocating the forceful overthrow, or should the person have to do some overt act.
Mr. ASHE. The advocacy orally is a part and parcel of, although it may precede and probably will precede, the actual overt act. In other words, you can't have revolution unless revolution is discussed and unless tactics and strategy are worked out. This requires talking and it requires discussion.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask you one more question, Mr. Ashe, or two ? In my study of the statutes under which this committee functions, I perhaps went an additional step to try to understand the meaning of the word "subversive" in our statute which I read to you, and in studying
Mr. Webster's dictionary I found that the term "subvert" meansto overthrow; to overturn; to ruin utterly; to undermine the morals, allegiance, or faith of; to corrupt. Now, in view of that defining of the word "subvert" by Webster and Webster's Dictionary, do I understand that your appraisal of the Communist Party is that it sounds in time to subvert-in other words, that it is definitely the program to try to subvert our Nation ?
Mr. ASHE. Absolutely, at all times. 
Mr. DOYLE. One more question. We had testimony before this com- mittee in Washington several months ago from a former FBI agent who had been assigned to the duty of studying Communist cells in certain parts of our Nation, and he testified before us in substance that in his presence and to his knowledge-he had the places in mind and the occasions in mind-he heard conversation and discussion by members of the Communist cells there as to ways and means in which  1455 they could gather arms and ammunition, if needs be, to use in this revolution against our form of government. Now, do I understand you that the Communist Party, as you know it here in California, the leadership would go to that extent, to be interested in gathering arms and ammunition ?
Mr. ASHE. I think so. 
Mr. DOYLE. You do think so ?
Mr. ASHE. I know so.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, did you ever hear it discussed ?
Mr. ASHE. In 1934-35 when I was in the downtown section, I had been asked on numerous occasions by Nat Praeger, the then chairman of the disciplinary committee, to supply personable women to distribute a subversive paper called the Shipmates' Voice on board battleships, cruisers, and other United States naval boats anchored off Long Beach and San Pedro. This Shipmates' Voice was clearly an instrument by which the Communist Party hoped to recruit sailors into the Communist Party. At a later date I know that the Communist Party used good-looking women as decoys to entertain sailors with a view to recruiting them. I don't know what the results were, because that was not within my province. I do know it was going on, because I was asked to supply some of these girls, and I know on one occasion I put my foot down and- refused to allow some 16-year-old YCLers to be put to this purpose. At the same time the Communist Party was putting out a subversive, underground paper aimed at the soldiers who were in the Armed Forces, trying to subvert them, trying to sew the seeds of disaffection in their minds, exploiting every petty grievance that could be found. And, of course, you can always find them in the Armed Forces. They were following the same pattern here as they were in the Navy. At another period-and I can't recall the exact time-we were asked to go through our ranks very carefully and see what men could be persuaded to, or ordered to go into the National Guard, the California National Guard, and some of them went in.
Mr. DOYLE. Went in for some purpose?
Mr. ASHE. Well, I don't think they went in to play poker. They went in for the precise purpose of getting their hands on guns, getting into positions of leadership, even if it was only that of a noncommis- sioned officer, and awaiting the time when they could, with some degree of success, whether it was 10 or 20 years, play the role that is al- lotted to them, namely to turn the Armed Forces against the so-called capitalist state and utilize it for the Communist Party, following the identical pattern, incidentally, that was used in the Soviet Union when power was seized from the Kerensky government.
Mr. DOYLE. My final question is this, Mr. Ashe. I take it there was a time when you not only had little use, but no use or respect, for the functioning of the Un-American Activities Committee of the United States Congress. I take it by your testimony here this morning that you have changed that opinion.
Mr. ASHE. I would like to sayMr. DOYLE. What caused you to?
Mr. ASHE. What caused me to change ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. 1456 
Mr. ASHE. I think I made that fairly clear this morning, that I couldn't go along with the inhuman, brutal attitude of the [Communist Party] leadership, which I was finally obliged to realize was not purely a bad local leadership but was a reflection of the leadership clear up to the top.
Mr. DOYLE. 1 remember that testimony and I will interrupt you because I don't mean for you to repeat it. It was very helpful. Have you any suggestion for the functioning of this committee? Is there any field of endeavor that we should enter? Are we functioning, in your judgment, in a helpful, constructive manner or is there something we should add to our functioning?
Mr. ASHE. No. I think you are doing a very excellent job. I might add that when I borrowed this copy of the 1938 Report of the House Un-American Activities Committee from Charlie Daggett, which was in 1939, after I had ceased to be an organizational member of the party, that although that committee made many mistakes some of the testimony in there helped me to resolve my remaining idealogical doubts and helped to set me on the right road to recovering my freedom and completely disassociating myself from the Communist Party.
Mr. DOrYE. There is one other question I wish to ask you. I noticed this morning that on two occasions at least in one way or another you volunteered the statement even directing your statement to people possibly who might be in this room, that in your opinion there were many Communists that were seeking a way out-Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. DOYLE. Of membership in the Communist Party. Why did you mention that on two occasions? You emphasized it.
Mr. AsHE. Because I went through a very difficult period myself. I feel personally responsible for the fact that some of these people that are in this room are still in the party. I regret that I have to expose them but the responsibility is theirs. They are still in, so far as I know. I would like to see them get out. I don't think they belong in there. I think they have been badly misled. I think if they tad the benefit of associating, as long as I did, with the top leadership of the party, I think they would realize that they are associating with a bunch of rascals and skunks. That is my considered judgment. I know one man whose eye I caught here earlier this morning is a person in the Communist Party. I am satisfied just from looking in will. his eyes he wants to get out, and get out very badly. I hope he
Mr. DOYLE. You realize, don't you, that this committee has, over radio, through our counsel and through our distinguished chairman, offered on many occasions to cooperate with those who desire to coharm operate with the committee, and help them in every way-not toof the them but to help them, as they got out or desired to get out Communist Party ?
Mr. ASHE. I understand that. But what my purpose was this morning was to try to lay an escape route for these people who have been trapped in the party and who are going through a very trying psychological period when they can't disassociate themselves. They are completely surrounded. They don't know what to do, they can't think for themselves; they have surrendered the right to think and they don't know where to start again.  1457 I am merely trying to tell them how to do it, in the hope that they, too, will come forward within a year or two after they have been able to make their adjustments and make their contributions. I know I had a very trying period before I was completely free.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. That's all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. It will give me pleasure to recognize the appearance in the committee room of a distinguished State senator from Los Angeles County, Mr. Jack Tenney.
Mr. Jackson, do you have some questions ?
Mr. JACKSON. I should like to recognize, Mr. Chairman, the presence in the committee room of our distinguished Lieutenant Governor of the State of California, Goodwin J. Knight, and also Senator Nelson Dilworth, who has also been associated with the activities of the State un-American activities committee in Sacramento.
Mr. WOOD. It is a pleasure to have you gentlemen here, I am sure.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Ashe, during the course of your testimony you mentioned a man by the name of Will Geer, who has previously appeared before this committee. You were unable to state as a certainty whether or not the man who appeared was the same individual whom you had known during your period of time in the party.
Mr. ASHE. No; I couldn't state with certainty that the man who appeared a year or so ago before your committee was the man I knew in 1934.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you be able to give the committee a physical description of the individual who was known to you as Will Geer ?
Mr. ASHE. I am not too sure. When I knew him he was probably about my age, which would make him about, say, 32 to 34, maybe a little younger. Tall, lanky, loose-boned person. In those days he was quite thin-I don't think he was eating too well-rather an engaging personality, I would say. Under purely social conditions, a person that one would enjoy visiting with, shooting the breeze.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Geer made a very interesting witness before the committee. He didn't say much but he was extremely interesting. 
Mr. ASHE. I understand.
Mr. JACKSON. It has also been testified, or it has been stated in tes- timony taken before the committee that the Communist Party has been so organized in this country as to provide for successive echelons of command, to take care of such situations as the FBI round-up in New York and in San Francisco. Out of your personal knowledge of the operations of the Communist Party would you care to comment on what provisions have been made against possible removal of effective leadership at the district or State levels .
Mr. ASHi I wouldn't be able to speak now. In '34 or '35, '36, I had some knowledge of this procedure. In fact, my then wife, I believe, was one of those in charge of what they called "reserve committee." I know that there was at all times, especially during periods when the party was semi-legal, or semi-illegal, if you please, there was always provision made so that if the functioning bureau or leadership of the party in any area was taken that there were others immediately to rise to the surface. I think on this point I would like to make an observation that somebody somewhere has made the statement that in the event the party was rounded up that there would be 10 percent, or something 1458 like that, thrown in jail and the other 90 percent, presumably, would not. I think this would be a serious mistake, because the Communist Party has, as one of its basic teachings, that every Communist must be a leader. Every Communist is a potential leader, regardless of whether he is a rank and file in his unit, or what he is. He is taught at all times to assume leadership and how to assume leadership. He is taught to, if necessary, work on his own initiative. I know that when I was in we were taught a considerable amount of underground work, how to break the large units up into small units, how to convey messages, and so on and so forth. 1 don't think it is safe to assume that because you get a certain group of recognized leaders and put them in jail, and possibly convict them, that you have even scratched the surface as far as breaking up the party is concerned. Quite the contrary, you have merely brought out a new group of possibly younger and more competent leaders who have awaited this opportunity to demonstrate their ability for the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. During the course of your testimony you also set forth the circumstances of a meeting you attended on which occasion you waited on a very prominent street corner for several hours. You said at that time the only person who was likely to have known the meeting place, or who did know it, was Red Hynes. Would you further identify Mr. Hynes so there will be no misunderstanding.
Mr. AsHE. Mr. Hynes was-I believe he had the rank of lieutenant in the Los Angeles Police Department, was in charge of what they call the antisubversive detail, better known as the Red squad. I am quite sure at that time that he was fully cognizant of everything that went on in the Communist Party; in fact I even know his source of information. I didn't know it then.
Mr. JACKSON. His presence is sadly missed today, I might say, Mr. Ashe. Does a Communist Party member bear any allegiance to the United States of America or any of its institutions?
Mr. ASHE. None whatever.
Mr. JACKSON. Can a Communist be objective in his teachings ?
Mr. AsHE. No.
Mr. JACKSON. Can a Communist labor leader have any obligation to the people he is presumed to represent in his negotiations?
Mr. ASHE. No. Except incidentally, if it serves his purpose, for which he is really there, namely to carry out the program of the Communist Party, whatever that may happen to be at the moment.
Mr. JACKSON. You said in answer to a question directed to you by
Mr. Doyle, that probably the argument you used in recruiting individuals into the party was that the Communist Party stood for the best interests of the working people. That statement, of course, is no longer true in your own mind
Mr. ASHE. It wasn't true then.
Mr. JACKSON. I stand corrected. How long, in your opinion, Mr. Ashe, would free speech exist in this country if the Communist revolution came to pass ?
Mr. ASHE. Just long enough to organize a large force of uniformed goons.
Mr. JACKSON. How long would freedom of assemblage exist under a Communist regime?
Mr. ASHE. About the same time.  1459 
Mr. JACKSON. You mean less time that it would take to eradicate the House Committee on Un-American Activities?
Mr. ASHE. I would say so.
Mr. JACKSON. I suppose the same thing goes for freedom of religion and all the other freedoms that we know in our Bill of Rights and Constitution ?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. JACKSON. How much actual regard do members of the Communist Party hold for the Bill of Rights, with particular reference to the fifth amendment?
Mr. ASHE. Well, I understand at the moment that they are very much attached to the first and fifth amendments. I am not sure whether they know anything about the rest of the Constitution or not.
Mr. JACKSON. I would question at times whether they know anything about the first and fifth Amendments without the advice of counsel.
Mr. ASHE. I didn't say they knew anything; I said they were attached to it.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Ashe, in conclusion I want to thank you for your appearance here today. I think that every word of your statement has gone to the heart of this question. It would be my hope that every citizen of this country would have an opportunity to read what you have had to say. I congratulate you on it. I don't think communism has anything to do with a political party. It is an international conspiracy and I think you are entirely right when you say it should be outlawed lock, stock, and barrel. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter of Michigan. I would like to ask the guards, if there is another demonstration in this hearing room during the progress of these hearings, to immediately eject whoever is guilty of it. Proceed.
Mr. POTER. Mr. Ashe, was any effort made to recruit you back into the party after you disassociated yourself from the party ?
Mr. ASHE. Directly, no. For a long time I don't think that the leadership of the Communist Party knew what had happened, because when I came back to town after being on a tour for the Spanish refugee committee as an organizer, I found that my old branch, the fortyfourth Assembly District branch, had been reorganized and broken down into small units. Apparently each of the unit organizers assumed that I was in some other unit, which was precisely what I wanted them to think, and I didn't disabuse them. However, I will say this, that along about 1946, after the war was over, I received a communication from the one-time organizer of the Communist Party here in Los Angeles County, a man by the name of Jack Moore, whom I had personally known at one time. Jack wrote a letter to my home, told me that he was back from service overseas. had had a lot to think about, had changed his mind about a lot of things and indicated he was interested in writing. He knew that I was professionally engaged in writing, indicated that I-might be helpful to him professionally and indicated that he would like to talk things over, possibly resolve some of his own doubts. So I thought, well, I went through the mill, maybe this guy is going through the mill, so I 81595-51-pt. 4-4 1460 better see him. I made an appointment with him and met him at Manninz's Cafe on Third Street. We talked around a while about literature. He wanted to write a book. I couldn't see much possibility in it but at any rate he seemed to be interested in writing a book. I gave him such encouragement as I could and then pretty soon he came around to the question of how 1 felt about communism, so I proceeded to tell him. At this point I suddenly realized that Jack Moore had not sought me out with a view to getting any help, any guidance in resolving his problem, but rather quite obviously he had been sent by the party to interview me and to find out where I really stood. In other words, was I antiparty or was I merely out of the party. There is considerable difference. In other words, the party apparently was hopeful that I had been sufficiently neutralized that I would not harm the party. I know that we got onto the question of the possibility of another war and he wanted to know where I stood and indicated that he had grave doubts-remember he was an officer in the United States Army attached to a tank-destroyer battalion, I believe second lieutenant. He said that he would have grave doubts as to whether he would fight for this country in the event of another war. I told him that there was no doubt in my mind where my loyalty would stand. At one point we reached the point where we-we both had pretty good voices and we reached the point where we were shouting at each other in Manning's Cafe. And that is the last time I have seen Mr. Moore. I am quite sure that he immediately reported to the county office, where his wife at that time was some kind of functionary. I learned that later.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Ashe, at any time did the party functionaries ever get together and discuss that "come the revolution" they would be the men in control?
Mr. ASHE. Yes; there was a good bit of talk like that, but not too much. Some of it was more or less in jest. I mean they would kid about where they were going to live, but it was half kidding and half serious. I mean these guys weren't living too well and I suppose some of these residences out in Hollywood, and so forth, did appeal to them, and the idea of having three good meals a day. I mean there was a certain amount of that in a semihumorous vein, although, as I say, they have no real sense of humor.
Mr. PorrER. Did your organization, your county organization, receive many of the high functionaries from either the State central committee or the National central committee of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ASHE. Receive many?
Mr. PorTER. Yes. Did they come out and visit you or lecture to you, and so forth?
Mr. ASHE. Oh, yes. Sam Darcy, who was State organizer, came down here periodically to Los Angeles to meet with the leadership and frequently stayed at the home of Dr. I. S. Decker. I have attended several.meetings at Dr. Decker's home where Sam Darcy was present. We discussed immediate policies of the party, recruiting, how to infiltrate organizations, work in the united front, and other practical day-to-day problems. There have been national figures come out.  INDUSTRY 1461 Browder was out here in 1936 on a speaking tour, Robert Minor was here in 1934. I toured the State with Robert Minor. A man by the name of Ford, who was running for vice president in 1936, was out here and spoke at a large rally. They came through periodically and exerted great influence on the local party.
Mr. POTTER. When they would come out here would they meet with the leaders or would a mass meeting be held for them to speak ?
Mr. ASHE. Both. If they were competent public speakers they would usually speak at a large mass meeting or rally, and then in addition would meet with the party functionaries, the county leadership, and straighten out the county leadership on any points of policy that the county leadership was unclear on, or which it was going wrong on.
Mr. POTTER. When a person has been recruited into the party I assume there is a period of training or indoctrination that he must go through. I believe you stated that in your case you rebelled against the series of training experiences that you had.
Mr. ASHE. I rebelled at going through a beginners' class twice. There was a beginners class. This beginners' class would consist of all of the new members who had been recruited within the last few weeks. Sometimes a member would go into a unit before he had been in the beginner's class, simply because there was not a beginner's class in process at that time. But as soon as one was set up, when there were enough recruits one would be set up, a teacher would be assigned and then they would go to the beginner's class.
Mr. POTrER. I have here a photostat of a publication called the Communist Party, A Manual Of Organization, which was published in July of 1935. This was written by a J. Peters, a gentleman I am sure you are familiar with.
Mr. ASHE. That's right.
Mr. POTTER. As I understand, the information has been given our committee that this in many cases, this manual on organization has been used as a Communist Party bible in many sections, particularly with new members, to outline the party objectives. I would like to just quote a paragraph from the role and aim of the Communist Party as cited in their own manual, and I would like to have your comment to see if that paragraph I have cited was carried through into the organization as you were famili'ar with it, and I quote now: As the leader and organizer of the proletariat the Communist Party of the United States of America leads the working class in a fight for the revolutionary overthrow of capitalism, for the establishment of the dictatorship of the proletariat, for the establishment of a socialistic soviet republic in the United States, for the complete abolition of classes, for the establishment of socialism, the first stage of a classless, Communist society. Now, the role and aim as outlined in that short paragraph, would you say that was consistent with the Communist Party as you knew it ?
Mr. ASHE. Definitely.
Mr. POTTER. In line with your statement that the Communist Party is not a political party but an international conspiracy, I think it might be well, also, to cite from an oath that was taken by 2,000 members of the party, new members to the party, which was given to them by SSee appendix, printed in a separate volume for complete text of this document. 1462 Browder. This was in New York in 1935. I would just like to read one sentence, a very salient sentence, from this oath. It says: I pledge myself to rally the masses to defend the Soviet Union, the land of victorious socialism. Now, I don't know whether every new member of the Communist Party takes this oath or not, but I am anxious to receive your advice as to whether a member of the Communist Party is pledged to defend the Soviet Union irrespective of the position the Soviet Union might be in. "Mr. ASHE. That's correct. That has always been the position of the Communist Party, so far as I know, within my experience, without exception.
Mr. POTrER. In other words, if the Soviet Union should attack the United States a member of the Communist Party would be pledged to defend the Soviet Union rather than their own country?
Mr. ASHE. That's correct. 
Mr. JACKSON. One question. The people who took this oath, of course, are the same people who profess so vigorously against the signing of loyalty oaths on the part of anyone else.
Mr. ASHE. That's correct.
Mr. POTrER. Mr. Ashe, I wish to join my colleagues in thanking you for the forthright and wonderful statements that you have made. The American people will be proud of your testimony. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Ashe, I would like to join with the other members of the committee in expressing to you the deep appreciation which the committee feels for the courageous and forthright manner in which you have given us the benefit of your experience and your observations, suggestions and advice concerning this investigation and the current menace of communism to the American people and this Government. I feel that your evidence has been very helpful to the committee and should be of benefit and interest to the American people.
Mr. ASHE. Thank you.
Mr. WooD. If there are no further questions, Mr. Counsel, is there any reason why this witness should not be excused ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir, there is not.
Mr. WooD. It is so ordered. Who do you have next ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Mildred Ashe. 
Mr. WooD. Is Mrs. Mildred Ashe in the courtroom ?
Mrs. Ashe, will you hold up your hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear the evidence you give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mrs. ASHE. I do.
Mr. WOOD. Will you proceed, counsel. TESTIMONY OF MILDRED ASHE  