Mr. OFFNER. Herbert Offner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please iden- tify himself for the record.
Mr. PESTANA. Frank Pestana, P-e-s-t-a-n-a.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Offner? 
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. OFFNER. I was born in Montreal, Canada, in the year 1905. TAVENNER. When did you first come to this country? OFFNER. I would say approximately 1910, at the age of 5. TAVENNER. Are you a naturalized American citizen? 
Mr. OFFNER. Yes, sir; I am. 
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. land?
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you naturalized? OFFNER. In 1928, in the city of Cleveland, Ohio. TAVENNER. Over what period of time did you reside in CleveOFFNER. Since 1919, and I resided there until the year 1936. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you next reside?
Mr. OFFNER. Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have lived in Los Angeles since that time
Mr. OFFNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession or occupation?
Mr. OFFNER. I am primarily a musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been?
Mr. OFFNER. Well, I attended public schools of Newark, N. J. I graduated from high school in Cleveland, Ohio. Thereupon I entered a premed course at Western Reserve University, which I attended for about a year and a half. Subsequent to that I enrolled at UCLA. I have a bachelor of arts degree from that school, and a master of arts degree, with a major in the music college. Musically speaking, I received my early education at the Cleveland Institute of Music, and.had a scholarship there as a child, and studied 3842 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA composition under Roger Sessions and Ernest Bloch and later under Arnold Schoneberg. That was at UCLA. I studied violin under such teachers as Harold Berkley and Andre de Ribaupierre, and viola under Samuel Lifschey. That about does it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Approximately what date did you begin your professional career in California? 
Mr. OFFNER. The year 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Offner, were you aware of the existence of an organized group of the Communist Party composed exclusively or almost exclusively of members of the musical profession in Los Angeles?
Mr. MOULDER. Do you mean at this date or now or at any time?
Mr. TAVENNER. At any time. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. Could you please repeat the question, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you aware of the existence of an organized group of the Communist Party in the city of Los Angeles at the present time or at any time in the past composed exclusively or almost exclusively of members of the musical profession? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. In view of the fact that I am here under compulsion, not of my own free will, and in view of the fact that I believe this committee is in violation of the first amendment of the United States Constitution in that it is trying to delve into the private thoughts and opinions and associations of people, in view of the fact that I believe that Public Law 601, which created this committee, is similarly in violation of the first amendment, which clearly states that Congress or any authorized body appointed by Congress shall in no way abridge freedom of the press, association, and free speech-therefore, I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. SCHERE. May I interrupt?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. Witness, do you believe that the first amendment of the Constitution of the United States gives you the right to belong to the Communist Party and then prevents this committee from inquiring as to your membership in the party? Do you believe the first amendment of the Constitution does that? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. I wish to point out that the first amendment, in my understanding of it, states clearly that Congress shall make no law abridging freedom of speech or assembly, and that my refusal to answer this question or the previous one was based on my understanding of that amendment, sir, and of the fifth.
Mr. SCHERER. The Congress itself and the courts have said that the Communist Party is actually a criminal conspiracy directed by a foreign power. Now the first amendment gives you no more right to belong to such a conspiracy than it does to any of the other criminal' conspiracies, as, for example, a narcotic ring. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. Therefore, this committee certainly has the right to inquire as to your membership in such a conspiracy, the same as an-: other committee or the Department of Justice would have the right to COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3843 inquire as to your membership in a conspiracy to violate the Narcotics Act. It has nothing to do with the question of freedom of speech. This committee is asking you whether or not you have membership or have any knowledge of the activities of the Communist conspiracy. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, may I suggest this witness be directed to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question because your reasons for declining to answer are not sufficient under the law.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question. May I have read again or asked again the question that is pending?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. The question I asked was whether or not the witness has knowledge of the existence of an organized group of the Communist Party composed exclusively or almost exclusively of members of the musicians' profession that may be in existence now or has been in existence in the past in Los Angeles.
Mr. JACKSON. My understanding from the witness' answer is that he has invoked the first and the fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. No; I did not understand that.
Mr. MOULDER. I did not understand that.
Mr. JACKSON. I believe that is the case.
Mr. DOYLE. He invoked the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. SCHERER. My question was only directed to the invocation of the first amendment because, as I point out, we have the right to ask him with reference to his membership in the Communist conspiracy the same as another agency of the Government would have the same right to ask him whether he had any knowledge of the operation of any other conspiracy.
Mr. MOULDER. I understand that you refuse to answer, and your refusal is based upon the first and fifth amendments of the Constitution. Is that correct?
Mr. OFFNER. To supplement the reasons for my previous refusal to answer on the grounds that I already did give, I wish to state in answerMr. MOULDER. Will you answer my question definitely, specifically, as to whether or not you refuse to answer, and whether you base your refusal on the provisions of the first and fifth amendments of the Constitution ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. That is in the record.
Mr. MOULDER. He still refuses to answer.
Mr. JACKSON. The record will disclose, I think, that the witness refuses to answer on the grounds of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. MOULDER. That is correct. I am asking him that question.
Mr. OFrNER. I think that, as Congressman Jackson pointed out, the record speaks for itself. It is on the record, I believe, what my answer was. That is correct, yes, sir; that is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party, any branch of the Communist Party, in 1943 ?
Mr. OFFNER. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated. 3844 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1928 when you were naturalized as an American citizen? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. On the advice of counsel, I refuse to answer on the grounds of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. SCHERER. In view of the witness' answer to that question, I think we should ask the Department of Justice to determine whether or not denaturalization proceedings should be commenced in this case. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Offer, were you aware of the existence of a plan by the Communist Party to use its members in assisting to gst the Independent Progressive Party on the ballot in this State in 19 L8.
Mr. OFFNER. Apparently, if I may digress for a moment here in answer to the statement that was previously directed at me, my impression of this committee here was that it was here to obtain information, information preparatory to the passing of legislation or preparatory to recommending certain legislation for Congress, and that it was not an inquisitorial body, it was not here to pillory people or to in any way accuse them of any crime, or to persecute them or prosecute them for any crime. To my recollection, I have violated no law, I have committed no crime, I haven't even been accused of having committed any crime. Yet the threat was made here that I was to be threatened with revoking of my citizenship.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were threatened with an investigation of your situation when you refused to answer a very plain question as to whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party in 1928. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. When he was naturalized at the time.
Mr. OFFNER. May I point out, sir, that the recent decision of the Supreme Court in the Slochower case condemned the practice of imputing any sinister meaning to the right of a person, the privilege of that person to take the fifth amendment, and that the exercise of that right to take the fifth amendment in no way establishes a confession of guilt, nor is there a presumption of perjury.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Right at that point, Mr. Offner, I am glad you are familiar with that recent decision by the Supreme Court of the United States- with reference to the State law of New York. We, of course, agree with that decision. t.r. SCHERER. Don't say we do, Mr. Doyle. I do not agree with
Mr. DOYLE. I do in substance. But may I say that you apparently agree with that decision. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, I take it for granted that you can be frank with this committee, and that you are not afraid of any imputation of having done any wrong if you answer the questions of this committee frankly and honestly. If you believe in that decision why do you hide behind the fifth amendment?
Mr. MOULDER. The next outbreak or disturbance or demonstration in the hearing room will necessitate clearing the room of those responsible for the disturbance. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3845 
Mr. DOYLE. There are a half dozen people right over here that repeatedly cause a disturbance, and have done so every day they have been here.
Mr. MOULDER. Let us proceed.
Mr. DOYLE. You get my point. Now you also are quite right that this committee is here to seek information from you. That is why you were subpenaed, to give us information as an American congressional committee looking toward ways and means in which the United States of America, which you adopted as your nation, could better legislate in the field of the Communist or any other conspiracy designed to overthrow by force and violence our form of government. Why don't you, therefore, as long as you have given that as a basisand you are quite right; that is the basis or one of the reasons for this committee's being here. Why don't you cooperate and give us the information instead of claiming something that you are not afraid of?
Mr. OFFNER. May I ask you a question?
Mr. DOYLE. Certainly you can.
Mr. OFFNER. In one breath you tell us that you uphold the decision of the Supreme Court in the Slochower case, which you are in favor of. In the very next breath you ask me why I am attempting to hide behind that fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. That is right.
Mr. OFFNER. Isn't there a contradiction in what you say?
Mr. DoYLE. Not at all.
Mr. OFFNER. The Supreme Court said that there is no attempt, nor any reference nor implication of an attempt to hide behind anything, nor is it a confession of guilt.
Mr. DOYLE. I have given you an opportunity again to answer and give the committee the information, and apparently you came here cocked and primed to give a speech against the committee. It is clear as crystal that is why you came. That is your position. And you have the right to claim the constitutional provisions, of course. But I didn't want you to claim familiarity with that recent decision of the Supreme Court and then refuse to come forward with information about the Communist conspiracy. You are the one that is inconsistent. If you are not afraid of having any imputation of guilt of some kind by pleading the amendment why do you plead it? What are you afraid of? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. May I point out, sir, that the amendment-and I include the first as well as the fifth in this case-is for the innocent as 'well as the guilty.
Mr. DOYLE. Certainly.
Mr. OFFNER. And your efforts to take the fifth amendment or the meaning put into it by the decision of the Supreme Court recently in interpreting that fifth amendment shows that you are out not to uphold that fifth amendment but to destroy it.
Mr. DOYLE. Oh, no. Let me state this one thing clearly for your information. You have heard me state that I am in substantial agreement with the Supreme Court decision to which you refer. And I take it that you are. You are, aren't you? 3846 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. Well-Mr. DoYLE. If you are or are not, say so. I have stated my position. If you agree with that decision why then do you hide behind the amendment in this case?
Mr. OFFNER. That to me again, Mr. Doyle, is an indication of - contradictory statement.
Mr. DOYLE. That is all right, but- 
Mr. OFFNER. You in one breath uphold the decision of the Supreme Court in that particular case, and, in the next breath, you accuse the person of hiding behind that. That clearly statesMr. DOYLE. I don't impute anything to you, sir, as a result of that amendment. I do impute to you a definite refusal to give to your Congress any information about the Communist conspiracy. You laid before this group here the fact that you thought we had come here to get information. We have. And our counsel has given you a chance to give us the information. And then you plead the amendment.
Mr. OFFNER. May I point out, sir- 
Mr. DoYLE. I am not imputing any guilt.
Mr. JACKSON. May we have the regular order? We have 20 or 25 more witnesses to hear. On this discussion, of course, the witnesses are here prepared to plead every possible instance in court where their position has been upheld. It is quite logical. If we get into a debate as to the merits of the decisions we can be here until next month, which I am sure we don't want and I am sure the witnesses don't want either.
Mr. MOULDER. Any additional questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No; I have no questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you answer the question, please?
Mr. OFFNER. What is the question, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't think you remembered. My question was were you familiar with the plan of the Communist Party to use its members to assist in putting the Independent Progressive Party on the ballot in Californa in the year 1948?
Mr. OFFNER. To my best recollection, I believe I already answered that question by pleading the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you so plead?
Mr. OFFNER. Yes, sir; I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Testimony has been received that the members of this musicians' group of the Communist Party with which you have been identified by sworn testimony were directed to circulate petitions to put the Independent Progressive Party on the ballot. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. IS there an inference there, Mr. Tavenner, to the effect that the people of this Nation do not have the right given them by the first amendment to petition? Is it a crime to petition? I would like to have that question answered.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will be glad to answer the question in this way: The committee has received evidence indicating the plan of the Communist Party to put a ticket on the ballot, not under the name of COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3847 the Communist Party because it had been proved that they could not appeal to the rank and file of the people of this country under its proper name, and, therefore, the Independent Progressive Party in this State was sponsored by the Communist Party. Now that is a matter of which this committee has received some evidence. You are in a position to enlighten the committee on that subject, according to our information. We are asking you to do so. Now will you answer the question ?
Mr. OFFNE. Yes, I will answer it. The historical records are full of instances where the charge of conspiracy has been made in attempts to squelch public rights.
Mr. MOULDER. Please let us proceed. We will never finish our hearings. That isn't an answer to the question, Mr. Offner. You could decline to answer the question and state your reasons for declining, or make a direct answer in response to the question.
Mr. OFFNER. Sir, I am merely attempting to answer in my own way. If it is a clumsy way, if it is a little bit lengthy, I am sorry. That is the only possible way I can answer this question to the best of my ability.
Mr. MOULDER. You do intend to give an honest answer to the question?
Mr. OFFNER. Yes, sir, I do intend to come to an honest answer in this.
Mr. MOULDER. All right.
Mr. OFFNER. History is full, as I said before, of evidences of this type of charge, of conspiracy. May I point out that Marcus Aurelius accused the early ChristiansMr. TAVENNEE. That is not responsive to the question, and I ask thatMr. MOLDEE. You are clearly far afield. You are directed to answer the question or decline to answer the question-one or the other. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.) (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OFFNER. IS the Chair ruling that I cannot give the answer in my own way, but that I must restrict my answer to the confines and to the methods and procedures that this committeeMr. MOULDER. The Chair is ruling that you cannot give the answer in the manner which you have on three occasions now, and endeavor to reply by making a long dissertation or speech about ancient history or something of that sort. You understand clearly what counsel means when he asked you that question, without going around the bush as you are, and, therefore, I direct you to answer the question or decline to answer, as you choose. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. OvFNER. I am answering the question in the best way that I know how. But I also would like to point out that there was a speaker here the other day that spoke here for 6 hours without an interruption.
Mr. MOULDER. You are directed to answer the question or decline to, as you please. 77430-56-pt. U--a 3848 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA (The witness confers with his counsel.) 
Mr. OFFNER. I decline to answer that question on the basis of the grounds previously stated.
Mr. MOULDER. That is the first and fifth amendments?
Mr. OFFNER. That is correct.
Mr. MOULDER. Now you see how easily you could have avoided all this harangue we have gone through? Proceed, Mr. Counsel. (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of a petition under date of January 31, 1948, at the end of which there is an affidavit signed in the name of Herbert Offner to the effect that he had solicited the signatures on this petition. Will you examine it, please, and state whether or not the signature appearing in the affidavit was made by you? (Document handed to the witness and his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. At this point the chair wishes to announce that we are honored by the presence in the hearing room of Col. Carl White, director of customs of the port of Los Angeles. Thank you. Now may the record also show that the witness has examined the document referred to by counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have asked the witness a question.
Mr. PESTANA. I think the record should show that the witness is examining the document.
Mr. MOULDER. The record will show that the witness is examining the document referred to by counsel. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. Now this is being marked exhibit what?
Mr. WHEELER. NO. 1.
Mr. MOULDER. This document is now marked "Offner Exhibit No. 1." SMr. TAVENNER. For identification only.
Mr. OFFNER. In declining to answer this question I would like to state my reasons, primarily this, that, as is well known, the Constitution of the United States, specifically the first amendment, clearly states that a person has a right to petition the Government, and that I believe it is not in violation of any existing law. No one has committed a crime by signing petitions of this type. On the contrary, they are exercising their constitutional right to do so. But if I am asked whether that is my signature or not, I decline to answer on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. JACKsoN. Mr. Chairman, I am in complete accord with the witness, that no crime is involved in the matter of the petition. That has been stated by the witness himself. And I submit that any claim of the provisions of the fifth amendment relating to self-incrimination are obviously misused in this instance. I do not accept the refusal of the witness in this instance inasmuch as he has stated that no crime is involved, and ask for direction that he be required to answer the question as the basis for a possible contempt citation.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness has heard the statement and the motion made by Mr. Jackson, of California. The witness is directed to answer the question. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3849 
Mr. OFFNER. I have already declined to answer that question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. JACKsoN. May I make a statement for the record? I do not accept the answer on the basis of the witness' own statement. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. I wish to supplement Mr. Jackson's statement and the statement of our distinguished legal counsel a few minutes ago when he explained to the witness that we are not undertaking to interfere with the right of petition, but we were inquiring as to the extent to which the Communist Party in California secretly, subversively circulated this petition to obtain the signatures of unsuspecting American citizens without revealing the identity of the Communist Party as the circulator. That is why we are inquiring, as I see it, from this witness in this field. It has nothing to do with our interfering with the right of petition to the Government for redress of grievances.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Doyle is perfectly right. The Government always has the right to inquire into fraudulent petitions which deceive the public.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Offner Exhibit No. 1." (This exhibit is similar to Roth Exhibit No. 2, p. 3860, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. MOULDER. It is so ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party
Mr. Offner?
Mr. OFFNER. I decline to answer that on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. OrFFER. The same type of question; the same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions of this witness.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. NO questions.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused. You may claim your attendance fee at the desk behind your chair.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Sam Fordis.
Mr. MOULDER. Will you please hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to ive will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you, God ?
Mr. FoRDms. I do. 3850 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA TESTIMONY OF SAM FORDIS, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, FRANK PESTANA 