Mr. KLEIN. As soon as the pictures are over.
Mr. TAVrENN'ER. Yes, sir.
Mr. KLEINx. Sir? 
Mr. T.AVENNER. Will you state your full name, please, sir?
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. Herbert Arthur Klein.
Mr. T.AENNER. How do you spell your last name ? '
Mr. KLEx. K-l-e-i-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Klein?
Mr. KLEIN. In New York City, 1907, January 7.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee what your educational background has been?
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. Grammar and high schools in Los Angeles; Stanford University. A. B. degree.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you at Stanford?
Mr. KLEIN. Until 1928. Occidental College, master's degree.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. Will you raise your voice a little. It is hard for me to hear with the fans over to my left.
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. sure. Occidental College, master's degree. Graduate work in European universities and at Columbia University.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you receive graduate work in Europe?
Mr. KLEIx. I had several semesters in German universities in the city of Berlin.
Mr. TAVENNER. What university ?
Mr. KLEIN. The University of Berlin, itself, and the HandelsHochschule, which is the equivalent of a graduate school of business or economics.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name of the institution.
Mr. KLEIN. Surely. H-a-n-d-e-l-s-H-o-c-h-s-c-h-u-l-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive a degree or degrees as a result of the graduate work ?
Mr. KLEIN. No, no further degrees beyond the master's.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what was the year in which you completed your graduate work in Germany?
Mr. KLEIN. 1933.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in Germany after the completion of your work ?
Mr. KLEIN. Oh, I believe I left very shortly thereafter. I left Germany, if I am not mistaken, in April of 1933. April or May.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you return at that time to the United States?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, no. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When you say you left GermanyMr. KLEIN. Yes. No, I was engaged in newspaper work, also, and from Germany I went to London where I continued in newspaper work for a number of months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what type of newspaper work were you engaged in?
Mr. KLEIN. I was working for news services. I was working for the Chicago Tribune at the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return to the United States?
Mr. KLEIN. In the latter part of the summer of 1933.  1563 
Mr. TAVENNER. Since returning to the United States how have you been employed ?
Mr. KLEIN. My employment has been chiefly as a teacher. I have also had employment in newspaper and news service work.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your employment in newspaper and news service work?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, may I just give the most important instances?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. We may differ on the question of impor- tance, so I would like for you to name all the newspapers that you have worked for.
Mr. KLEIN. I see. Well, I have had employment of varying dura- tions for the French Radio News Service in New York; with the Los Angeles Daily News; for the newspaper PM as a correspondent; and for the San Francisco Call-Bulletin and some other publications of a trade-union nature.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you worked at any time in any capacity for a publication of the Communist Party ? By that, I am not indicating that I have information that that is correct.
Mr. KLEIN. Publication of the Communist Party?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. The New Masses, for instance, was recognized as a publication, an official organ of the Communist Party. So was the Daily Worker andMr. KLEIN. I see.
Mr. TAVENNER. Various other papers with which you are no doubt familiar.
Mr. KLEIN. Well, I am not intimately familiar with the definitions and the ramifications of the listing of subversive organizations or publications, and I decline to give an answer to this question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination and a privilege as granted me under the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what was your last newspaper assignment ?
Mr. KLEIN. Pardon me just a moment. Are you referring to my latest employment by a daily newspaper ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, we will take that first.
Mr. KLEIN. I mean, I don't wish to be hair-splitting, but I would like to know the nature of your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Well, let's take that first, daily newspapers.
Mr. KLEIN. That's right. The last time I worked for a daily newspaper, to the best of my recollection, was for the Los Angeles Daily News.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
Mr. KLEIN. That was until-that was approximately July of 1945, or possibly August.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then will you state your last employment with a news service of any other character, other than a daily paper?
Mr. KLEIN. I see. Well, I must decline to answer that question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination and the rights guaranteed me under the fifth amendment.
Mr. WOOD. Well, that doesn't require you to decline to answer.
Mr. KLEIN. I beg your pardon?
Mr. WOOD. There isn't any compulsion.
Mr. KLEIN. NO, I understand. The phraseology called for is I do decline to answer as previously stated. 1564 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TA\ENNER. Did you hold any office or position in any newspaper or news service?
Mr. KLEIN. Office or position ? 
Mr. T\AENNER. Yes; such as an editor of a paper, a business mana- ger or any other position with a news publication or news service. (Witness consults with counsel.)
Mr. KLEIN. Oh. I see. You mean a position of some authority or executive position ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, of course, I used it in a rather broad sense.
Mr. KLEIN. Well, I was wondering if you meant that being office <boy was a position, also?
Mr. TAVENNER. Oh, no. I wouldn't accuse you of being an office boy, see.
Mr. KLEIN. I wouldn't take it amiss if you did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us forget about any menial positions of that character, but I am speaking of a position such as an editor, the head of a news organization, or a position comparable to that.
Mr. KLEIN. I see. Well, I decline to answer that on the grounds previously stated. I decline to answer on the grounds that I have previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you the head of the Federated Press in 1944Mr. KLETN. I decline
Mr. TAVENNER. In Los Angeles? 
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination and the rights guaranteed me under the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you contribute articles to the New Masses at any time ?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, we have talked about your employment record in the newspaper field and in the news service field.
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You said you also have been part-time teacher. Will you tell us more about your occupation and your work as a teacher ?
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. I was a member of the faculty of Los Angeles City College from 1938 until, I believe, the latter part of December 1941. Just after Pearl Harbor. And I returned to teaching in the junior college field in February of 1949 and continued until the close of the summer just ended-just ending.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, where was that?
Mr. KLEIN. At the junior college, El Camino Junior College. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, in addition to your employment in the news- paper field and as a teacher, were you employed in the motion-picture industry in any capacity at any time?
Mr. KLEIN. I had some employment as a member of the publicity organizations of three or four motion-picture studios. This was in the period, I believe, between the beginning of 1945-I beg your pardon-between the beginning of 1935 and, I think, the close of 1938. It was all within that general period. I worked as what it known as a unit man. That is to say, I gathered news stories about motion F INDUSTRY 1565 pictures then in production. These stories were then supplied to newspapers and news services throughout the country.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever been employed by the United States Government?
Mr. KLEIN. Yes, I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what capacity and where?
Mr. KLEIN. I was employed during 1942 in the United States De- partment of Agriculture, and during approximately the first 5 or 6 months of 1943 in the WPB.
Mr. TAVENNER. War Production Board?
Mr. KLEIN. That's correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, where did you serve in your first position in the Agriculture Department? Where did you serve? 
Mr. KLEIN. My regular place of employment was Washington, D. C., although I was sent out a number of times on field trips in various parts of the country.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the general nature of your duties while in that Government employment?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, this was a research position designed to assist in securing the necessary farm labor, the distribution of farm labor necessary to provide for harvesting of all the crops during the war period.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what was the nature of your duties while employed by the War Production Board ?
Mr. KLEIN. I had an editorial position, and my duties included the preparation of articles for a magazine known as, I believe it was, War Production, a weekly publication, a review of progress in the field of production. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. In the performance of that work, were you given access to any classified information? (Witness consults counsel.)
Mr. KLEIN. Would you kindly explain what you mean by classified information?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if your position was to write on subjects dealing with the activities of the War Production Board, as you have stated, I would like to know just what access you had to information with the War Production Board which might be of a classified or secret character.
Mr. KLEIN. I see. Well, I don't recall the designations of the material. My work consisted almost entirely of preparing graphical presentations and charts and, to a lesser extent, of rewriting; that is, supplying the wording for material that had already been chosen by the editor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did your work involve the preparation of articles for publication in the public press or for use by the personnel of the War Production Board ?
Mr. KLEIN. I believe that the circulation of this magazine was -for the purpose of the personnel of the War Production Board and certain other Government officials with whom I was not cognizant. I was in no way aware of the actual subscription or circulation list.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, is it correct to say that the general character of that work was of a restricted nature as far as the use of it was concerned? 1566  
Mr. KLFIN. I cannot-I can't answer as to(Consulting with counsel.) I'm sorry: 1 was about to say I cannot give an answer as to the use to which this information was put. It was my understanding, from the character of the publication, that it was designed to provide a rather rapid and quick survey for the benefit of officials interested in war production.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of your going to the War Production Board?
Mr. KLEIX. I believe that it was in February of 1943.
Mr TAVENNER. When you entered upon your Government employment with the War Production Board, did you sign an affidavit or make an oath that you were not a member of any organization devoted to the principle of overthrowing the Govermnent of the United States?
Mr. KLEIX. I cannot recall whether I had any such oath or affirmation at that particular juncture because my work-my position was a transfer from another Government agency.
Mr. TAVE-XER. Had you been required to sign such an affidavit when you first entered into the Agriculture Department?
Mr. KLEIs. It is my recollection that that took place approximately January of 1942.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then your entire file, including your oath, would have been transferred to your new department? (Representative Clyde Doyle left the room at this point.)
Mr. KLEIN. I was not in the Personnel Division. I cannot give an answer to that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you entered upon your work with the War Production Board. were you a member of any organization devoted to the overthrow of the United States Government?
Mr. KLEix. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment and the first amendment to the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENER. Were you a member of any organization devoted to the principle of the overthrow of the Government of the United States while you were a teacher in the junior college which you referred to a moment ago, El Camino Junior College ?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of any organization devoted to the overthrow of the Government of the United States when you returned to the United States from Germany ?
Mr. KLEIN. Are you referring to the year 1933 ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Whatever date it was when you returned from the completion of yourMr. WALTER. He said April 1933.
Mr. TAVENNER. April 1933, I am advised.
Mr. KLEIN. As a matter of fact I believe it was August, but that's not the point. I decline to answer that on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you used any name other than the name which you have given to the committee here today?
Mr. KLEIN. Declination to answer on the same grounds as previously given.  1567 
Mr. TAVENNER. Isn't it a fact that you were known in the Commu- nist Party by the name of James Hall, and that was your Communist Party name ?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that and all similar questions on the grounds of the right assured me under the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information, Mr. Klein, that in 1938 you were one of the organizers of what was known as unit 140 of the professional section of the Communist Party of Los Angeles, which unit was made up of Communists who belonged to the Newspaper Guild in Los Angeles. Were you one of the organizers of that unit ?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that on the same grounds as previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you inform this conunittee as to any fact that you have, or that you know, relating to the membership in such a section of the Communist Party of members of the Newspaper Guild in Los Angeles ?
Mr. KLEIN. May I ask you to repeat that question, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you read the question, please. (The reporter read the pending question.)
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that on the same ground as previ- ously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make a report to a Communist Party unit meeting held at the home of Rose Boyd in Los Angeles, relating to the Communist Party State convention which had been held in San Francisco earlier in the month of May 1938?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer on the grounds of possible self- incrimination and the rights assured me under the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Nathan Gregory Silvermaster ?
Mr. KLEIN. He was the chief of the Labor Division of the Farm Security Administration in the United States Department of Agriculture for a good share of the year 1942.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you employed under him in your work in the Agriculture Department ?
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. He wasn't my immediate superior, but he was the Chief of the Division.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you visit him at his home?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of my rights under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TA\VENNER. Were you acquainted with Victor Perlo?
Mr. KLEIN (confei'ring with counsel). I decline to answer that question on tlie grounds previously stated. (The witness further conferred with counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you acquainted with Mr. Silverma ster
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that question on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. T'.VENXER. When did you first meet him?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline again on the grounds I have already stated.
Mr. T.VE1:NER. May I call to your attention, and your counsel's attention, for his consideration, that you have waived any possible 1568 immunity you may have to answering questions relating to Silvermaster because you have admitted that you knew him. So I repeat the question: When did you first meet Mr. Silvermaster ?
Mr. KE.NY-. I think, in fairness to the witness, an examination of the record will not reflect any such admission that the witness knew Mr. Silvermaster. He worked in a department where he was.
Mr. KLEIN. I understood you to mean personal acquaintance when you say. "Did you know him." (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I may have been in error in my recollection as to the question and answer, and I withdraw the question. During the time that you were employed by the War Production Board, was any question raised regarding your possible membership in an organization devoted to the overthrow of the Government of the United States?
Mr. KLEIN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds al- ready sufficiently stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Why did you leave your employment with the War Production Board? 
Mr. KLEIN (after conferring with counsel). I will also decline to answer that question on the grounds I have already given.
Mr. TAVENNER. How are you now employed, Mr. Klein? 
Mr. KLEIN. As of the present time I am not employed.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what work are you now engaged, whether employed or unemployed ?
Mr. KLEIN. At this moment?
Mr. TAVENNER. Not while you are sitting here, but I would say yesterday and the week before.
Mr. KLEIN. I see. Well, since approximately 1: 30 Sunday after- noon my time has been employed at the discretion of this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand that, and I am not referring to that period of time.
Mr. KLEIN (after conferring with counsel). Well, I have been for some time, as a parallel or side employment, I have been self-employed in the making of educational films or visual aids.
Mr. TAVENNER. Haven't you been engaged in other work besides that within the past few weeks ?
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. I was until recently; I was doing public-relations work for a trade-union.
Mr. TAVENNER. What trade-union?
Mr. KLEIN. The United Automobile Workers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now on strike at Douglas Long BeachMr. KLEIN. What is the implication of your question, if I may ask?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you answer the question, please, sir ?
Mr. KLEIN. I would like to have a little clarification.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you want the implication, it is this. This com- mittee has made a very strenuous effort over a period of 2 years to advise the leadership in labor when it has been infiltrated by persons who advocate principles which are disloyal to this country, and that is the inference which I want to present, if there is a basis for it. Now you are in a position to clear that matter up. If you are a member of the Communist Party and as such are engaged in any responsible position in labor, in government, in the moving-picture industry, or  INDUSTRY 1569 in any other industry, it is the duty of this committee to investigate that fact and find it out.
Mr. KLEIN. Well, I wish to call to the counsel's attention that I have terminated this employment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I did not hear your answer.
Mr. WooD. He called counsel's attenion to the fact that his employment has been terminated.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that done?
Mr. KLEIN (conferring with counsel). I terminated it as early as possible after receiving the subpena from the committee. It took effect as of this morning.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to commend you for that action because I meant to leave no implication that there was any Communist leadership in that strike or that it was in any sense a Communist strike. I have no information or knowledge on the subject. But, if there is anyone connected with it who is working as a member of the Com- munist Party, then we want to know that fact.
Mr. KLEIN. IS this a question that you are addressing to me or is it a statement?
Mr. TAVENNER. It's an answer to the inference which you said that we were making.
Mr. KLEIN. I see.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter, do you have any questions ?
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Klein, what was the Federated Press ?
Mr. KLEIN (after conferring with counsel). I will have to decline to answer your question or to enter into any discussion on the grounds that I have already stated in previous declinations.
Mr. WOOD. As far as this committee is concerned, you don't have to decline to answer.
Mr. KLEIN. I will rephrase it and say I do decline.
Mr. WALTER. I don't care to enter into any discussion with you about it; I merely, as a matter of information, wanted to know what the Federated Press was.
Mr. KLEIN. Well, I don't wish to avoid discussion with you, but under the circumstances and in the context of this committee, and with the directory at hand, I see no other possible answers that I can give you and preserve the rights that I have previously referred to.
Mr. WALTER. What crime do you think you would be guilty of committing or could be prosecuted for by telling me what a press service or a publication is? (At this point Representative Clyde Doyle returned to the room.)
Mr. KLEIN. Well, again I regret to avoid any discussion with you or exchange of opinion, but the same answer must hold with regard to my giving of reasons as held with regard to my answer to your previous question, Congressman.
Mr. WALTER. That is all.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Klein, I had to leave the room a few minutes. I'm sorry I wasn't here to hear all of your testimony.
Mr. KLEIN. That is quite all right.
Mr. DoYLE. I would like to have had the benefit of all your answers, of course. But I was particularly interested in the fact that you had 1570 INDUSTRY been benefited by having such a fine opportunity for, shall I say, schoolroom or classroom or university learning as contradistinguished from some of us that haven't had that benefit. Then I noticed you said you taught. at Los Angeles City College from 1938 to 1941Mr. KLEIN. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. Then at El Camino Junior College for a time. Now, what did you instruct in?
Mr. KLEIN. Chiefly in the field of English composition and literature. I also taught the German language.
Mr. DOYLE. Are you familiar with the Federal statute under which this committee operates by the instruction of the United States Congress
Mr. KLEIx. Well, I believe I am somewhat familiar with it. I probably am not an expert on it.
Mr. DOYLE. Give me your opinion of what statute you think we are operating under in this hearing.
Mr. KLEIN. I think it would be presumptuous on my part to give you my opinion of a statute which you are already intimately ac- quainted with. (At this point Representative Francis E. Walter left the room.)
Mr. DOYLE. What I mean, Mr. Klein-I can see you are a greatly read gentleman, and I just assume that you are perfectly familiar, or at least generally familiar, with the wording of the text of the statute-it is very brief-under which we operate. I don't mean to embarrass you at all.
Mr. KLEIN. It is no embarrassment. You will please correct me. It is my understanding that the statute is one that empowers this committee to investigate and make recommendations regarding subversive activities in the United States. (At this point Representative Charles E. Potter left the room.)
Mr. DOYLE. That is correct.
Mr. KLEIN. Thank you.
Mr. DOYLE. You would feel, I am sure, that that is a worthy objec- tive and a high purpose and a necessary purpose, wouldn't you?
Mr. KLEIx. Yes; I certainly do. In the full sense of the word "subversive."
Mr. DOYLE. And in the full sense of the word "subversive," I suppose you agree with Mr. Webster
Mr. KLEIn. Well, I am more or less obliged to.
Mr. DOYLE. Assuming then that you even learn from him, the same as all the rest of us do, I would take an occasion to look up the meaning of the word "subversive" and the word "subvert" by Mr. Webster. I presume you haven't had occasion to look at the meaning of the word recently.
Mr. KLEIN. Yes; I have.
Mr. DOYLE. What did you find?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, if I am not mistaken, it means to undermine and to ruin utterly.
Mr. DOYLE. That's right, and that is only part of the definition. Can you give us the balance of it, if you remember?
Mr. KLEIN. I'm sorry, I break down at that point.
Mr. DOYLE. Let me add then, "to overturn; to overthrow; to under- mine the morals, the allegiance, or the faith of; to corrupt." remember reading that, too? Do you  INDUSTRY 1571 
Mr. KLEIN. Well, I recall from your excellent reading.
Mr. DOYLE. This committee then is primarily assigned by the United States Congress to investigate, to uncover, to interest itself in these subversive people and the subversive programs.
Mr. KLEIN. Are you pointing your pencil in my direction ?
Mr. DOYLE. No; not at all.
Mr. KLEIN. I see. Please don't.
Mr. DOYLE. Not at all. I have quite the habit, however, being a lawyer and having practiced law some 25 years in a neighboring city and the courts in this city, and I suppose I acquired the habit like your own worthy council did of emphasizing before the jury by appropriate manipulations. So I am pointing my pencil as I am; I am not pointing it to you as a subversive at all. However, may I say to you, as one man to another, from the evidence I have heard from different parts of the country, I am. under a very firm conviction. I think as a reasonable person, that the Communist Party in America is subversive, definitely so. I see two or three smiling at that statement, and I can understand it. But I want to say to you, sir, that, believing then as I do that the CommunistParty is definitely subversive, would you think that if I believe that as a member of this committee that my duty is to ask you if you are a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KLEIN. I am sorry; I don't quite get the purport of your question.
Mr. DOYLE. The purport of my question is thisMr. KLEIN. Do I believe what ? 
Mr. DOYLE. This committee is under the firm conviction that the Communist Party in the United States is a subversive party under the definition of Mr. Webster. And under the text of our assignment we are designated to investigate subversive people and subversive programs. Wouldn't you say that it was our duty under our statutes to ask you, therefore, since we were informed that you are a member of the Communist Party, shouldn't we ask you very frankly here in this public session whether or not you are ?
Mr. KLEIN. You are asking me to tell you what you ought to do or ought not to do; is that correct?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. I will ask you frankly, Shouldn't we try to find out where subversive people are and what their subversive programs are?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, in the first place, I don't believe-I am not try- ing to either advise you nor counsel you, but in the first place the question which you addressed to me is without any basis. I do not recall that there has been a question addressed to me whether I am a member of the Communist Party. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I will ask you now whether or not you are a member of the Communist Party. 
Mr. KLEIN. All right. Well, I will give the same answer that I have been obliged to give, and my answer, I think, is illuminated by the remarks you have just made. It is quite obvious that, in the view of yourself and the committee, an answer to this question might involve me or incriminate me in some incriminating situation, and consequently I feel that it is my right and also my duty to refuse to answer.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, of course, it might involve you if, as a matter of fact, you have participated in any subversive activities or programs 81595-51-pt. 4-11 1572 INDUSTRY as a member of the Communist Party. I will grant you that is true. No question about that. You see, we have had testimony before our committee that certain Communist cells have even discussed among themselves the matter of getting arms and ammunition in parts of this country to participate in the forceful revolution which is advocated by the Communist Party. Have you ever heard of that being advocated ?
Mr. KLEIN. Have I ever heard of what being advocated ? 
Mr. DoTLE. The forceful revolution by the Communist Party in the United States. SMr. KLEIN. Have I ever heard the Communist Party advocating forceful revolution in the United States ?
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I will leave the question the way you asked it.
Mr. KLEIN. Well, I am trying to-excuse me. I am not trying to ask you questions. I am just trying to understand what it is that I am to answer. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I will repeat it, simplify my question. This committee has had unimpeachable evidence before it that in some parts of the country Communist cells exist in which it has been frankly discussed by the members thereof of ways and means of getting possession of arms and ammunition to use when and if the revolution against the capitalist class came. Now, I assume you are a reasonable Amer- ican citizenMr. KLEIN. Well, I have read magazine articles containing that material.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you ever heard that discussed in the Communist meetings?
Mr. iLEIN. I decline to answer that on the grounds that this ob- viously is a question designed to entrap me into a situation that is absolutely untenable. I can't answer a question of that sort without subjecting myself to the very kind of incrimination that it is my right and duty to avoid. 
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, I fail to see how a frank statement of whatever the fact may be by any witness before this committee is going to involve him in prosecution unless, as a matter of fact, his relationship to the Communist Party was such that he actually had been involved in a subversive program. Under the definition that you read by Mr. Webster and which I wrote out for you, do you see any involvement of a witness before this committee of possible fear of incrimination unless he has been engaged in subversive conduct?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, this is an answer to-this is a hypothetical and speculative question. I would like to ask my counsel's advice before answering it. It seems to me it would be going utterly outside of my realm to answer it. (Witness consults counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I want you to consult your counsel.
Mr. KLEIN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. This committee is always glad to have counsel present.
Mr. KLEIN. I believe that in view of the general context and the time, I must decline to answer that question.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, of course, you heard our distinguished chairman say that you must not do anything before this committee.
Mr. KLEIN. I apologize. I decline-I respectfully decline to answer on the grounds I have already given.  1573 
Mr. DoYLE. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson? 
Mr. JACKSON. During the period of your employment, Mr. Klein, with the United Automobile Workers, as a part of that employment as a representative of the national publication of the United Aircraft Workers, called, I believe, the Aircraft Worker, were you in any way connected with the publication of the Aircraft Worker?
Mr. KLEIN. I don't know of any publication under that name.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you connected with any publication of the United Automobile Workers having to do either with the automobile end of the business or of the aircraft end of the union activities?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, for a short time I was connected with the techni- cal preparation of a weekly newspaper or news sheet known as UAW News.
Mr. JACKSON. Where was that, Mr. Klein?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, that was here in this area.
Mr. JACKSON. In the Los Angeles area?
Mr. KLEIN. Yes. I am sorry. Your question referred to the national Detroit publication?
Mr. JACKSON. My original questionMr. KLEIN. Oh, I see. Well, I misunderstood you.
Mr. JACKSON. Was directed toward the national publication.
Mr. KLEIN. I see. 
Mr. JACKSON. But you were connected with the local publication here in Los Angeles?
Mr. KLEIN. Well, yes; in a technical, editorial way.
Mr. JACKSON. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Any further questions by counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. I failed to call to your attention, Mr. Klein, that two witnesses who appeared here before the committee yesterday identified you and your wife as members of a cell of the Communist Party here in Hollywood. I want to give you the opportunity to either deny or affirm that statement, or make any explanation that you desire to make.
Mr. KLEIN. I see. Who were those witnesses, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Harold Ashe and his wife-former wife-Mrs. Mildred Ashe.
Mr. KLEIN. Well, on the grounds that it might tend to degrade me and to incriminate me, I decline to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to point out that the question of degradation is no defense whatsoever to the failure to answer a question as decided in Walker against Brown by the United States Supreme Court many years ago, and if that is the ground for your refusal, I ask the chairman to demand that you answer the question.
Mr. KLEIN. Well, I will state it simply, then, that I refuse to answer on the ground of the rights assured me under the fifth amendment to the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Do you have one other question?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I have no further questions but I believe that inasmuch as there have been inferences and counter-inferences which bear upon the United Auto Workers and this committee, that it should be said that the CIO, itself, has taken very strong measures toward ridding itself of Communist influence, and in the 1574 course of that activity expelled a number of CIO unions which refused to purge themselves of Communist leadership. I should also like to say that in the course of the Baltimore hearings, this committee was the recipient of an expression of support from organized labor within the Sparrows Point plant. I think that there should certainly be left in the minds of the audience or the minds of the listeners no connotation of any activity by this committee against those elements of organized labor which are American in their activities.
Mr, WooD. Any reason why this witness shouldn't be excused ?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir.
Mr. WOOD. So ordered, and the committee will stand in recess until 10 o'clock in the morning. (Whereupon at the hour of 5:10 p. m., an adjournment was taken until 10 a. m. of the following day.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY-Part 4 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. PUBLIC HEARING A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10 a. m. in room 518, Federal Building, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood (chairman), Francis E. Walter, Clyde Doyle, Donald L. Jackson, Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, investigator; and John W. Carrington, clerk.
Mr. WooD. Let the committee be in order. SLet the record show that there is present of the subcommittee Mr. Walter of Pennsylvania, Mr. Doyle of California, Mr. Jackson of California, Mr. Potter of Michigan, and Mr. Wood of Georgia, constituting the full subcommittee.
Mr. Counsel, are ou ready to proceed ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. Who will you have first?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Martin Berkeley.
Mr. WooD. Are you Mr. Martin Berkeley ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I am, sir.
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God
Mr. BERKELEY. I do.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Berkeley, are you represented by counsel?
Mr. BERKELEY. I am, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Will counsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. WILLIAMS. My name is Edward Bennett Williams, of Washington, D. C., sir.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Berkeley, during the progress of your interrogation you will be permitted at any time you desire to confer with your counsel and counsel will be permitted to confer with you as often as he desires and give you the benefit of any advice, information, or suggestion that he deems appropriate.
Mr. BERKELEY. Thank you, sir. 1575 1576 INDUSTRY TESTIMONY OF MARTIN BERKELEY, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS 