Mr. MOULDER. Yes; the statement which you have prepared will be filed as a part of the committee's record.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name, please, sir?
Mr. LESSNER. Herbert Lessner-L-e-s-s-n-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. MARGOLIS. Ben Margolis, Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNFE. When and where were you born, Mr. Lessner?
Mr. LESSNER. Youngstown, Ohio, April 7, 1911.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. LESSNER. In Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Los Angeles ?
Mr. LESSNER. Since 1937, with the exception of 2 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. LESSNER. Musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you practiced your profession in Los Angeles?
Mr. LESSNER. Since 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to that time where did you practice your profession?
Mr. LESSNEE. I was in New York for almost 7 years, from 1930 until 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. LESSNER. Regular high school and a couple of years in college, varied courses, part of which was psychology, and in which I learned that red blood courses through all people, regardless of color, which gave me quite an education, and I traveled with, I barnstormed all over the country since I got out of school, and learned quite a bit about Negroes and whites and equality of people. And this is something that I have-Mr. SCHERER, Did you learn anything about the Communist Party?
Mr. LESSNER. This is another question.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that the witness be directed to answer the question. He said he has learned all about Negroes and whites and that 3980 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA red blood flows through everybody's veins. I want to know if he learned anything about the Communist Party in his travels.
Mr. LESSNER. Am I finished with the first question?
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Tavenner's question is withdrawn.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. SCHERER. Will you answer my question?
Mr. LEssNER. Then in that case I shall decline to answer for the following reasons: One, my rights and responsibilities to the Constitution are strictly mine to maintain and protect. I have the right to meet or be with anybody or speak or be silent. And this is the first amendment which I use, to refuse to answer. Secondly, as a musician, I feel it necessary to uphold culture and further culture, to do it in my own way, to have the right to do it as an individual as well as in connection with other people and I feel that it is necessary for me to not yield to conformity. Thirdly, as a union man-I have been a union member for over 30 years, almost 30 years, rather-and with our controversy in our union at present, I feel that this committee is coming in at a very timelyat a very time when we don't need any further publicity, and throw in what I call a red herring into our union activities.
Mr. SCHERER. We are trying to get a red herring out of it.
Mr. LEsSNER. I feel it is necessary to uphold and fight to protect union rights and union gains. And fourthly, as a parent and a war veteran, my loyalty has never been questioned by the many neighbors and musicians I work with, the many fellows in the Armed Forces I have met and worked with also.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you tell them that you had been a member of the Communist Party ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. LESSNER. Is your previous question withdrawn?
Mr. SCHERER. No. There are two questions.
Mr. LESSNER. If I could finish-I am just about through-I feel that I am entirely innocent of any subversive activity, or anything that can be pointed to me in that way, and that since I am innocent I will not aid this committee in trying to subvert the Constitution of the United States, and I will not help this committee by appearing as a witness against myself. That is the fifth amendment which I use.
Mr. MOULDER. The next question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become a member of what is known as Branch O of the Northwest Section of the Communist Party, sometimes referred to as the Musicians Branch of the Communist Party?
Mr. LESSNER. Questions such as these, Mr. Tavenner, I will not answer, based upon the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you refuse to answer the question?
Mr. LEssNER. I refuse, that is right. I refuse to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. On the grounds stated?
Mr. LESSNER. That is right.
Mr. TAvENNER. Were you requested to circulate a petition of the Independent Progressive Party of California in 1948 to secure signatures of persons to put that party on the ballot?
Mr. LEssNER. I refuse to answer that on the same basis. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3981
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of such a petition and at the end of which there is an affidavit. The document is marked "Herbert Lessner Exhibit No. 1" for identification only. Do you find your name as the affiant (Document handed to the witness and his counsel.)
Mr. LESSNER. I refuse to answer that on the same basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you sign the name Herbert Lessner, which appears at the bottom of that document (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. LESSNER. I refuse to answer that, the same grounds or reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer in evidence the document marked "Herbert Lessner Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MOULDER. The document as marked is admitted in evidence as requested by counsel. (This exhibit is similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 1, p. 3957, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Reading from the exhibit, it appears that the document bears date the 15th day of February, 1948, and that the affidavit over the name of Herbert Lessner shows that it was Herbert Lessner who solicited the signatures contained thereon.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you wish to deny or affirm the statement made by counsel concerning the document ?
Mr. LESSNER. Is this another document ?
Mr. MOULDER. The same document.
Mr. LEssNER. The same one as was originally shown us ?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes.
Mr. LESSNER. I think I have answered that. 
Mr. MOULDER. Counsel made a statement concerning your name as the signature on the document, and I am simply asking you if you wish to deny or affirm the statement made by Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. LESSNER. No; I don't care to comment on that. (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Communist Party at this time?
Mr. LESSNER. The same question; the same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No questions. 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERE. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. I wish, on behalf of the committee, to reiterate and emphasize our stand insofar as the statement made by you concerning an intraunion dispute The committee has no interest in that dispute it has no knowledge whatsoever, either on the part of any member of the committee or insofar as I am concerned. You are excused as a witness.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I stated to the committee quite early during the course of the hearing that all of those identified as members of the Musicians Branch of the Communist Party had not been subpenaed by the committee. I now desire to introduce in evidence certain documents procured by the staff in the course of its investigation 3982 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA which relate to those persons who have been identified as members of the Musicians Branch but who have not been subpenaed.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question in that connection? Is it contemplated that upon the request of any of these individuals to be heard that they be heard at the earliest possible moment to deny or affirm the allegations contained in the previous testimony?
Mr. TAVENNEE. Yes, sir. That was stated in substance in the opening statement by the chairman. It is the rule of the committee, and the staff will gladly cooperate with anyone who finds himself in that position, where he desires to appear before the committee.
Mr. DoYLE. May I further inquire, Mr. Chairman, is the identification positive as to these persons to whom you are now referring?
Mr. TAVENNER. These individuals have been identified by anywhere from 1 to 3 witnesses during the course of this hearing in public session.
Mr. DoYLE. As members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TAVENNER. As members of Branch O, or what is usually referred to as the Musicians Branch, of the Communist Party.
Mr. MOULDER. As far as that is concerned, the documents to which you are now referring are just as competent for admission in evidence as the others because none of the 6ther documents was supported by any testimony. So the documents which you offer, if there is no objection by the committee, will be admitted in evidence as requested by counsel.
Mr. DOYLE. I think it would be well, Mr. Chairman, to emphasize the point which Mr. Jackson properly brought up, which is to the effect that our rules expressly provide that any person named before this committee, who is not personally present in the hearing room, has the established right and privilege of communicating with the committee in any manner he wishes, and either deny or affirm the reference to the fact that he has been named.
Mr. MOULDER. I understand counsel offers in evidence as a part of the record certain documents at this point in the proceedings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Any objection on the part of any member of the committee ? (There was no response.)
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, the documents are admitted and inserted in the record at this point in the proceedings.
Mr. TAVENNER. 1. I desire to introduce Thelma C. Musick exhibit No. 1. It is a photostaic copy of a petition of the Independent Progressive Party, California, bearing date, the 29th day of December 1947, at the end of which there is an affidavit over the signature of Mrs. Thelma C. Musick, in which it is stated that she solicited the signatures appearing thereon. 2. I also offer Thelma C. Musick exhibit No. 2, which is an Affidavit of Registration by Mrs. Thelma C. Musick, bearing date the 20th day of February 1948, showing affiliation with the Independent Progressive Party of California. 3. I offer as Frances Bloch exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of an Affidavit of Registration bearing date, the 22d day of April 1948, showing her affiliation with the Independent Progressive Party." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3983 4. I offer as Clara J. Altman exhibit No. 1, an Affidavit of Registration bearing date, the 22d day of April 1948, showing the affiliation of Mrs. Carla J. Altman with the Independent Progressive Party. 5. I offer as Mischa Altman exhibit No. 1, Affidavit of Registration of Mischa Altman, bearing date the 22d day of April 1948, showing affiliation of Mischa Altman with the Independent Progressive Party. 6. I offer as Lawrence Goldman exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of a petition of the Independent Progressive Party, at the end of which appears an affidavit over the name of Lawrence Goldman, bearing date, the 14th day of February 1948, of similar character as the other petitions. 7. I offer as Lydia Marcus exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of an Affidavit of Registration bearing date, the 8th day of April 1948, showing Miss Lydia Marcus to be affiliated with the Independent Progressive Party. 8. I offer as Earl Robinson exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of an Affidavit of Registration bearing date of the 7th day of September 1948, showing Earl Robinson an affiliate of the Independent Progressive Party. 9. I offer as Leonard M. Selic exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of an Affidavit of Registration bearing date the 22d day of April 1948, of Leonard M. Selic, showing affiliation with the Independent Progressive Party. 10. I offer as Elizabeth Sugar exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of a petition of the Independent Progressive Party, at the end of which is an affidavit over the signature of Mrs. Elizabeth Sugar, bearing date, the 5th day of December 1948, showing her to be the person who solicited the signatures contained thereon. 11. I offer Alexander Walden exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of Affidavit of Registration bearing date, the 10th day of September, 1950, and showing Alexander Walden to be affiliated with the Independent Progressive Party. 12. I offer Lee Wintner exhibit No. 1, a photostatic copy of the Affidavit of Registration bearing date, the 12th day of April 1948, showing the affiliation of Lee Wintner as an affiliate of the Independent Progressive Party.
Mr. MOULDER. May I say, Mr. Tavenner, the thought occurs to me, before passing upon your request, that this question arose during the course of the hearings before, that all persons whose names appear upon the petitions referred to by counsel are not Communists, or at least there is no testimony or evidence indicating directly or indirectly that they were ever affiliated with or connected with the Communist Party, or any other disloyal or unpatriotic act, on their part. But without some statement or explanation appearing where they are inserted in the record, along the lines I have just mentioned, there might be an injustice to have their names appear in the record unless there is some protection along that line.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I make a suggestion, that in the placing of documents of that class in the record, that we block off the names of all persons who signed them, except those as to whom there has been evidence, sworn testimony before the committee, that they are members of the Communist Party. 3984 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DovUs. I think that certainly would be an essential act, because there certainly is no imputation or inference that any of those people who signed those petitions at the request of the circulators knew that the Communist Party was doing it or that they were Communists. In fact, we have the sworn testimony in this hearing by one or more of the circulators that he did not reveal to the people who signed, the fact that it was being circulated by members of the Communist Party.
Mr. SCHERER. I move that Mr. Tavenner's suggestion be complied with in making up the record.
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered, and with that understanding, the suggestion made by counsel, the documents referred to by counsel will be admitted at this point in the record. (Documents numbered 1 through 12 are similar to Kalman Bloch exhibits Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 3957 and 3960, respectively, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. They are on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. George Kast.
Mr. MOTLDER. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. KAST. I do. TESTIMONY OF GEORGE KAST, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, HUGH R. MANES 