Mr. BURFORD. James Burford.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted that you are accompanied by counsel. Would counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. BRONTON. Leon Bronton, Jr., Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Burford?
Mr. BURFORD. I was born in the United States of America, 1910.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where in the United States? 
Mr. BURFORD. California. 
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you now reside in California 
Mr. BURFORD. I do, sir. A native son. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided continuously in Cali- fornia?
Mr. BURFORD. Oh, most of my life.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation? 1828 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. BURFORD. Well, Mr. Doyle, this question bears upon some phone calls that I received over a period of the last, well, within the last 4 months telling me that unless I violated, this was the demand, not in these terms, I am not quoting the phone call now-The substance of the phone call was unless I violatedMr. SCIIERER. Just a minute, Witness. I am addressing the Chair. I ask for regular order. One question is: What is his occupation. He can either tell us his occupation or take the fifth amendment.
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Doyle, I think this is a very important matter and it has a bearing upon the answer which I am about to give. Now may I answer the question ?
Mr. SCHERER. He can give his answer and then explain his answer if he wants to.
Mr. DOYLE. Do the phone calls have anything to do with this committee ?
Mr. SCHRERE. Not with the committee, but with his occupation.
Mr. BURFORD. It has to do with this committee and with my occupation.
Mr. DOYLE. Let's hear it, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. I object.
Mr. BURFORD. This phone call threatened me. I would be put out of business and the way of putting me out of business was going to be by calling me before this committee.
Mr. DOYLE. Who called you?
Mr. BURFORD. I don't know. It was an anonymous call like often those things are.
Mr. DOYLE. At what place of business did they call you ? You have made a charge against this committee.
Mr. BuRFORD. I was called on my telephone.
Mr. DOYLE. You made a charge against this committee that was pretty serious.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, if the charge has no more substantiation than the unsupported word of the witness that he was called and threatened, it doesn't concern me a great deal.
Mr. BURFORD. For a committee that has taken the kind of unsubstantiated testimony that this has, it is a funny time to start worrying aboutMr. JACKSON. Give me the unsubstantiated testimony. Which one? What testimony do you have reference to, sir? You have volunteered the statement that we have received unsupported testimony. I want to know what it is. In case there is a refusal to answer, I want a direction, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. That is right. Tell us in what case in this hearing we have received testimony that isn't true
Mr. BURFORD. I read the book of Mr. Harvey Matusow.
Mr. JACKSON. That is not an answer to the question. I don't care about Matusow.
Mr. BURFORD. It is embarrassing to you to hear about Harvey Matusow.
Mr. JACKSON. Let's not get away from the question. There is a question pending. You have made the statement that this committee during these hearings has taken unsupported testimony. I want to know what testimony.
Mr. DOYLE. I direct you to answer. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1829 
Mr. JACKSON. I want it on the record.
Mr. BrRFORD. I do not have a copy of the record.
Mr. JACKSON. The copy of the record is being made. I want your answer on the record.
Mr. BURFORD. I do not have a copy of the record in front of me.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you have any proof that this committee has received any unsupported testimony as you have just stated voluntarily ?
Mr. DOYLE. I direct you to answer. We don't accept the answer you gave. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that the committee go back into the record of the testimony of Mr. Harvey Matusow who later said that he hadMr. JACKSON. Just a minute. Don't beat around the bush.
Mr. BURFORD. I am not.
Mr. JACKSON. This is evasive. You said this committee has received unsupported testimony.
Mr. BURFORD. Did this committee receive testimony from Harvey Matusow?
Mr. JACKSON. In this hearing ?
Mr. BUPFORD. I didn't say in this hearing. I said this committee.
Mr. JACKSON. All right. In what regard was the testimony of Mr. Matusow before this committee in error? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. BURFORD. By his own admission.
Mr. JACKSON. NO. Every witness who has been called as a result of the Matusow testimony before this committee has taken the fifth amendment.
Mr. BURFORD. That is my answer.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course the answer is entirely evasive. It was your intention to say that witnesses who have appeared here during this hearingMr. BtrFORD. Don't tell me my intention. I know what my intention is.
Mr. JACKSON. You say, sir, any testimony which you have heard or has been taken before this hearing during this week is unsupported ?
Mr. BURFORD. I have not been here but a short time this week.
Mr. JACKSON. You have been here 2 or 3 days. I have seen you in the corner, which is all right, we are glad to have you here.
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Doyle, I decline to answer any comment on any testimony of any witness before this hearing in this room.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Doyle, I think the question has been adequately covered.
Mr. DOLE. I want to ask one more question on this anonymous phone situation that you blurted out as you first took the stand. What did you do? Did you report it to the police ? If you didn't, why didn't you? You didn't, did you
Mr. BURFORD. No, I did not.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course not.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you report it to the Federal Bureau of Investigation?
Mr. BURFORD. That is your opinion, Mr. Doyle-"of course not." 1830 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. JACKSON. You didn't. Did you report it'to the Bureau?
Mr. BURFORD. I made a statement that Ididn't.
Mr. JACKSON. Why didn't you? Isn't that the act of a law-abiding citizen who is threatened over the telephone ? Isn't the logical thing as soon as the caller hangs up to call the police ?
Mr. SCHERER. His statement in my opinion is pure fabrication.
Mr. DOYLE. This began 3 weeks ago, according to your words.
Mr. BRONTON. I resent the fact that you sit there and call him a liar and you do that when you say, "pure fabrication." He is here under subpena, not to take insults.
Mr. SCHERER. You know the rules of this committee, Counsel.
Mr. BRONTON. I know them very well.
Mr. SCHERER. If you can't abide by them, I will ask that you be cited for contempt.
Mr. BRONTON. I think it is contemptuous when any Congressman calls a witness a liar.
Mr. JACKSON. Why didn't you call the police? If your occupation was threatened, if your life was threatened, isn't the normal thing for an American citizen to do to notify the authorities rather than maintain the alleged threat inside himself as a basis for a speech when he came up here?
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Jackson asked me a question
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. 
Mr. BURFORD. When you ask questions and supply the answers at the same time I don't think there is anything further required.
Mr. JACKSON. I haven't supplied any answer. The question still stands. I would like to have the witness tell me why he didn't notify the authorities that he had been threatened.
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Jackson, I made on oath a statement here as to what happened. I cannot-it is obvious that I cannot prove it. I did not have a tape-recording machine, I do not have anything material to substantiate it. This I would readily say, and readily admit. However, I do say on oath that I received a phone call.
Mr. DoYLE. One or more ?
Mr. BURFORD. I received two.
Mr. DOYLE. All the same day, or how far apart?
Mr. BURFORD. They were a matter of several weeks apart.
Mr. DOYLE. When was the first one ?
Mr. BURFORD. Exact day I do not remember.
Mr. DOYLE. When was the second one
Mr. BURFORD. About 3 or 4 weeks after the first.
Mr. DOYLE. Didn't you make any record of the dates or the hour
Mr. BURFORD. I don't keep a logbook.
Mr. JACKSON. Not when people call to threaten you?
Mr. DOYLE. I would think it would be important as to when people called and threatened you. What phone number did they call you over?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer what phone it was on, Mr. Doyle, because that would be to accomplish it, help to accomplish the purpose that the caller made.
Mr. DOYLE. Didn't you even ask the phone company who called you Didn't you even ask the operator who called you ?
Mr. BURFORD. No operator involved, Mr. Doyle. We have automatic phones in this town. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1831 
Mr. DoLE. Of course. Didn't you even ring the chief operator to find out if she could trace where that phone call came from ? I have done that, you know, and I find it is quite helpful. Let's proceed.
Mr. SCHERER. What is your occupation? 
Mr. BuRFORD. I decline to answer this question under the prerogatives that I have under the Constitution of the United States, a constitution that I have sworn in the past to uphold and to abide by and which I now swear to uphold and to abide by, and which I will in the future.
Mr. DOLE. Do you plead your constitutional privileges? If so, what amendments?
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Chairman, I plead the first, the fifth, that amendment which has to do that a person's rights and property will not be taken away from them without due process of law. I don't know the number of it.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question because how could his occupation of Modern Lithographic Press operator incriminate him? I ask that you direct the witness.
Mr. DOYLE. I want the record to show, Mr. Burford, in view of the Supreme Court decision, which is clear to all of us, we are not accepting the answer as you gave it and therefore I instruct you to answer the question. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. It is obvious he is improperly invoking the fifth amendment and invoking it in bad faith. No basis for invoking the fifth amendment.
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Doyle, this committee has toppled people before this and the Supreme Court has reversed them and slapped this committee down.
Mr. DOYLE. No. You know we have a Supreme Court decision.
Mr. BURFORD. That is good.
Mr. JACKsON. It is in direct line with the Supreme Court injunctions to the committee that this immediate procedure is being followed. The subcommittee is making it entirely clear on the record that we believe that your occupation is a matter of proper identification and we do not accept your refusal to answer for the reason given as being a proper use of the fifth amendment. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. We have copies of the full text of the Supreme Court decisions for the use of any witness.
Mr. BURFORD. I have, too, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. JACKSON. I ask that the direction stand.
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Doyle, in line that this question might tend to imperil my rights under the first and the fifth amendments, I decline to answer.
Mr. SCHERER. Aren't you the owner of the Modern Lithographic Press at 1416 West Seventh Street, Los Angeles, Calif. ?
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Scherer, you are reading that into the record for only one purpose and there isn't anything I can do about it. I am defenseless under this situation. I declined to answer that question for the same reasons that I indicated a moment ago, the first and fifth amendments. 1832 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SCHERER. Is the information we have in our file correct, namely, that you are the owner of the Modern Lithographic Press at 1416 West Seventh Street, Los Angeles, Calif.?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question as previously stated.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. DOYLE. I direct that you answer the question. We don't accept your answer as sufficient.
Mr. SCHERER. Before he answers, it is my opinion under the circumstances that if he doesn't answer that question he is clearly in contempt of this committee, and if he invokes the fifth amendment I intend to move at a later date to cite him for contempt. Now he knows how I feel about the matter.
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Scherer, if for no other reason, my concern for the Constitution of the United States prohibits me from answering this, but also and specifically because any question having to do with the operation of the concern that you mentioned might tend to imperil my rights and privileges under the first and the fifth amendments and I remind this committee again that the Supreme Court has said that the fifth amendment is as much for the innocent, protection of the innocent, as anything else. And by pleading this I in no way stipulate that I have broken any of the laws of the United States.
Mr. SCHERER. Have you refused to tell us whether or not the information we have with reference to your business is correct, because you print at this printing company literature for the Communist Party ? Is that the reason ?
Mr. BURFORD. I refuse to answer that question for the reasons stated previously.
Mr. SCHERER. Do you engage in any other illegal activity at the Modern Lithographic Press?
Mr. BumFoRD. Mr. Scherer, you have rather contradicted yourself. you now ask me if I engage in illegal activity and a moment ago that you were going to cite me for contempt for refusing to answer a question invoking the fifth amendment. There is a contradiction.
Mr. SCHERER. Yes, because when you answered that question you said that I may ask you something about the operation of that company and that gave me an idea. That is the reason I asked you about the operation of this company.
Mr. BU FORD. I want it on the record that I decline to answer on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. DOYLE. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Burford, the committee during the course of this hearing has been inquiring into the activities of the Southern California Peace Crusade organization. It has sought to acquire information as to how its affairs are conducted, and by whom they are conducted. Are you affiliated in any way with the Southern California Peace Crusade?
Mr. BuRFoRD. I decline to answer any question relative to mv affiliation with any organization and for the reasons that I have previously stated.
Mr. JACKSON. I have a question I should like to ask. Are you a member of the chamber of commerce
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1833 
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I am certainly not satisfied with that answer.
Mr. DOYLE. I direct you to answer. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. BURFORD. Would you repeat the question, please ?
Mr. JACKSON. Are you a member of the chamber of commerce ?
Mr. BURFORD. No.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has the Southern California Peace Crusade employed you in any respect in carrying out any of its functions?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with any of the officials of that organization?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not Sue Lawson was secretary of this organization in May 1955 ?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the Southern California Peace Crusade through Sue Lawson as one of its officers draw and deliver a check bearing date of May 9, 1955, payable to Jim Burford in the amount of $45, and if so will you tell us the purpose ? I hand you a photostatic copy of the check for your examination. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. BURFORD. Mr. Chairman, this question directly relates to the freedom of the press and the question of-well, that directly relates to the question of the freedom of the press. I decline to answer for that reason, but I also decline to answer under my rights under the first and the fifth.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you publish a newspaper ? I didn't know freedom of the press applied to a commercial printer.
Mr. BURFORD. You didn't, Mr. Doyle ?
Mr. DOYLE. Not the kind of shop you have.
Mr. SCHERER. May I make a statement, Mr. Doyle ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes.
Mr. SCHERER. I think I have to admit I made a mistake, I think the witness properly invoked the fifth amendment when he refused to answer the question as to his occupation, because it becomes now apparent that there was something about that occupation that might tend to incriminate him if he told us in the beginning, and therefore I acknowledge that I made a mistake and I think he properly invoked the fifth amendment.
Mr. BURFORD. I was going to say there is an interesting piece of history relating to this, at one time people advocated freedom of the slaves that couldn't get things printed because of the kind of community pressure and even the pressure of the law applied against them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me explain to you the reason for asking these questions. The committee wants to find out what type of literature was published by the Southern California Peace Crusade, and if you printed it for them you would be in a position to advise the committee as to those facts. That is the purpose for my inquiring from you about these matters. 1834 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. BURFORD. Well, if I were in your position and wanted to find out what any particular organization printed, I would simply go and get the copies of what had been printed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of course what you would do is subpena the officials of the company who disbursed the information, but if they take the fifth amendment, you must proceed by some other course and that is why I am proceeding through the person who may have printed it.
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer the question because of my rights under the first and the fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Isn't it true that you keep sample copies of the materials you printed for the Southern California Peace Crusade ?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the check in evidence and ask that it be marked "Burford Exhibit 1" for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. So received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a check bearing date of May 17, 1955, payable to the Modern Lithographic Press by the Los Angeles Committee for Protection of the Foreign Born. I will ask you to examine that check and state what it was for.
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer any questions concerning this check for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated with the organization ?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Burford Exhibit No. 2" for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. It will be so received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Burford, in the course of the investigation conducted by the committee, it has been ascertained from the issue of the Daily People's World of June 6, 1951, that there was an article published in that paper entitled "Fight Opens and Communist Ruling." In the course of the article it is stated that a demand was made upon President Truman to urge the Supreme Court to grant a rehearing in the case of the 11 national Communist Party leaders and that that action was taken by the Independent Progressive County Club Council. It was stated in the article that it was the first step in the Independent Progressive Party campaign for freedom for the Communist leaders and repeal of the Smith Act under which they were convicted. Do you recall anything about a meeting of the Independent Progressive Party Council at which those matters were discussed-that is, in June 1951? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question on the same ground as I previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Isn't it a fact that the Independent Progressive Party engaged in a campaign in behalf of the 11 Communist leaders who were convicted under the Smith Act in New York ?
Mr. BURFORD. Are you stating it as a fact
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking you isn't it a fact. 
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer any such question on the grounds of the first and the fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Weren't you a member of the Independent Progressive Party Council in June 19511
Mr. BURroRD. I decline to answer for the same reasons. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1835 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you later in 1952 become a member of the State central committee of the Independent Progressive Party?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. In June of 1951, at the time that the Daily People's World referred to this position of the Independent Progressive Party to which I have referred, were you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question on the same basik that I stated before.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Max Silver, at one time organizational secre tary of the Communist Party for Los Angeles County, and who withdrew shortly after 1945 from the Communist Party, testified before this committee on June 24, 1952. At that time he identified you as having been a member of the Communist Party, and as having been the labor director of the Independent Progressive Party in the State of California. Is there any error in that statement insofar as the reference to you
Mr. BuRFORD. I decline to answer that question and all similar questions under my privileges of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you the labor director of the Independer' Progressive Party in the State of California?
Mr. BURFORD. I believe that is a similar question.
Mr. TAVENNER. No.
Mr. BURFORD. Well, I decline to answer that one, too, then, under the first and the fifth amendments.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you ask that line of questions in order to supplement our information to the effect that the Communist Party was pretty well initiated and took over control of the IPP in many, many places?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, it is in line with Public Law 601 to find out the extent of subversive activities, whether Communist Party or otherwise, and our information is the Communist Party in California generally took over membership and control of the IPP in certain places and certain times. I ought to make that statement to you so you understand why we are asking those questions.
Mr. BURFORD. I think I understand.
Mr. DoYLE. It isn't a matter of your political belief, but it is a matter of finding out the effort of the Communist Party to infiltrate and control the political parties. That is what it is doing now, trying to crawl into the Democratic Party because the IPP didn't qualify itself as a legal party in California. You Californians ought to wake up and realize what is going on. Both young and old people are crowding into both these bona fide political parties because they don't have the IPP any longer as a legal entity, and therefore the Commies can't control a legal political party because the IPP doesn't exist any longer as a legal party. Therefore, it is now going into both political parties.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Burford, I want to go back and ask preliminary questions which I usually ask and have not asked. How long have you lived in Los Angeles?
Mr. BURFORD. Well, I have lived here on and off since about 1930, I believe. 1836 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Since 1930 have you resided in any other place ? 
Mr. BURFORD. Many places.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you lived in Oakland, Calif., during any part of that time?
Mr. BURPORD. Mr. Chairman, I have to say to that question that to the best of my knowledge and belief I have never lived in Oakland, but for a number of years my occupation was a traveling one and it is very difficult for me, it would be very difficult for me to list all of the places that I lived.
Mr. DOYLE. You would know whether you lived there for any length of time or not, 6 months or a year, you wouldn't forget that.
Mr. BURFORD. Well, I have been in the bay area, but whether I have lived in Oakland I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever used any name other than your own?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question under the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. DoYLE. We are satisfied with that answer and I direct you to answer. The United States is entitled to know the people that live within its borders, surely those who have been using some phony name or something of that kind. Congress is entitled to know it. We are investigating the activities of subversive people and subversive groups who are apt to use secret names and other nameswithout making any inference as far as you are concerned.
Mr. BURFORD. I understand that. Anything that has to do with the question, this general line of questioning that has been proceeding here, I will decline to answer under the first and fifth amendments. I so decline.
Mr. DOYLE. On what grounds?
Mr. BUFORD. On the grounds I have just stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you used the name Ron Hillyer? 
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BuaroRD. I decline to answer that for the same reason that I have declined before.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. BURFORD. I decline to answer that question for the same reasons I have stated before.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I have no questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. Burford, you can get your witness fee there if you want it.
Mr. BURFORD. I will donate that to the Red Cross drive, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I think that is fine of you. They need it. (Whereupon the witness was excused.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Anne Pollock. 
Mr. DOYLE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth
Mrs. POLLOCK. I do. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1837 TESTIMONY OF MRS. ANNE POLLOCK, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, NATHAN L. SCHOICHET 