Mr. FIELDING. My name is Jerry Fielding.
Mr. WuEELER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. FIELDING. Yes, sir; I am.
Mr. WISFLER. Would counsel please identify themselves for the record? I Ordered released by the committee September 4, 1956. 5770 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. HrELD. If the committee please, this witness is represented by Held & Brooks, of Beverly Hills, Arthur A. Brooks, Jr., and Benjamin Held.
Mr. WHEELER. The witness is appearing here this morning in response to a subpena?
Mr. FIELDING. Yes, sir; I am.
Mr. WHEELER. Where do you presently reside, Mr. Fielding?
Mr. FIELDING. I reside in Los Angeles.
Mr. VIIEELai. Would you give us a brief r6sum6 of your educational background?
Mr. FIELDING. I was educated in the public schools and high schools of Pittsburgh, Pa. I did not attend the university.
Mr. WHEELER. When and where were you born?
Mr. FIELDING. I was born in 1922 in Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you mind giving us the month?
Mr. FIELDING. June.
Mr. WHEELER. And the day?
Mr. FIELDING. 17th.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you give us a resmnu of your employment background since leaving school?
Mr. FIELDING. Well, I have been employed as an arranger, composer, and conductor in the dance-band field and in the field of radio and television. ir. WHEELER. What is your present occupation?
Mr. FIELDING. I am a composer, arranger, and conductor.
Mr. WHEELER. Are you presently employed?
Mr. FIELDING. Yes, sir; I am. 
Mr. WHEELER. _id by whom?
Mr. FIELDING. I am presently employed by the National Broadcasting Co.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Fielding, are you acquainted with a person by the name of Judy I aymond?
Mr. FIELDING. Well, sir, I respectfully decline to answer that question, and I base my declination on the grounds of the fifth amendment of the Constitution. 
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Chairman, Judith Raymond testified before the committee in executive session on September 11, 1953. In the course of her testimony she testified to the effect that she joined the Communist Party in the late spring of 1945 and severed her relationship with the party in the early part of 1949. I refer to page 26 of her testimony. In the course of her testimony she related to the committee the group of the Communist Party to which she was assigned, and in identifying the individuals who were members of this group:
Mr. WHEELER Do you recall the names of the other members of this group?
Miss RAYMOND I have some of them.
Mr. WEELER. Would you relate the ones you do recall, and also identify them as to their occupation or any other pertinent information that you may have concerning them? M ss RAYiOND Muni Diamond; Bill Wolff, a radio writer; Jack and Mary Robinson, radio writers; Gene Stone, a radio writer and partner of Jack Robinson ; Angela Clarke, actress; Reuben Ship, radio writer; Jerry and Ann FieldingJerry is a musician and composer for radio. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF, AREA 5771 W1-ould you like to comment on this testinmion, Mr. Fielding?
Mr. FIacLDIDN. Well, sir, I would like to state'that I am not a member of the Communist Party or am1y other affiliated or unaffiliated political organization. With regard to Miss-to the witness' testimony, I respectfully decline any further comment on the basis of the fifth amendment.
Mr. WITRELriz. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1952?
Mr. FIELDING. I respectfully decine on the same grounds.
Mr. WsEELR. Do I understand you state you are not a member of the Communist Party today; is that correct?
Mr. FIELDIN1. I stated that I am not a inaiber of the Communist Party.
Mr. AVIIEELEr.Were you a member of the Communist Party on December 15.,1953? That was yesterday.
Mr. FIELDING. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you a member of a radio group of the Communist Party, as described by Judith Raymond?
Mr. FIELDING. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. WHEELER. Are you acquainted with Muni Diamond?
Mr. FIELDING. I decline to answer that question on the same gromads.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Fielding, do you know William Alland?
Mr. FIELDING. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. WHEELER. That is the fifth amendment?
Mr. FIELDINO. The fifth amendment.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Chairman, Mr. William Alland appeared before the committee in executive session on November 23, 1953, and admitted prior Communist Party membership in the Hollywood area, testifying that he was a member of the radio branch of the Communist Party. And referring to page 54, Mr. Alland testified in response to Mr. Tavenner's questions:
Mr TAvFNNE. I think it would be well at this point to tell the committee who were members of this radio group, and in doing so describe their position and activity in the party as well as you can; and also which of them made the effort to have the meeting set at a time convenient to you and made an effort to bring you back into the Communist Party. Well, the radio branch consisted of Pauline Hopkins, Sam Moore,
Mr. ALLAND. Davidson, Virgima Mullen, Stanley Waxman, Jerry Fielding, Reuben Ship, Mlike Gene Stone, Jack and Mary Robinson. Would you like to comment on the testimony of Mr. Alland?
Mr. FIELDINO. I decline to comment on the testimony of Mr. Alland on the grounds of the fifth amendment. However, I will state again that I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Chairman, I see no reason to pursue this further.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask, Mr. Wheeler, to what year were you referring when Mr. Fielding was a member in that group?
Mr. WHEELER Mr. Alland testified that he left the party in January or February 1949, and that was the last group to 'which he was assigned. So it would be in the year 1948.
Mr. DOYLE. I will state this, Mr. Fielding, in asking you these questions: I noticed you pledged your constitutional privilege in not 77436-5--Pt. 11- 2 5772 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA naming anyone, whether or not you knew then, and I can understand that. But, naturally, when you state you are not now a member of the Communist Party, in view of the sworn testimony that we have that you were several years ago a member of the Communist Party, I will state frankly I don't intend to ask you as to who was a member of the Communist Party with you in 1948 and 1949 or 1947, or when you were, if you were. I think, to be fair with you, the form of your answer makes me infer that there was a time when you were a member of the Communist Party. Now, this committee is in search, also, of any recommendation that it might receive from any American citizen as to their thinking in terms of legislation dealing with the subversives. You understand my statement? We are looking for recommendations from patriotic citizens, thinking citizens, to help us understand their views regarding the field of legislation dealing with subversives. Now, whether or not you ever came in touch with any subversive activities any place, either in the group identified or any other grout, have you any suggestion to make to us, Mr. Fielding, in that field? In other words, this is a subcommittee of Congress. Have you any suggestion to make to us? I have never met you in my life, I am sure, and never talked with you. I don't know what your answer may be. But I am just asking you in good faith, have you any suggestion for us, young man? You have an important employment; have you any suggestion to make to us as a congressional committee?
Mr. FiELoiNG. May I say, Congressman, that I have always been and do consider myself a good citizen of this country and a law-abiding citizen. My profession is the music business. I have no recommendations to offer this committee as to legislation on the matters which you mentioned. The Congressman stated that there was an inference in his question, and I believe there is. And for that reason I have to decline further comment on this question on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. Doyn. I know Mr. Jackson would join me in making one further comment to you as a young man. We hope the time will come before too long when, without your feeling any of your conscientious objections, you will come to the point where you, as a young American, will voluntarily say to some constituted authority, whether it is this committee or not, "I want to help you understand the problem of subversive activity in my country to the extent that I am able." One further comment, Mr. Fielding: I feel rather strongly that some of you young men and women who--again I will infer because of the form of your answer, I will infer you were at one time a member of the Communist Party, whether yesterday you withdrew or 2 years ago you withdrew-but there was a time, I infer, when you were a member of the Communist Party. Now, if that is true, and we have sworn testimony by plenty of witnesses that it is true, I want to urge you to get to t e point where, as a patriotic -American citizen, you can conscientiously say to the constituted law, "I may not be in a position to give you names of other men and women who were in the Communist Party with me, but I am now in a position to tell you what I know about that whole problem." COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 5773 Again, I am not obviating the possibility that you will get to the point where you will feel that the safety of your Nation, against the Communist conspiracy, will call upon you to help your Government even by relating names of former associates in the Communist Party if and when you were in it; and I hope that time will come. I am not suggesting that you violate your conscientious scruples. But I have come to the point in my experience where I think there cannot be too many conscientious scruples when we face up to the fact of our own internal security as against the well-known subversive Communist conspiracy to use force and violence. I am not inferring that you advocated that, young fellow. It is fair for me to say that you-I am not inferring that you are advocating that philosophy, but I am saying to you that some top men and women in America, at the time you were a member of the Communist Party, if you were, at that time did advocate, and still advocate, force and violence in connection with their contemplated revolution. I am not taking advantage of you to preach to you; believe me. But I do hope-and I am not criticizing your counsel in whatever way he advised you to answer, either-but I am saying that I hope you will get to the point where you can put the first thing first, which I believe is the internal security of your own Nation. That is all, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Fielding, were you a member of the Communist Party when you entered the hearing room this morning?
Mr. FIELDING. I decline to answer that on the grounds of the fifth amendment. However, sir, I will state again-I will state that I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. Will you be a member of the Communist Party when you leave this conference room?
Mr. FIELDING. I have no intention of joining the Communist Party,
Mr. Congressman.
Mr. JACKSON. Why have you no intention of joining the Communist Party?
Mr. FIELDING. As I stated before to Congressman Doyle, sir, I have been a very busy musician and I intend to continue to be one; and I do not contemplate any organized political activity.
Mr. JAcKsoN. Did you in the past contemplate such organized political activity ?
Mr. FIELDING. Well, sir, I decline to answer that on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. JACKSON. Any reason why the witness should not be excused?
Mr. WnxHEs . No.
Mr. JACKSON. The witness is excused and released from the subpena. INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA-Part 11 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 1956 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE CoxmnriE ON UN-ANiEICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. EXECUTIVE SESSION . A -ubcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to call, at 10: 05 a. m, in room 484 of the Statler Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif., IHon. Clyde Doyle (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Doyle and Jackson. taff member present: Alliam A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. DOLE. The subcommittee will come to order. Let the record show that, for the purpose of this hearing and under authority of Public Law 601, Francis E. Walter, chairman of the full committee, has designated Mr. Morgan M. Moulder, of Missouri; Mr. Donald L. Jackson, of California; and Mr. Clyde Doyle, of California, presiding, as a subcommittee of three. Mr. Jackson and myself, Mr. Doyle, are present. The hearing will proceed. Mlr. WHEELER. The first witness is Miss Judith Poska.
Mr. Do=.. Will you please be sworn? Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give to this subconnittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? Mi s POShA. I do. TESTIMONY OF JUDITH POSKA 