Mr. TAvENNER. Will you state your name, please, sir?
Mr. PAss. My name is Joe Pass.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name.
Mr. PAss. P-a-s-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted that you are accompanied by counsel. Would counsel please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. PESTANA. Frank Pestana, P-e-s-t-a-n-a.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Pass?
Mr. PAss. Chicago, Ill., 1915.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in the city of Los Angeles?
Mr. PAss. I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided there?
Mr. PAss. Since 1942. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you tell the committee briefly what your educational training has been.
Mr. PASs. I attended grade school and high school in Chicago, Ill. I attended Central YMCA Junior College and Herschel Junior College in Chicago approximately 1 year. I attended the University of Southern California for approximately 11/2 years, and attended law school at the University of San Francisco for a year, and approximately another year down here in Southwestern University.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date that you attended the university here?
Mr. PAss. 1948 I attended the University of Southern California. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation or profession?
Mr. PAss. My profession is that of a musician. I have been a professional musician off and on for 20 years.
Mr. TAVENNEn. Were you practicing your profession in this general area, the area of Los Angeles, in 1947 and 1948?
Mr. Pass. To a limited extent. 3712 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you aware during that period of time, 1947 and 1948, of the existence of an organized group of the Communist Party composed entirely or principally of persons engaged in the musicians' profession?
Mr. PASS. It is my considered opinion that you are really not after Communists or communism. You are after conformity, and I refuse to cooperate with this committee to any extent to further what I consider a conspiracy against the American people. The fact that this committee has been traipsing around the country for a number of years and blacklisting various groups and organizations, trying to press conformity with their own narrow point of view-I am not going toMr. MOULDER. As presiding officer and chairman, I cannot permit you to go into a lengthy condemnation of this committee. The people of the United States elected the Members of the Congress, and the Congress has duly established this committee to conduct these hearings and investigate. Your statements are not at all in response to the question, and you are directed to respond to the question.
Mr. PAss. I shall decline to answer that question on the following grounds, and I would like to have leave to answer this question fully in my own way. I will try not to be argumentative.
Mr. MOULDER. If you are going to answer the question, yes; you_ may. You can make any comment or discussion you wish.
Mr. PASS. I would like to correct that I am going to decline to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. You may give your reasons for declining. 
Mr. JACKSON. His constitutional reasons for declining.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I suggest that they should be confined to legal grounds and not to reasons or excuses.
Mr. PASS. I am not going to resort to any excuses. I don't feel I have to resort to any excuses before this committee because my record as an American is, I think, a fine one.
Mr. MOULDER. The point is, do you want to use your personal feelings and opinions of the committee as a basis or reason for declining to answer? Or do you want to use, as a basis, a legal reason?
Mr. PASS. It is very difficult to separate them. However, I will try to keep as close to legal reasons as possible. Now, to begin with, I feel that this committee is createdMr. MOULDER. Wait a minute. We cannot tolerate that. What you feel about the committee has nothing whatsoever to do with your response to the question. Either decline to answer or answer the question.
Mr. PAss. I am going to answer on the basis of the first amendment. And I will go furtherMr. MOULDER. Are you going to answer the question?
Mr. PAss. I am going to decline to answer in my own way on the basis of the first amendmentMr. MOULDER. You don't have to do it in your own way. Just simply decline.
Mr. PASS. I am going to decline to answer because I feelI beg your pardon. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3713 (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. PASS. I am going to give you my reasons to answer. These are my reasons, legal reasons, and I am going to have to insist on giving my reasons my own way.
Mr. JACKSON. We are going to have to insist thatMr. PASS. This committeeMr. MOULDER. Do it in a legal way and conform with the laws of our land.
Mr. PASS (continuing). Blacklisting people, and they result in the cancellation, for example, of the Symphony of the Air tour to Europe. And this invasion of the first amendment-Mr. MOULDER. Just a minute. What was the question ?
Mr. PASS. This is an invasion of the first amendmentMr. MOULDER. What was the question asked him?
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked the witness if during the period of 1947 and 1948 he had knowledge of the existence of an organized group of the Communist Party composed principally of members of the musicians' profession.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you have such knowledge or not ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. PASS. I will further decline to answer this question on the following grounds:
Mr. MOULDER. We do not have enough time to listen to all of your grounds. If you are not goingtoMr. PASS. If you don't have enough time you can call off the hearings right now. You came 2,000 miles to waste the taxpayers' money and you can listen to me for another 5 or 10 minutes.
Mr. MOULDER. We won't tolerate your stalling.
Mr. JACKSON. I am going to stress, if he makes a speechMr. PASS. You are making a speech, too.
Mr. JACKSON. I am going to ask that it be stricken from the record.
Mr. PASS. I resent that. You are making speeches, too.
Mr. JACKSON. The time I have taken all day compared to your last 5 minutes is infinitesimal.
Mr. PASS. You are not on the stand.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you decline? And is the basis for your declining to answer the first and fifth amendments ?
Mr. PAss. I am giving my reasons. I will give them my own way.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you claim the first and fifth amendments?
Mr. PASS. I will claim my own amendments in the order I choose.
Mr. MoULDER. Do you claim any provision of the Constitution for declining to answer?
Mr. PASS. I will answer in my own way.
Mr. MOULDER. Let me ask you this question: Do you claim any provision of the Constitution ?
Mr. PASS. I will not have you tell me how to claim my privileges.
Mr. MOULDER. I am asking you. Are you claiming any privileges of the Constitution ?
Mr. PASS. I am going to claim the privilege of the Constitution, and not be threatened or prompted by the committee in telling me. 3714 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. JACKSON. No one is telling you. We are asking you to please get to your constitutional reasons for declining to answer the questions.
Mr. PASS. That is exactly what I am doing, Mr. Jackson. If you will stop talking, I will give them.
Mr. JACKSON. If you will start talking I will stop.
Mr. PASS. I will start.
Mr. JACKSON. Start now.
Mr. PASS. On the first amendmentMr. MOULDER. Do you use the first amendment ?
Mr. PASS. Yes; I do.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well. Any other reasons?
Mr. PASS. I am going to tell you my reasons under the first amendment because the first amendment allows freedom of association, and freedom(The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. The first amendment speaks for itself. We understand that. You decline to answer behind the protection, or for the reason of the protection of the first amendment.
Mr. Pass. My answer is I am going to decline to answer on the basis of the ninth and tenth amendments, which provides that CongressMr. MOULDER. We know what the ninth and tenth amendments provide. We think the courts of our country know what they provide.
Mr. PAss. If you know what it was, I wish you would stand on it and meet the the letter and spirit of the ninth and tenth amendments. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. PASS. I would like to get to my reasons under the first amendment because obviously this committee doesn't understand the pertinentMr. JACKSON. I ask that all remarks of the witness, comments of the witness following his declaration of the first amendment be stricken from the record.
Mr. MOULDER. You claim the first, ninth and tenth amendments, as I understand, for declining to answer.
Mr. JACKSON. All of them are constitutional grounds. He has every right to take them. He has no right to make a speech haranguing the committee.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed to the next question, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, if he has relied solely on the first amendmentMr. PASS. You feel the committee has a right to make a speech.
Mr. TAVENNER. If he has relied solely on the first and tenth amendmentsMr. Pass. I have not relied solely on them. I am stating my grounds. I am trying to state my grounds in my own way.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will have to ask that the chairman direct the witness to answer because he has not stated any legally sufficient grounds for refusing to answer.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer.
Mr. PAss. May I continue to make my grounds for declining to answer this question?
Mr. SCHERER. If the Chair please, this witness is following a deliberate plan, with the assistance of his counsel here-Mr. PASS. Very able counsel. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3715 
Mr. PESTANA. I object to the remarks about counsel.
Mr. SCHERER. With assistance of counsel- 
Mr. PESTANA. The Congressman knows counsel has a right to advise with his client.
Mr. SCHERER. To deliberately defy- Wait a minute. I'm talking.
Mr. PESTANA. I am appalled at the ignorance of the Congressman in trying to interfere with as basic a right as we have here involved.
Mr. JACKSON. It is quite apparent that counsel is prompting the witness in words as to what his exact answer is to be.
Mr. SCHERER. I heard counsel. I can't help hearing him. You have deliberately told this witness what to say.
Mr. PASS. What is wrong with that? Do you mean to say I can't get advice from my counsel?
Mr. JACKSON. Advice; not the parroted words of your counsel. Advice as to your constitutional rights.
Mr. PASs. I haven't used any wordsMr. SCHERER. Counsel deliberately instructed the witness to defy the ruling of the Chair, and has put words in his mouth.
Mr. PESTANA. I deny that, Mr. Congressman. And I think your interference with the privilege of attorney and client is dastardly and disgraceful on our country. If you heard something you should have informed counsel to speak a little lower so that that right would be preserved.
Mr. MOULDER. I ask the officer in charge keep a very careful check on the people who are demonstrating.
Mr. SCHERER. I am not very proud of some of the members of the bar at times.
Mr. PESTANA. I am. That is very obvious.
Mr. MOULDER. We will have counsel removed from the hearing room if you proceed to argue with members of the committee.
Mr. PEsTANA. I don't wish to argue.
Mr. MOULDER. I myself want to be very fair and very tolerant and very considerate, and have always been on this committee. I don't wish to tolerate stalling and haranguing on the part of the witness or on the part of his counsel. You have a right to confer with your client. You have a right to advise him as to his answers. There is no dispute about that. Let's proceed with the hearing.
Mr. PESTANA. May I respectfully suggest that nine-tenths of the time that has been consumed in this hearing has been taken up by the members of this committee, not including yourself, at least as to my client.
Mr. MOULDER. If you do not cease immediately you will have to be removed from the hearing room.
Mr. PESTANA. I wanted to make that clear.
Mr. MOULDER. We will proceed with the hearing of this witness without benefit of counsel. He will find counsel that will not conduct himself as you are.
Mr. DOYLE. May I just read from our rules so we will thoroughly understand what the area of counsel is. I read from rule 7: The participation of counsel during the course of any hearing, and while the witness is testifying, shall be limited to advising said witness as to his legal rights. Counsel shall not be permitted to engage in oral argument with the committee, but shall confine his activity to the area of legal advice to his client. 77436-56--pt. 7--- 3716 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA And that does not include the putting of words into the mouth of the witness.
Mr. MOULDER. We do not know whether he is putting words in the mouth of the witness or not. I haven't ascertained that. I am not arguing with you about that. You have a right to confer with your client and consult with him on what you see as confidential between you. I am not accusing you of putting words in the mouth of the witness. But let us get along with this hearing.
Mr. PAss. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. PESTANA. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I think I should ask the witness whether he relies on the fifth amendment as one of his grounds for refusal to answer the question I asked him. He can answer that question "yes" or "no." (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. PAss. Pursuant to my previous thoughts, I would like to give my answer in my own way according to how I feel. Now I am going to continue to give my reasons forMr. TAVENNER. This is not a question of how the witness feels.
Mr. MOULDER. That is not responsive to the question.
Mr. PAss. What was the question ?
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question, and we would advise you this, for your own protectionMr. PAss. I realize that. 
Mr. MOULDER. That you are endangering yourself of being in contempt whether you like the proceedings conducted by the committee or whether you approve the committee's actions or investigations or not. Therefore, for your own protection and benefit, it is our duty to advise you that there is a possible danger that by your refusal to answer the question in a sensible and fair way, you might be guilty of contempt. And you are further advised that by going into a lengthy harangue and argument with members of the committee concerning your opinion of this committee, reasons which are in no way connected with the question asked you, might make you guilty of contempt. Therefore, give a direct answer to the question or directly refuse to answer, as you please, by claiming the privileges of the Constitution.
Mr. PAss. I feel I have a right to decline to answer in my own way.
Mr. JACKSON. No, you have no right to decline to answer in your own way.
Mr. PASS. To give any constitutional and legal grounds in my own way.
Mr. TAVENNER. Every opportunity has been given to this witness to claim the privilegeMr. PAss. Would you please repeat the question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. If he desires to do so. He has not done so. I am not going to ask him any further questions.
Mr. PAss. Would you please repeat the question?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. He has been given every reasonable opportunity a man could be given. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3717 
Mr. SCHERER. I move the witness be ordered to leave the witness stand.
Mr. PAss. I wish to state my grounds. I am relying on the fifth amendment, and the reasonMr. JACKSON. I ask that the witness be excused.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused.
Mr. PAss. There is no implication of guilt.
Mr. T.AVENER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to offer into evidence, and have marked as "Pass Exhibit No. 1," an affidavit of registration bearing date of the 27th day of February 1948, in the name of Joseph Pass, which expresses an intention to affiliate with the Independent Progressive Party of California. (This exhibit is similar to Waddilove exhibit No. 1, p. 3664, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records. )
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. I also desire to offer in evidence a second affidavit of registration bearing date of April 20, 1948, of Joseph Pass, in which he states his intention to affiliate with the Independent Progressive Party of California. I ask that it be marked "Pass Exhibit No. 2." (This exhibit is similar to Waddilove exhibit No. 2, p. 3665, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. I also offer in evidence a photostatic copy of an election petition to put the Independent Progressive Party of California on the ballot, at the end of which there is an affidavit signed by a person named Joseph Pass, bearing date the 3d day of February 1948. I ask that it be marked "Pass Exhibit No. 3." (This exhibit is similar to Waddilove exhibit No. 3, p. 3667, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. I also offer in evidence two photostatic copies of membership cards in the East Hollywood Branch of the Independent Progressive Party, bearing date the 16th day of February 1954, and the llth day of February 1953, respectively and ask that they be marked "Pass Exhibits Nos. 4 and 5," respectively, for identification purposes only and to be retained in the committee's files.
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, it is so ordered. Now may I ask counsel to give a very brief statement of all the exhibits admitted in evidence as they relate to the witness who has just been excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. Those exhibits show the participation of this witness in the activities which the first witness this morning described as having been taken by members of the Communist Party at the instance of the Communist Party, namely, that of registration in the Independent Progressive Party, and the circulation of petitions. I want also to make reference to the January 13, 1953, issue of the Daily People's World and to a statement that Joe Pass was one of a delegation to the city of Washington in the Rosenberg case, which was a subject of investigation in Washington within the past year, and 3718 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA in which this committee sought to determine the Communist Party affiliations of many persons active throughout the United States in that movement.
Mr. JACKSON. In light of what we have already experienced here today and what will certainly transpire again later on in the week, I would make the request of the chairman that the clerk of the committee be instructed to communicate with the bar of the city of Los Angeles, and the bar of the State of California, inviting them to send observers to the hearings during the balance of the week.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well. May I ask is that agreeable with the other members of the committee?
Mr. SCHERER. I will second the motion, certainly.
Mr. MOULDER. Without objection, by unanimous request, the invitation, as moved by Congressman Jackson, is ordered to be extended by the clerk of the committee. The committee will stand in recess for 5 minutes. (Whereupon, a short recess was taken, Representatives Moulder, Doyle, Jackson, and Scherer being present.) (At the expiration of the recess the committee was reconvened, Representatives Moulder and Doyle being present.)
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Tavenner, will you call your next witness, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Samuel Berland, B-e-r-l-a-n-d.
Mr. MOULDER. You are Mr. Berland ?
Mr. BERLAND. Yes, sir,.
Mr. MOULDER. Will you hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BERLAND. I do. (Representative Gordon H. Scherer entered the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. MOULDER. It has been suggested by counsel that the witness be sworn in again, while a quorum is present. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. BERLAND. I do. TESTIMONY OF SAMUEL BERLAND, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, GRANT B. COOPER 