Mr. PORTER. John Walter Porter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. RANDLES. I am Anthony V. Randles, member of the State Bar Association of California.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Los Angeles bar?
Mr. RANDLES. I am a member of the State Bar Association of California, the official one, and also of the Los Angeles Bar Association.
Mr. TAVENNER. My question was directed at where you maintain your office, more than anything else.
Mr. RANDLES. Yes. I maintain my office in the city of Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Porter, you have appeared before the Committee on Un-American Activities before this. I believe it was in 1952.
Mr. PORTER. September 30,1952.
Mr. TAVENNER. At that time, you were questioned about the period when you were employed as an attorney by the National Labor Relations Board, and also while you were employed by the War Labor Board in Denver. The committee at that time had not made an investigation regarding the organization of Communist Party cells within those two agencies where you were employed and they did not at that time have the benefit of the information which is now available to the committee through sworn testimony. It is for that reason that we find it necessary to ask you to come back, not to repeat the subject of your former testimony, but to question you further regarding the matters which have developed during the course of a recent investigation.
Mr. MOULDER. In Washington, D. C.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. This investigation began during the year 1955 and resulted finally in the appearance of Prof. Herbert Fuchs as a witness before this committee. Professor Fuchs, I may remind the committee, was solicitor at one time of the National Labor Relations Board in Washington and later was transferred to the War Labor Board in Denver, where he was elevated to a high position. The exact position, I do not recall at this time. As a result of his testimony, hearings were held December 13, 14, and 15, 1955, in Chicago, and during February and March for a period of 3 weeks in Washington. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3991 Professor Fuchs testified that he was a member of the Communist Party from 1934 to 1946. He testified that he was first a member of the Communist Party in New York before coming to Washington, but his first connection with the Communist Party while employed by the Government was in Washington while a member of the staff of a Senate committee. From there he went in 1937 to the National Labor Relations Board. According to his testimony he organized a group of the Communist Party within the staff of the Senate committee and he also organized a group of the Communist Party within the National Labor Relations Board. The testimony that has been introduced during the course of these hearings which I have referred to has established the existence of at least two different organized groups of the Communist Party among the employees of the National Labor Relations Board in Washington. During the course of his testimony, Professor Fuchs identified you as a member of one of the groups of the Communist Party within the National Labor Relations Board in Washington and also the National War Labor Board in Denver. Now, will you tell the committee, please, Mr. Porter, when you first became employed by the National Labor Relations Board ?
Mr. PORTER. Counsel, my recollection of the dates of my employment by various agencies of the Federal Government, perhaps naturally enough, is no clearer today than it was at the time of my last appearance before this committee on September 30, 1952. And I note from looking at the transcript of the testimony at that time that I didn't recall such precise dates then either. I also note that at that time you appeared to have before you a rather complete file containing precisely this kind of information with reference to me. And it would therefore seem to me that the information is much more readily available to you than to me.
Mr. SCHERER. I request that you direct the witness to answer the question to the best of his ability.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. PORTER. May I have the question read, Mr. Chairman ? (The pending question was read by the reporter.)
Mr. PORTER. As I say, Mr. Chairman, I do not now recall precise dates any more than I did 31/2 years ago. My best recollection is that it was sometime during either 1937 or 1938.
Mr. SCHERER. That is close enough.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Professor Fuchs serving as an attorney for the National Labor Relations Board at that time ?
Mr. PORTER. I do not recall as to that time, which, as my previous answer indicates, is somewhat vague in my memory. I do remember that a Herbert Fuchs was employed, as well as a good many others of us, by the National Labor Relations Board at the time that I was employed by the Board in Washington.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Nathan Witt also an employee of the NLRB during that period of time?
Mr. PORTER. He was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall in what capacity?
Mr. PORTER. As I remember, Mr. Witt, at some period during my connection with the NLRB, was secretary to the Board. 77436-56---t. 10- 7 3992 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to his being secretary to the Board, do you recall whether he was the General Counsel for the Board ?
Mr. PORTER. No, I do not. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know him prior to your employment with the NLRB?
Mr. PORTER. Mr. Chairman, at the time of my previous appearance before this body I made it clear that, in my opinion, this committee, by virtue of the resolution under which it operates and the manner in which it has conducted itself, is without authority to investigate or inquire into the private associations and opinions and beliefs and activities of persons living within these United States, including myself. I stated that at that time with a good deal of emphasis because I believed it very firmly. My opinions in that respect since my previous appearance 31/2 years ago have been no little fortified by decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, including the Quinn case and the Ullmann case and the Slochower decision a week or two ago. I regret that the Court has not yet had occasion to deal directly with the question of the powers of this committee. I would have no desire to make a speech. Now, I simply want to say, Mr. Chairman and counsel, that I conceive that this committee is totally without right or authority under the Constitution to compel me to disclose anything with respect to my conscience, my opinions, or my associations which I do not choose to divulge. I think that to recall me, as you have done for this purpose, is a further abuse of the powers which you have arrogated to yourself, but which cannot bear any reasonable or rational relationship to any legislative purpose. And without such a proper purpose, of course, as the Supreme Court indicated in the Quinn case, you have no authority. Therefore, resting on my rights under the Constitution of the United States, and particularly the 1st amendment to the Constitution of the United States, upon the privilege afforded all of us by the 5th amendment of the United States Constitution not to be compelled to become witnesses against ourselves, and by the provisions of the 9th and 10th amendments to the Constitution reserving ultimate sovereignty in this country to the people of the United States, I decline to answer that question. And I shall similarly decline with respect to similar questions.
Mr. MOULDER. May I suggest, if you do so elect to decline to answer any other questions propounded to you by counsel, would you prefer to state that you reassert the same reasons which you have just stated ?
Mr. PORTER. I think that is a useful suggestion; yes, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, how you obtained your employment with the National Labor Relations Board?
Mr. PORTER. I really don't remember, Counsel. I am sure that I made an application for employment. But the details associated with it are gone from my memory.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Mr. Witt play any part in your selection as a member of the staff of the NLRB ?
Mr. PORTER. I have no way of knowing about that.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you know Mr. Witt COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3993 
Mr. PORTER. I believe that is the question asked me before by counsel, sir.
Mr. SHERER. I am asking at this time.
Mr. PORTER. And I make the same answer that I made before to that question.
Mr. MOULDER. That is, you decline to answer for the same reasons?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer upon the same grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Mr. Witt known to you to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. PORTER. To that question I decline an answer upon the same grounds and for the same reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you aware of the existence of more than one organized group of the Communist Party among the employees of the NLRB?
Mr. PORTER. Without accepting the statement, the formulation seeking to establish a fact not in evidence, I decline to answer that question, upon the same grounds and for the same reasons.
Mr. SCHERER. When you made an application for employment with the National Labor Relations Board, did you not state in your application that you were not a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. PORTER. I don't now recall the terms of the application. If it were shown to me, as I think it was on my previous appearance, the application would answer that question.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you answer a question "no," which asked whether or not you belonged to any organization that sought the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force and violence?
Mr. PORTER. As the transcript of the hearings of September 30, 1952, at pages 3950 and following, will show, that is true.
Mr. SCHERER. At the time you signed that application and gave that answer to that question, were you a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question upon all of the grounds heretofore given.
Mr. SCHERER. When you signed that applicationMr. PORTER. May I, sir, have the courtesy of an opportunity to complete my answer before you begin another question; and may I have the answer read back as far as I got? (Whereupon, the record was read by the reporter as follows:) I decline to answer that question upon all of the grounds heretofore given. 
Mr. PORTER. I am sorry. I thought I hadn't completed it.
Mr. SCHERER. When you made that application, did you tell the truth?
Mr. PORTER. I am looking now in the transcript of the hearingsMr. SCHERER. Irrespective of what you testified to previously, did you tell the truth when you made application for employment with the Government of the United States
Mr. PORTER. I would like to make the same answer as I made before with respect to that same question.
Mr. SCHERER. That would be helpful, if you made the same answer, I am sure.
Mr. MOLDErR. Is that all, Mr. Scherer? 3994 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SCHERER. No. He is looking to see how he answered that question the last time, if it was asked. I was not a member of the committee then.
Mr. PORTER. The answer to this question which was asked me before and is now repeated, is now as it was then, that my statements on my application were true so far as I knew or understood at that time and now know or understand.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you understand at that time that the Communist Party, or Communist conspiracy, was dedicated to the overthrow of this Government by force and violence, if necessary
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question upon all of the grounds heretofore stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly the nature of your duties while employed by the NLRB ?
Mr. POSTER. I was employed as an attorney.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did your work require you to become closely associated with Mr. Herbert Fuchs ?
Mr. PORTER. In the work of the Board, not as I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated with him in any other work?
Mr. PORTER. As to that, I decline to answer upon all of the grounds and for all of the reasons I have stated.
Mr. SCHERER. The fact is you were associated with him in the work of this Communist cell within the National Labor Relations Board, composed exclusively of United States Government employees. Is that not correct, Witness?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer, Congressman.
Mr. SCHERER. In other words, you feel, to answer my question might tend to incriminate you ?
Mr. PORTER. I feel that to answer your question would be to surrender rights which the Constitution of the United States accords to me and which this committee, if it were not subverting the Constitution, would fight for. And I call to your attention, Congressman, since you have raised the point, that the Supreme Court of the United States on April 9,1956, in the Slochower caseMr. SCHERER. I am very familiar with the Slochower case.
Mr. PORTER. Said just this, 2 or 3 sentences, which I want to emphasize to you, sir: At the outset, we must condemn the practice of imputing the sinister meaning to the exercise of a person's constitutional right under the fifth amendment. The privilege against self-incrimination- 
Mr. SCIERER. We have allowed you to invoke the fifth amendment. You have invokedMr. PORTER. Would you allow me to finish what I am saying? I will not take much of your time. The privilege against self-incrimination would be reduced to a hollow mockery if its exercise could be taken as equivalent either to a confession of guilt or a conclusive presumption of perjury. As we pointed out in Ullmann a witness may have a reasonable fear of prosecution and yet be innocent of any wrongdoing. The privilege serves to protect the innocent who otherwise might be ensnared by ambiguous circumstances- and there is a citation there, Dean Griswold's book, called The Fifth Amendment Today, which I commend to the members of the committee.
Mr. SCHERER. I am not drawing any inference as to your member- ship in the Communist Party by your refusal to answer that question COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3995 and invoking the fifth amendment. I am relying upon the sworn testimony before this committee stating you were a member of the Communist Party. So I am not inferring anything from your invocation of the fifth amendment at this time. The decision is not applicable.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Mortimer Riemer, R-i-e-m-e-r, an attorney for the NLRB ?
Mr. PORTER. I really don't remember as to that, Counsel, so far as the NLRB is concerned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Allan Rosenberg, who I believe became assistant to Mr. Witt, and who, for a while-Mr. PORTER. No doubt I was, if he had that capacity at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any association with him in the Communist Party ?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer as to similar questions previously put to me on the same grounds, I refuse to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Ruth Weyand, W-e-y-a-n-d, an attorney for the NLRB ?
Mr. PORTER. I believe so. I knew probably all, or certainly most of the people who worked for the NLRB at the same time that I did in the same office.
Mr. SCHERER. Isn't Ruth Weyand the woman attorney who has been identified before this committee under oath as a member of the Communist Party, and who argued most of the important cases for the Government before the Supreme Court of the United States?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, that is true.
Mr. PORTER. A very able lawyer.
Mr. SCHERER. A very able Communist, too. I can understand now some of the rulings of the NLRB with the infiltration that took place in the National Labor Relations Board over a period of years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she known to you to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer the question upon the grounds heretofore stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with David Rein, R-e-i-n?
Mr. PORTER. Was he employed at the same time that I was?
Mr. TAVENNER. He was a lawyer for the NLRB.
Mr, PORTER. At the same period?
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking you that question.
Mr. PORTER. Well, unless you will assist me, Counsel, then I will simply decline to answer that question upon the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will assist you to this extent, that I do not recall what Mr. Rein testified to regarding the time of his employment.
Mr. SCHERER. He was employed at the same period Ruth Weyand was employed by the National Labor Relations Board, and he has been identified by 2 or 3 witnesses as a member of a cell of the Communist Party composed exclusively of employees of the National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. TAVENNER. I was not present when he testified but I did interrogate Professor Fuchs who identified him as a member of the same group of the Communist Party of which you were a member. Does that serve to refresh your recollection ? 3996 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer I previously made, Counsel. Let me say that so far as my acquaintance through my employment with fellow employees, whether lawyers or nonlawyers, I am willing to answer, I choose to answer your questions; as to associations and acquaintances and the like, outside of my employment in my private capacity as a citizen, exercising the rights of citizenship, I say that this committee has no right to inquire. I will not assist in violating those rights for anyone, including myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Martin Kurasch, K-u-r-a-s-c-h?
Mr. PORTER. I recall him as a fellow attorney at the National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know him as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer upon the grounds already stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Joseph Robison, R-o-b-i-s-o-n?
Mr. PORTER. I remember him, as well as many others, as fellow employees at the NLRB.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember him as a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer and decline to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Woodrow S-a-n-d-l-e-r?
Mr. PORTER. You mean as an employee of the NLRB ? Sandler, 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. PORTER. I actually don't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall having known him?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question upon the grounds already stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Jacob H. Krug, K-r-u-g?
Mr. PORTER. As a lawyer at the Board ?
Mr. TAVENNER. In any capacity.
Mr. PORTER. To that question I decline to answer on the grounds already stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party, to your knowledge ?
Mr. PORTER. Same answer. Is that sufficient, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes. I think by making reference to your previous answer is sufficient to decline to answer and claim the privilege under the Constitution.
Mr. PORTER. Thank you. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Harry Cooper?
Mr. PORTER. At the Board?
Mr.TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. PORTER. I don't recall him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know him as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer as to the same question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know him in any other capacity?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Frank Donner, D-o-nn-e-r? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3997 
Mr. PORTER. At the Board?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. PORTER. I don't remember him.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not remember ever having met Frank Donner?
Mr. PORTER. At the Board?
Mr. TAVENNER. At any time?
Mr. PORTER. You are asking a different question now, is that right?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, I just asked you the question whether you had ever met Frank Donner.
Mr. PORTER. Your previous question was limited, as a result of my inquiry, as I understood it, Counsel, to acquaintance as an employee of the NLRB. And I made the answer to that question. You are now asking me if I knew him in any other connection. I have already stated my position with respect to such questions. I adhere to it. I decline to answer upon the grounds already given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask that the witness be directed to answer the question, which was this: Have you ever met Frank Donner ? He has not answered the question.
Mr. MOULDER. As requested by counsel, the witness is directed to answer the question. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. PORTER. I think that I did answer that question, Mr. Chairman. However, to save time and avoid the necessity of rereading the record, I now decline to answer that question upon all the grounds I have previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever met Edward Scheunemann, S-c-h-e-u-n-e-m-a-n-n ?
Mr. PORTER. Asked in that form, I decline to answer the question upon the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated with him in work at the NLRB ?
Mr. PORTER. I believe so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated with him in work in Denver when you were employed by the National War Labor Board?
Mr. PORTER. I think he was employed there at the same time, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is there any uncertainty in your mind about that?
Mr. PORTER. Yes. It is a little vague to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know him as a member of the Communist Party while you were working for the National War Labor Board in Denver?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer as to the previous question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Bertram Diamond, D-i-a-m-o-n-d ?
Mr. PORTER. Do you care to limit the question?
Mr. TAVENNER. No.
Mr. PORTER. I don't care to answer it for the same reasons already stated.
Mr. SCHERER. It wasn't a question of whether he cares to. Does he decline to answer for the same reasons as stated ? I ask you to direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer the question on the grounds stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the testimony of Professor Fuchs, Victor Perlo was the Communist Party member on a higher level to 3998 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA whom he reported in connection with the activities of the Communist Party within the NLRB. He testified that on at least one occasion Victor Perlo appeared before his group of the Communist Party organized within the National Labor Relations Board. Did you ever attend a meeting of any group of individuals while you were employed by the National Labor Relations Board which was addressed by Victor Perlo?
Mr. PORTER. I refuse to answer that question upon the grounds I have previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Victor Perlo?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Another person to whom the cell in the NLRB was responsible was Arthur Stein, according to the testimony of Professor Fuchs. Were you acquainted with Arthur Stein?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer as to the preceding question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of a Communist Party group organized within and consisting of employees of the National Labor Relations Board?
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer as to the preceding question.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to your former testimony, you were employed by the National War Labor Board in Denver between March 1944 and April 1945. Will you tell us, please, the circumstances under which you obtained that employment?
Mr. PORTER. 'The employment by the Regional War Labor Board at Denver?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. PORTER. All I recall is that I transferred from the Office of Price Administration in San Francisco, as I have previously testified here, to the Regional War Labor Board staff in Denver.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who assisted in having your assignment made effective ?
Mr. PORTER. I don't know what your question means, Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you solicited by the National War Labor Board to take employment there, or did somebody intercede in your behalf for your employment ?
Mr. PORTER. You have asked a couple of questions. To save time here, I would say that with respect to similar questions before, at this appearance, and also at my debut before the committee I find my memory quite scanty on these details which seem so fascinating to you.
Mr. SCHERER. Whether they are fascinating or not, either answer to the best of your ability or decline to answer.
Mr. PORTER. I am endeavoring to answer the question, Congressman. And I think we will get to the answer a lot quicker if I am not interrupted.
Mr. SCHERER. If you don't make a speech every time, we will get to the answer. You are a lawyer and you know how to answer these questions. And when you decline to answer, that is all.
Mr. PORTER. If you want me to decline-Mr. SCHERER. What is fascinating to Mr. Tavenner, or what may not be fascinating to him, certainly is not a proper answer. You are a member of the bar. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3999 
Mr. PORTER. What strikes me about that, Congressman, is that these questions aren't proper questions from Mr. Tavenner, who is also a member of the bar.
Mr. SCHERER. That is your opinion.
Mr. PORTER. That is my opinion. 
Mr. SCHERER. I can expect that from a man in your position, who has been identified as a member of the Communist Party. 
Mr. PORTER. You can expect it from anyone who really believes in the guaranties of the first amendment to the Constitution, Congressman, and who really believes and practices what the Constitution says when it secures freedom of conscience and of association to everyone.
Mr. SCHERER. We can soon end this. Professor Herbert Fuchs identified you as a member of the Communist Party while you were employed both by the National Labor Relations Board in Washington and while you were employed by the War Labor Board in Denver. When Professor Fuchs testified before this committee under oath concerning you in that respect, was he telling the truth?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question upon the grounds heretofore stated, just like similar questions.
Mr. SCHERER. All right.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee's investigation shows that the following persons who had worked together in the NLRB in Washington were employed in the National War Labor Board in Denver: John W. Porter, Martin Kurasch, Edward Scheunemann, and Herbert Fuchs. Can you give the committee any explanation of how this group who had been associated together in Washington happened to become employed at the same time and at the same place by the National War Labor Board in Denver ?
Mr. PORTER. I suppose that all four were hired at about the same time. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That is quite obvious from what I stated. My question was whether or not you know of any circumstances which would indicate how they happened to be employed at the same time and at the same place.
Mr. PORTER. Even the circumstances of my own employment by the Board in Denver, as I have already indicated, are vague in my memory, and I have no knowledge about the employment of others.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you confer with any of those people I have just named prior to your employment with the War Labor Board ?
Mr. PORTER. With reference to my employment ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. PORTER. I doubt it. I was in San Francisco. I don't think any of them were.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you correspond with them or did you confer with them?
Mr. PORTER. I really do not recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you confer with Philip Reno by any means of communication relative to your employment?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question on the grounds already stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know Philip Reno in Washington while you were employed by the National Labor Relations Board. 4000 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. PORTE. I make the same answer as to the previous question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he play any part in procuring your employment in Denver ?
Mr. PORTER. You would have to ask him.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking you. 
Mr. PORTER. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not know ?
Mr. PORTE. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you confer with him about it ? 
Mr. PORTER. I make the same answer.
Mr. SCHERER. Wait a minute. The same answer was he doesn't know. Is that the same answer?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer upon the grounds already stated with respect to the same question.
Mr. TAVENNER. By that do I understand you do not know whether he was successful in procuring your employment with the War Labor Board?
Mr. PORTER. Would you state that again?
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you read him the question ? (The pending question was read by the reporter.) (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. PORTER. The question assumes he had something to do with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he? 
Mr. PORTER. I have already answered that question. I do not know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Philip Reno employed by the National War Labor Board, in Denver ?
Mr. PORTER. I really can't recall. He may have been. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with him while you were living in Denver ?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question upon the grounds as I have given with respect to similar questions as to my associations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party, to your knowledge?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer it on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Gerald J. Matchett, M-a-t-c-h-e-t-t?
Mr. PORTER. Are you limiting the question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No.
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he employed by the National War Labor Board, in Denver, at the time you were employed there?
Mr. PORTER. I believe so. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Lawrence Raymond LaVallee, L-a-Va-l-l-e-e
Mr. PORTER. Is that question limited?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO. 
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question upon the grounds already stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he employed by the National War Labor Board?
Mr. PORTER. Would you reword the question, Counsel? Who are you asking me about now?
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Mr. LaVallee employed by the National War Labor Board, in Denver, while you were employed there? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4001 
Mr. PORTER What was the name again?
Mr. TAVENNER. Lawrence Raymond LaVallee. 
Mr. PORTER. Well, as I stated with reference to the NLRB in Washington, I suppose that I knew-and this would be even more true in the case of the Board, Regional War Labor Board, in Denver, which was a relatively small staff-I suppose that I knew everybody at least by name, but I don't now recall all of the names. My answer to the question is: I do not remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Dwight Spencer employed by the National War Labor Board, in Denver, while you were employed there ?
Mr. PoRTE. He was. 
Mr. SCHERER. Have all of these persons you are mentioning either been identified under oath as members of the Communist Party or have they admitted membership in the Communist Party?
Mr. TAVENNER. All of these persons have been identified by Professor Fuchs as members of the Communist Party group in Denver. Did you know Dwight Spencer as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer the question upon the grounds already stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Arlyne Plumb, P-1-u-m-b, an employee of the National War Labor Board while you were so employed?
Mr. PORTER. I believe she was one of the employees of the Board; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. PORTER. I refuse to answer that question upon the grounds given.
Mr. TAvENNER. Do you recall what position Prof. Herbert Fuchs had with the National War Labor Board, in Denver ?
Mr. PORTER. I recall two positions that he had. One was director of the Disputes Division, as I remember the title, and the other was vice chairman, I believe, public member of the regional board.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell the committee how any of the individuals about whom I have asked you received their employment with the National War Labor Board, in Denver ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. PORTER. Since that question is so broad, Mr. Chairman, I decline to answer it upon the grounds previously stated.
Mr. SCHERER. Just a minute. Are you refusing to answer the question on the basis that it is so broad, or that the answer might tend to incriminate you? Which one?
Mr. PORTER. On the grounds that I have already stated with respect to other questions which I have declined to answer.
Mr. SCHERER. That is on the basis of the 1st, 5th, 4th and 10th amendments, then
Mr. PORTER. Ninth and tenth.
Mr. SCHERER. All right; 9th and 10th. One of the grounds being, then, that your answer might tend to incriminate you, which we recognize as a proper answer. 
Mr. PORTER. And also that the question could not-serve any proper legislative purpose, a limitation which bears directly upon the operations of this committee. 4002 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SCHERER. I just want to get the record straight that you were refusing to answer the question on the basis of the amendments and not because the question was too broad.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, in view of the attorney's observation that counsel's question could not serve any legislative purpose, may I make this observation: Of course, it could serve a legislative purpose if we discovered that members of the Communist Party conspiracy were seeing to it that other Communists got into the employ of the United States Government, which they are trying to overthrow. That is the reason it could serve a legislative purpose, Mr. Porter.
Mr. SCHERER. Not only could, but it has, Mr. Doyle. The infiltration took place into 51 agencies of the Federal Government. Our most vital secrets were stolen and sent to Russia. And as a result, we have passed 43 pieces of legislation, or recommended administrative changes which have been adopted as a result of the recommendations of this committee over the past few years.
Mr. MOULDER. Let's proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. DoYLE. May I make one further comment, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Not only that, but the record shows in uncontradicted manner, all over the country, that the philosophy and ideology of the practice of the Communist Party is inconsistent and diametrically opposed to the interests and policies and ideologies of patriotic American organized labor. Therefore, it is very dangerous to allow Communists to get into control of the staff dealing with labor in the United States, because they destroy organized labor as patriotic American labor men know it, and subvert the American labor movement to the purpose of the Communist'conspiracy wherever they can.
Mr. PORTE. I never observed this committee, if I may say so, Mr. Chairman, exhibiting any great concern for the interests of organized labor.
Mr. DOYLE. You should read and keep your eyes and ears open, then.
Mr. MOULDER. May I caution the people who are present in the hearing room, of my previous announcement in the opening of the session this morning; that is, to respectfully ask you to make no demonstrations or expressions which would disturb the orderly procedure in the hearing of the witnesses before this committee. However, I do feel, Mr. Counsel, that I should say to Mr. Porterand I am sure it applies to other members of the committee-that even though I do not represent what is generally referred to as an organized labor congressional district, but one which is predominantly agriculture, I have consistently and on all occasions voted for and supported all of the legislation proposed and submitted by organized labor, and I sincerely believe in the rights and privileges and objectives of organized labor.
Mr. PORTER. I am happy to hear that, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Porter, did you recommend any of the persons about whom I have inquired for employment in the National War Labor Board in Denver?
Mr. PORTER. Recommend to whom ?
Mr. TAVENNER. To anyone.
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question on the grounds already stated. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4003 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Philip Reno, to your knowledge, recommend the appointment of any of these persons about whom I have inquired
Mr. PORTER. I decline to answer that question upon the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. I have a couple.
Mr. Porter, being a member of the California bar the same as I am, I presume you are a member of the American Bar Association also?
Mr. PORTER. No; I am not.
Mr. DOYLE. We all know what the American Bar Association is. Therefore, I want to read just one paragraph from a brief filed in the Supreme Court of the United States by the American Bar Association.
Mr. PORTER. Would you give the name of the case in which that was filed, Congressman?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. Communist Party of the United States of America v. Subversive Activities ControlBoard. No doubt you are familiar with it.
Mr. PORTER. Yes, not decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.
Mr. DOYLE. That is right. I want to read a paragraph of this beYou cause I think it is pertinent. You are a lawyer, and so am I. question the duty of Congress, you question the jurisdiction of Congress, you question the validity of the resolution under which we operate. I read at page 4 for your attention.
Mr. PORTER. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. You have the decision there. Read with me. Congress has a duty and the power to enact laws to safeguard the security and welfare of the Nation. There is no purpose or power in the Government more fundamental than the protection of the Nation from invasion, domination or subversion. The duty and the power were specifically vested by the people in our Federal Government by constitutional mandate. The words of the preamble "insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, * * *" were supported by the specific grants of powers in article I, Section 8. To amplify those express powers, the Constitution further provided Congress with the general power "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any department or officer thereof." The power of Congress to protect our people embraces every phase of national security. The duty of self-preservation must be exercised within the framework of the Constitution. The duty and the power of the Congress have well been restated by this Court in Dennis v. United States (341 U. S. 494), by Chief Justice Vinson at page 501; by Justice Frankfurter at page 519. There can be no individual rights or freedoms without national security. In the light of existing conditions the Congress would have been derelict in its duty had it not enacted legislation within its power deemed by it adequate to protect the national welfare. The country was entitled to protection-not alibis or epitaphs. Where no constitutional or statutory provision is violated, the courts are no more immune from the duty to safeguard the Nation than is the Congress or the President. I recognize that that is not dealing with the subject specifically of congressional investigations. Now, may I invite your attention to the fact that, since you quoted or referred to the case of Quinn v. UnitedStates- 4004 COMMiNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. PORTER. Before you do that, Mr. Doyle, could I call your attention to something from another amicus brief in the same case before the Supreme Court of the United States?
Mr. DOYLE. Let me finish my statement. I am referring to the American Bar Association, which is the national organization of American lawyers.
Mr. PORTER. It is a national organization, Mr. Doyle. I am sure you know that there are a number of others, including the National Bar Association.
Mr. DOYLE. Yes.
Mr. PORTER. Which, unfortunately, due to the undemocratic policies of the American Bar Association, had to be formed by Negro lawyers in the United States who were not admitted to membership in the American Bar Association. And there is also the National Lawyers Guild. There are also national organizations of women attorneys. I think it is quite misleadingMr. DOYLE. Just a minute.
Mr. SCHERER. Will you yield for one question, Mr. Doyle? Do you belong to the National Lawyers Guild?
Mr. PORTER. May I be permitted to finish what I was saying?
Mr. DOYLE. I didn't go into those subjects and I want to finish my statement. I went into one subject-what the duty of Congress was under the Constitution. 
Mr. PORTER. I simply want to point out that the American Bar Association is not the national lawyers' organization. them. It is one of 
Mr. DOYLE. In my book it is the organization.
Mr. MOULDER. May I suggest, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Scherer, and the witness and everyone, let us avoid, if we can, any arguments concerning bar associations and decisions of the courts. The witness has been on the stand for an hour and 15 minutes. I hope we can proceed as quickly as possible.
Mr. DOYLE. Since this witness has referred to a certain decision, I want to read one paragraph from it. The case referred to is Quinn v. U. S., decided May 23, 1955. The court, at page 5 thereof, said this: There can be no doubt as to the power of Congress by itself or through its committees to investigate matters and conditions relating to contemplated legislation. This power, deeply rooted in American and English institutions, is indeed coextensive with the power to legislate. Without the power to investigate-including, of course, the authority to compel testimony, either through its own processes or through judicial trial-Congress would be seriously handicapped in its efforts to exercise its constitutional function wisely and effectively. I read the second paragraph on page 5: But the power to investigate, broad as it may be, is also subject to recognized limitations. It cannot be used to inquire into private affairs unrelated to a valid legislative purpose. Nor does it extend to an area in which Congress is forbidden to legislate. 
Mr. PORTER. There is more to that paragraph, Mr. Doyle, which is really a part of the same thought. Would you read it?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes; I will read it.
Mr. PORTER. Thank you. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4005 
Mr. DOYLE. I read the part of the second paragraph which has been quoted by a certain alleged committee that is attacking this committee. That is the reason I stopped at that point, Mr. Porter. Similarly, the power to investigate must not be confused with any of the powers of law enforcement; those powers are assigned under our Constitution to the executive and the judiciary. Still further limitations on the power to investigate are found in the specific individual guaranties of the Bill of Rights, such as the fifth amendment's privilege against self-incrimination which is in issue here. (End of quote.) 
Mr. PORTER. Thank you. 
Mr. DOLE. I stopped at that point because there have been misrepresentations throughout the Los Angeles area by an alleged committee Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms, to the effect of advertising that this decision was a unanimous one. Manifestly there were two dissents. I wish now to call attention to the fact that we are operating under Public Law 601, the 79th Congress. That is the resolution, I take it, to which you referred. In my concluding statement at this point, in view of your observation, I have taken the position, and I still take the position, that I recognize the right and I will fight for the right of every American citizen to think what he pleases, to be what he pleases, to write what he pleases, to pray the way he wants, and to live the way he wants. But they have to do it within the four corners of the Constitution of the United States. And that is what the Communist Party of the United States does not do.
Mr. PORTER. You can't have it both ways, Mr. Doyle. You can't be a member of this committee and participate in its activities and carry out what you say you believe in the statement you just made.
Mr. DOYLE. I have been doing it and I feel pretty good about it. I think I have uncovered or helped uncover some dangerous people and dangerous programs that are designed to defeat the constitutional Government of my country.
Mr. MOULDER. May we proceed? Have you any questions, Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. Just one question. You mentioned the National Lawyers Guild. Are you a member of the National Lawyers Guild ?
Mr. PORTER. I certainly am.
Mr. SCHERER. It has been declared a Communist-front organization, has it not, and been cited ?
Mr. TAvENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. SCHERER. That is all. 
Mr. TAVENHER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. You are excused as a witness, Mr. Porter. You may, if you so desire, claim witness fees with the clerk who sits immediately behind you.
Mr. PORTER. May I make one brief statement in reply to Congressman Scherer's characterization of the National Lawyers Guild which ismisleading?
Mr. MOULDER. We want to expedite the hearings as rapidly as possible, Mr. Porter. You are now excused as a witness. The committee will stand in recess for 5minutes. (Whereupon, a short recess was taken, there being present Representatives Moulder, Doyle, and Scherer.) 4006 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA (The committee was reconvened upon the expiration of the recess, there being present Representatives Moulder, Doyle, and Scherer.)
Mr. MOULDER. Will the people in the hearing room come to order and be seated as quickly as possible. Would you please call your next witness, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Jessica Rhine Wildman. Will you come forward, please
Mr. MOULDER. Will you hold up your right hand and be sworn? Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you Godt
Mrs. WILDMAN. I do. Mr. Chairman, may I ask that you summon my attorney, please, Mr. Margolis?
Mr. MOULDER. Is Mr. Margolis here ? Proceed, Mr. Tavenner. TESTIMONY OF JESSICA WILDMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, BEN MARGOLIS 