Mr. HOUSTON. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have a middle name ?
Mr. HOUSTON. John Waters Houston.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted that you are not accompanied by counsel, Mr. Houston. 
Mr. HousTON. No, I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee desires to make it plain that a witness has the right to have counsel with him if he desires, or the right to consult counsel at any time during the course of his testimony should he so desire. You understand that, do you not?
Mr. HousTON. I understand.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Houston?
Mr. HousTON. I was born in Bozeman, Mont., September 1908.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mr. HOUsToN. Yes, I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. HOW long have you lived in the State of California
Mr. HOUSTON. I have lived in California since 1941.
Mr. TAVENNEL What has been your principal occupation or trade
Mr. HOUSTON. My principal occupation I would say would be in the educational field as a teacher.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been?
Mr. HousToN. Well, I have a master's degree in the University of Montana and I have done postgraduate work at the Yale University and also at UCLA.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you receive your master's degree?
Mr. HOUSTON. That was in 1934.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what field did you receive your degree?
Mr. HOUSTON. It was in English. I had a lot of work in mathematics, too, at the same time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you went to Yale University ?
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes, I taught school in Montana about 3 years in a small town, high-school teaching, and then decided I needed to get a Ph. D. Degree, so I went back east and went to Yale for a year.
Mr. TAVENNER. What year was that?
Mr. HOUSTON. That would have been around 1938 or 1939, one of those years. 1938 and 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you take your undergraduate work? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1861 
Mr. HOUsToN. Undergraduate work at University of Montana at
Missoula, Mont.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that immediately prior to your receiving your master's work I
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes, I continued right on into the master's degree.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Houston, were you at any time a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. HousToN. That is correct, I have been. I was a member for a short time back in Connecticut, New Haven that would be, and then I was, my participation in the Communist Party was out here in California.
Mr. TAVENNEB. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. HousToN. No, I am not. I quit, actually in my own mind I quit in 1946, I think it would be about May or June that I made the decision that I was going to get out of the Communist Party, but it wasn't until 1948 that I got out of the area where I had been active and saw no more Communists and was not pressured to attend any meetings, and since that date, I would say it would be June 1948, that would be almost, that would be 7 years ago now, I have seen none of the Communists whom I was formerly associated with except some that I have seen here at this hearing today and yesterday.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I understand your break with the party did not become final and complete until you moved out of the environment in which you had been living ?
Mr. HousToN. That is correct. That is, if you are a member of the Communist party the party makes every effort to activate all its members and if you are not active somebody visits you to see why you aren't and you are therefore among those people whom you have been active with and naturally you will be asked to attend meetings and do this and do that.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it was the continuous pressure brought to bear upon you which kept you in the Communist Party as long as you did stay ?
Mr. HousToN. I would say that, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And in the communities to which you moved you have had no Communist Party associations whatever?
Mr. HOUSTON. That is correct; none whatsoever.
Mr. TAVENNEB. YOU say you were a member of the Communist you Party when you were at Yale University. May 1 ask you whether that time? had had any affiliation with the Communist Party prior to with comMr. HousToN. No. Where I first became acquainted munism at all, strangely enough, was in the library at the University of Montana where there were some books on the subject. However, to my knowledge there was no active organized Communist group there and I was an age where I read quite a bit and I read Norman Thomas, the Socialist, first, and he mentioned the Communists and I wanted to generally see what the Communists had to say, so I would say I was some local familiar and in New Haven I attended some, as I recollect, persuaded meeting which was of a Communist tinge and there I was interest to get in and I did participate to some extent, though my main of at the Uniwas in schoolwork but there were no Communists I knew were. versity of Yale, and I had no contact with them if there 
Mr. MOULDER. What was your age at that time ?
Mr. HOUsToN. My age at that time would be around 30 years old.
Mr. MOULDER. You were then a student at Yale ? 1862 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. HousTON. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has received evidence regarding 'Communist activity at Yale, but as I understand it, you knew no one connected with the teaching profession at Yale University who was a member of your group, is that correct ?
Mr. HOUSTON. That is correct. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was this group of the Communist Party that you belonged to there ? Was it an organized group of the student body or of the community I
Mr. HousToN. It was of the community in the area where I lived.
Mr. TAVENNER. NO connection with the University ?
Mr. HOUsToN. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was in 1938-39? 
Mr. HOUsToN. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee, please, a statement of your employment record?
Mr. HOUSTON. Well, I was employed, as I said, I worked in Montana as a school teacher for 3 years in a small town, Twin Bridges, Mont.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any Communist Party affiliations during that period ?
Mr. HOUSTON. None whatsoever. And I attended Yale after that and after that I went to Washington, D. C., and I worked for the Republican National Committee for a while as a research assistant and at that time I was not connected with the Communist Party whatsoever, so I hope the Republicans aren't embarrassed.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in Washington, employed in Washington ?
Mr. HOUsToN. That would be approximately a year or a little better.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you live while employed in Washington?
Mr. HOUSTON. Arlington, Va.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the address?
Mr. HOUSTON. No; I am afraid I can't.
Mr. TAVENNER. 800 North Fillmore Street?
Mr. HOUSTON. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Washington Book Shop while you lived in the city of Washington ?
Mr. HOUSTON. Not that I recollect. I think I may have gone there now that you mention it.
Mr. TAVENNEE. What was your next employment ?
Mr. HousToN. My next employment was, I came out to California and began to work for the Douglas Aircraft.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where was that?
Mr. HOUsTON. Santa Monica plant.
Mr. TAVENNER. What year?
Mr. HIOUSTON. That would be 1941, I came in August I believe of 1941 and started right there after September.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain employed by the Douglas Aircraft?
Mr. HOUSTON. I worked for them for 4 years, 1941 through 1944, I think, 3 or 4 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your next employment?
Mr. HOUSTON. At Northrup Aircraft Co.
Mr. TAVENENR. Where is that located ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1863 
Mr. HOUSTON. That was in, let's see, that would be Inglewood or -Hawthorne, I guess it would be; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. That employment began about the time of the termination of your employment at Douglas Aircraft?
Mr. HOUSTON. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain employed ?
Mr. HOUSTON. To 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your next employment after 1946?
Mr. HOUSTON. After 1946 I attended UCLA in attempting to get that Ph. D. which I started at Yale, but financial difficulties were too -much. I was working and working at the university as assistant instructor and working on the side and my wife was working and it was just too much work, that is all, I wasn't young enough to take it. So that ended about, when would it be, I was there 2 years-1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you do next?
Mr. HousTON. Then I went to work for Allied Fur Industry which was a fur farming company. They raised chinchilla and mink.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did your employment continue there?
Mr. HOUSTON. That would be I would say 2 years I worked for them.
Mr. TAVENNER. That would bring you up to approximately 1950, would it not?
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your next employment ?
Mr. HOUSTON. Then I worked for El Camino College, teacher of mathematics, 2 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. And your employment there was terminated in 1952 ?
Mr. HousToN. Correct.
Mr. TAVENNE. Did your former Communist Party membership have anything to do with the termination of your employment there?
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes; it was. The president called me in to his office -one day and told me that my name had been published in the paper, I hadn't read it, and asked me pointblank if I was a Communist. I told him "No," and he asked me if I had ever been and I said I had been, and told him about it and he asked me if I was through with it and I said I was, but he felt that the board would be, he already had some trouble in that respect with some other teachers I guess and he though it would be better, he didn't think the board would go along with rehiring me next year, although he would have supported me, and I just resigned and decided that teaching was out, and I quit. Mt. TAVENNER. Now, let us go back to the time that you arrived in ,California, in approximately 1941, from Washington, when you became employed at the Douglas Aircraft plant. Had you affiliated with the Communist Party in California before being employed by the Douglas Aircraft plant, or was it after?
Mr. HousToN. I would say after, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Will you tell the committee, please, the circumstances under which you affiliated with the Communist Party in California ?
Mr. HOUSTON. I don't exactly recall them. I had had of course this general interest in communism, had been in it, and as I recall I -probably attended some meeting or other and then probably said I -would join up. 1864 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. TAVENNER. In what group of the Communist Party did you become a member
Mr. HouStoN. I became a member of the Hawthorne-Inglewood group, the Hawthorne Club, I guess it was at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you affiliate with any other unit or group of the Communist Party in addition to the Hawthorne group
Mr. HOUSTON. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your membership was confined to the Hawthorne Club?
Mr. HOUSTON. The Hawthorne club, that is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall or will you tell the committee more in detail about how you became a member of the Hawthorne Club?
Mr. HOUsToN. Well, that is quite a while back and the exact circumstances I don't believe I can recall, except the usual procedure would be where at some meeting you indicated your interest and were approached by some active Communist and then were inducted and put to work. (Representative Moulder left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the active Communist that saw you?
Mr. HOUsToN. I don't know. I presume it would have been Vernon Potter. That is my guess. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you employed in aircraft from 1941 until 1946 while you were a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. HousTON. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any other members of the Hawthorne group of the Communist Party who were employed in either of these two plants, airplane plants, in which you were employed? (Representative Moulder returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. HOUSTON. I don't remember any that worked in the Santa Monica plant and in the Northrup plant there was one girl whose name I can't recall now who came into the group from I don't know where and went out. She was a pretty militant person and that is all 1 can recall in the plants that I worked.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has heard from time to time of emphasis that the Communist Party put upon Communist Party organizational work within industry. Can you tell the committee what effort was made to do organizational work within the industry in which you were employed?
Mr. HOUSTON. Well, the emphasis was of course to recruit workers and the party made every effort to have its members working in industry to try to recruit other people in the plant they were woking in into the Communist Party. I didn't do that. I don't remember recruiting any person whom I worked with into the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell the committee what effort was made by others to recruit from your particular industry
Mr. HOUSTON. Well, it seems to me if I remember correctly there was the industrial work of the party that was handled by industrial units, at least that occurred sometime in the history of that group, while I was there, that the members, if you were working in a particular plant and they organized a group maybe where workers didn't live near you but were Communists and in the same plant as you all meet together as a group. My recollection is that it wasn t very effective work done there in that respect. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1865 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the Hawthorne group considered an industrial unit or was itMr. HOUSTON. It was a geographical grouping. Later on it was an assembly district grouping.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with the names of industrial groups that were organized within the airplane industry ?
Mr. HOUsTON. Some clubs were named after people who were respected in the movement. I can't offhand-let's seeMr. TAVENNER. I am not sure I made the question clear. I want to know whether there were any industrial groups of the Communist Party in which the membership was from the airplane industry.
Mr. HOUsToN. Yes, there was an aircraft group I am sure, a grouping of the aircraft workers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever meet with them ? 
Mr. HOUSTON. As to that I don't recall. I may have at some time or other, but I would attend simply as an observer, I guess, from my group. Or perhaps it was this I heard at a section gathering of some kind of functionaries they were going to have such a meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was the practice in the Communist Party, was it not, to have meetings of functionaries where the functionaries represented the various units such as the industrial units of the Communist Party and neighborhood units
Mr. HOUSTON. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give the committee the names of the functionaries from any of these industrial units in aircraft
Mr. HotsTON. Well, I am sorry, I can't at this time because I have a lapse of memory, I don't recall them, I didn't have much connection with them. My work was primarily in this assembly district grouping and mainly concerned with routine duties of trying to get people to meetings and People's World drives and that sort of thing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become the chairman of the Hawthorne group of the Communist Party?
Mr. HOUSTON. I did at one time for a short period of time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with the witness who just preceded you on the stand, Mr. Wereb ?
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes, I was. He was very active in our group and I met him at his house a number of times.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you and a person by the name of Monjar engage in a security check at his home on one occasion ?
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes, I think we did put him on the frying pan and that would be-I was attending UCLA, most of the time as I said I had 3 jobs, trying to go to school and 2 jobs on the side and I did on some occasions participate. As I remember, I was called to Elsie Monjar's and said they were going to ask him some questions about Steve and we went over there. I believe she did most of the talking.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were called to her house to be advised to go with her over to Mr. Wereb's home?
Mr. HOUSTON. That is right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was told you as the purpose of this trip?
Mr. HOUsToN. The purpose was to question him about his lack of understanding of Marxism and the question was, as he put it: "Why are you in the Communist Party?" 1866 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA The idea would be to question him and see what his background wasand what his understanding of the party philosophy was and as I remember it came out, at that inquiry it came out that he was given a clean bill of health.
Mr. TAVENNE. Mr. Wereb has advised the committee as to what occurred at the first Communist Party meeting that he attended when you were introduced to the group as the newly elected chairman.
Mr. HousToN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the occasion ? 
Mr. HOUSTON. I do, although it seems to me that that wasn't the first time he was inducted into the party, but the remarks there I find it a little hard, I don't remember myself ever thinking at that time in that way of this country being a state of the Soviet Union, or words to that effect, and of course Steve wrote it all down at the time and I have only my memory to put against his fact taking, I would say. My recollection, if I said it, I didn't mean it that way and I think that it is twisted a little, even Wereb can make mistakes in getting stuff down. The reason I was in the Communist Party primarily at that time I think was because we were in the war, we were fighting the Germans and the Russians were on our side and the Communists were fighting for the war effort, supporting it in every way, and that was chiefly it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wasn't it the Communist Party view at that time that the United States should be made a Soviet state, whether it be a Soviet state under the leadership of the Soviet Union or just a Soviet state?
Mr. HOUSTro. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. There may be a question ? 
Mr. HOUsToN. Correct, that is the objective of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. To make the United States a Soviet state?
Mr. HOUsTON. That is correct, I would say that is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. If I understand you correctly, you do not deny having made the statement attributed to you by Mr. Wereb ?
Mr. HousTON. Well, I will say this for the record, that I think I am misquoted or quoted out of context in such a way as to give a meaning which I don't believe I ever intended to give That is, as I can remember, I never thought of making this country a subject part of the Russian setup.
Mr. TAVENNER. But after all, there is very little distinction, isn't there, in fact between making this country a part of the Soviet Union and making it a Soviet state, actually there is very little distinction, isn't there ?
Mr. HousToN. Perhaps there is a distinction.
Mr. DOYLE. As I understand your testimony, it is that you do state that you realized that the Communist Party during the time you were in it had the objective of making the United States of America a Soviet state, is that correct?
Mr. HOESTON. I would say yes.
Mr. DOYLE. All right, if you say yes, there isn't much difference between what you say now and Mr. Wereb's statement that was their objective, and he heard you say that their objective was to make it the 18th because if there are only 17 states in the Soviet Union and COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1867 this became a Soviet state, it would be the 18th state, wouldn't it, and that is what he said you said, so you are not far apart, are you?
Mr. HOUsTON. Probably there is a distinction without a difference. That is, I thought, my understanding at that time would be that this country would have a setup like the Russians, but its own setup.
Mr. MOULDER. Independent of the U. S. S. R.?
Mr. Housrow. Yes, going along with itMr. MOULDER. That was your thought at the time?
Mr. HOUsTON. Yes.
Mr. MOULDER. But not a part of the Soviet Union dominated by another foreign country? Was it your understanding that it was to be made an independent Soviet state? Is that the way I understand you?
Mr. HousToN. That is my understanding of it.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Moulder, you and I may agree but politically I can't conceive of the Soviet Union getting enough control over the United States of America to have it turn into a Soviet form of government without the Soviet Union and Russia controlling it; do you? If they give us birth as a Soviet state, sure they are our parents.
Mr. MOULDER. Don't misunderstand me. I am trying to get his thought about the matter; I wasn't expressing one of my own.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, we become their Soviet baby and they nurse us until we are adults and then they continue to feed us, sure. My belief from what I read and know is that they definitely intended to tie us under their apron strings and give us birth as a Soviet state and then keep us tied to their apron strings. Why not? That would give them control of the world and that is what they are after, of course.
Mr. MOULDER. May I make the statement there is no contention orargument about that matter. This witness just seems to construe what I said differently from what the previous witness testified to.
Mr. HOUSTON. I would say my understanding at the time-right now I say well, it is a distinction without a difference. 
Mr. DOYLE. You did say, however, that of course you recognized that the witness made notes.
Mr. HousToN. That is right. 
Mr. DOYLE. You don't question his accuracy ?
Mr. HOUSTON. Well, I wouldn't say he is a hundred percent accuratein detail. We are all human. But as I say, I can't put my memory against his writing afterward, but maybe I said it.
Mr. DOYLE. You may have said it in the enthusiasm and context of a Communist Party meeting ?
Mr. HousTON. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. At any rate, he wrote it down and as you say his notes are probably more accurate than your memory.
Mr. MOULDER. May I say again, Witness, as I understand it, you; do not affirm nor deny that, but you are making an explanation of a possible error on his part in construing the meaning of your statement? M'r TTO TSTON. Corrpct. I accent that. 
Mr. MOULDER. I don't know why the witness should be compelled' to be placed in a position of perjury.
Mr. DOYLE. I don t, either. i nad no intention in trying to clarify what I understood to be the witness' testimony. I had no intention of' 1868 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALTF., AREA placing you in the position of falsifying or anything of the sort. I want the witness to understand that.
Mr. HOUSTON. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. You heard the names of the persons identified by
Mr. Wereb as members of the Hawthorne group of which you were chairman?
Mr. HOUSTON. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of that group during the entire period Mr. Wereb was a member
Mr. HOUSTON. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. As far as you know was there any error in his Identification of members of the Hawthorne group? You heard his testimony.
Mr. HOUSTON. I would say it was substantially correct, although I believe it is only fair to say that a number of those people were what would be classified, according to the Communist Party at that time, as deadwood, that is, people who are inactive. And maybe attended a meeting and the active membership certainly made valiant efforts to get them out to the meetings, but I say in the main the list is correct, although I will have to state to be truthful that I can't remember all those names. I don't recall all those names.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Houston, that is true with a lot of organizations; isn't it? They have a large membership or a membership and only a few are active and attend meetings and it is a constant struggle on the part of the active members to get out the inactive ? That happens in about every organization?
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes.
Mr. SCHERER. That happens in church. We do not have enough people out to church on Sunday.
Mr. HOUSTON. That is right; true.
Mr. SCHERER. Yet they are members of the church.
Mr. HOUSTON. That is right.
Mr. SCHERER. It is those what pay the dues that help support the organization and provide for the activities of those who are active.
Mr. HOUSTON. That is correct.
Mr. MOULDER. Inasmuch as you have had the courage to come before the committee and frankly admit your former Communist Party affiliations and participation in the cell or branch of the party, that you testified about, don't you wish to make some explanation. I believe you should be entitled to make some explanation of the cause or reason which induced you to become a member of the Communist Party and also what influenced you to become an active member in participation in Communist Party affairs.
Mr. HoUSToN. As near as I can say on that, I have wondered about that myself here the last 6 years particularly the last few weeks, I would say that probably it is probably my background. I had a rather tough time at home, I was young, we had hardships, didn't have enough money in our family, there was a lot of dissension in the family, and the Communist Party, what attracted me to it, was this positiveness with which they seemed to hold their opinions and the people in it, I think that is what attracted me to it. And the theory of it, to my mind the revolutionary aspect of it I more or less in my mind bracketed with the early history in Russia and I didn't buy it, didn't think COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1869 in terms of that actively here in this country, and at the time I was in the Communist Party it was what was called a revisionist period. That side of the party was soft pedalled, it was only after the Duclos letter that I began to really think the thing out a little bit and see that I was not for that. I am not a revolutionist and I don't believe in it. That is all. I want to take this occasion for all the people who formerly knew me in the Communist Party to say that I in 1946 in my mind I quit and I quit for good. I rejected it.
Mr. ScHERER. Did you find the answer to those problems you had in your youth in the Communist Party
Mr. HOUsToN. Well, there was a lot of activity and, no, I didn't find the answer to my problems of my youth. The only thing, as I see it now, is I just grew up and became a little more practical and began to see the world as it really is and to see that American people aren't going to buy communism. They haven't bought it and we will work out our own destiny in this country.
Mr. SCHERER. That was a good statement. Many of us as young people had financial problems.
Mr. HousTON. That is true. There are people in the depression that had a difficult time, more difficult even than I had and they never became interested in the Communist Party.
Mr. SCHERER. You would say that the ideology of communism is attractive; wouldn't you? On the surface it is attractive. It would have to be attractive to attract the masses.
Mr. HOUSTON. The youth particularly. 
Mr. SCHERER. Actually, did it practice what it preached?
Mr. HousToN. No. 
Mr. SCHERER. The ideology doesn't emphasize revolution, that is what you wanted to tell us?
Mr. HousToN. I would say that the Communist Party is the revolutionary party.
Mr. SCHERER. Does it emphasize it, though?
Mr. HousToN. That aspect of it is kind of left in the background. It is really only what you would call the mature Communists that think that.
Mr. SCHERER.
Mr. HousToN.
Mr. SCHERER.
Mr. HOUSTON. That is, the hard core. The hard core. That understand it. Yes, that understand it. 
Mr. SCHERER. In other words, when you joined the party you may not have joined if you had known the substance of the Duclos letter at that time?
Mr. HOUSTON. I don't think I would have. 
Mr. SCHERER. The actual and real purpose of the Communist Party is often hidden insofar as new members are concerned or in many cases insofar as the ordinary, average, inactive member is concerned?
Mr. HousTow. Yes; I would say it is. 
Mr. SCHERER. But there is no question in your mind now that its main objective has prompted men who have sought power and domination over other peoples from time immemorial, namely, power and domination and control.
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes. 65500-55-pt. -- 7 1870 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask a question there: Witness, I have never met you, I am sure never spoken with you. If you were listening over the radio or if the newspapers were able to print all you have said about the Communist Party being a revolutionary party, which I know they can't possibly do for lack of space and other reasons, but if any young people of the teen age or about that, high school or college age, were thinking in terms of either staying in or joining the Communist Party, should ask your experience-you are a college man, were graduated-if those young people should ask you your advice as to whether to stay in the Communist Party or of getting into it, what would you say to them?
Mr. HousToN. Well, I would say that what they ought to do is to work in the traditional American way for whatever reforms they think necessary; that the Communist Party is not the answer.
Mr. SCHERER. That is what we all agree, as long as the majority of the people in this country would agree on a different form of government and that different form would be brought about through constitutional means, nobody could object.
Mr. HousTon. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Houston, were you connected or affiliated with the Communist Party in any manner while you were employed as a teacher at college that you mentioned ?
Mr. HousToN. La Comita College?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. HousToN. I was not. That was after 1948, I completely disassociated myself. I didn't see any Communists or had nothing to do with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you received your subpena to appear as a witness in this hearing, did you get in touch with the staff of the committee
Mr. HOUSTON. Yes; I did. I received a letter to the effect that any person who was so subpenaed and had any questions to ask could meet with the counsel of the committee and I did. Prior to that, 2 years prior to that I was visited by the FBI and asked about my connections and since I had quit, and determined to have nothing more to do with it, I told them what I knew about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU voluntarily told counsel for this committee that you were willing to testify here.
Mr. HousTox. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. And desired to do so?
Mr. HousTox. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. And you were advised by counsel that you would be given every opportunity to state the reasons for your going into the Communist Party and the reasons for your getting out of it?
Mr. HousTON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have already in answer to the questions of the committee members pretty well covered that field, but if there is anything else you desire to say as to the circumstances under which you got into the Communist Party and the circumstances under which you left, I want to give you an opportunity to say it.
Mr. HOUSTON. I don't believe that I can add any more to what I have said.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1871 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Moulder?
Mr. MOULDER. Nothing other than that I wish to commend you for your straightforward testimony before the committee, the admissions which you have made concerning your Communist Party affiliations and which certainly should not in any way have any unfavorable reflection upon you or you as a citizen in your occupation or work you are doing.
Mr. SCHERER. I agree with Congressman Moulder that there should be absolutely no sanctions against this man of any kind or nature by employer or fellow citizens whatsoever.
Mr. DOYL. I feel the same, Witness, of course. I want to ask you one question, if I may, about the Duclos letter. I have heard many witnesses, I have read much on the subject, and from your testimony about the effect the Duclos letter had on you, it awakened you to the fact that the two systems, the Soviet system, and the American system could not exist side by side in the same world; is that true? That was the claim of the Soviet Union party through the Duclos letter?
Mr. HousTon. Yes; it indicated that the Communist Party was going to become a revolutionary party.
Mr. DOYLE. And that is as we have understood it and I think that came to this country in April or May, 1945.
Mr. HousToN. Yes.
Mr. DoYLE. That is as I recall it. And as I said the other day, I have come to make a good deal of allowance for people who went into the Communist Party prior to April or May 1945, but I still don't understand how any person could stay in the Communist Party very long, say a year or two or even in some cases three, after April 1945. If you allow 1 or 2 or 3 years for any patriotic American citizen to comprehend the significance of the Duclos letter, and then if they still stay in the Communist Party, they stay in with their eyes open and they are a revolutionary party. That is my position on it. I want to commend you for what you have done and may I urge you to do everything in God's world that you can to overcome maybe even the little damage that you may realize you did while you were in it. With your great ability and now your devoted dedication to your country as contrasted to what you were dedicated to even as a scholar, won't you devote some of your material and spiritual resources and your fine education to helping even teen-agers, because you have had a great education in the university.
Mr. SCHERER. I think by his appearance here on the stand he has done that in a great measure.
Mr. DOYLE. I know that, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. I know what you mean, but I just wanted to comment.
Mr. DOYLE. Still you are in such a strategic position, won't you think in terms of putting out some of your fine ability and educational resources to counteract that. We urge you to do it, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, may I add that all of us if we had had the power of frontsight as good as our hindsight might have changed the course of conduct of our lives. 1872 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA I merely wish to add to what has already been said, that I hope this committee will cooperate in every way possible in the event your testimony and honest admissions and statements here before the committee, in injury to you results. If that occurs the committee should cooperate to render you such assistance as it can to rehabilitate yourself or to adjust any injury that might come about as a result of your appearance before the committee.
Mr. HOUsToN. Thank you. 
Mr. DOTLE. That is our established policy all over the country and we will be glad to apply that to you, sir.
Mr. HOUSTON. I appreciate that.
Mr. DOYLE. Are there any other questions of the witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I have no questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. (Whereupon the witness was excused.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Harry Hay.
Mr. HAY. May I beg allowance of this committee to have counsel sit on the right hand side. I have very poor hearing on the left.
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, indeed. Counsel should always be in the right. Let's adjourn for 5 minutes before you are sworn in. (Brief recess.)
Mr. DOYLE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. HAY. I do.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you. Let the record show that the committee reconvenes after the recess and that a legal quorum of the committee is here, Mr. Scherer, of Ohio, Mr. Moulder, of Missouri, and Mr. Doyle, of California. TESTIMONY OF HARRY HAY, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, FRANK PESTANA 