Mr. MiscHEL. Josef Mischel, M-i-s-c-h-e-. J-o-s-e-p-h. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel? 1794  
Mr. 'MISCHEL. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I'm sorry, I didn't recall that counsel had been identified. Where and when were you born, Mr. Mischel?
Mr. MISCHEL. On March 2, 1899, in what was then the Austrian province of Galicia.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you come to this country?
Mr. MISCHEL. I believe it was in November 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a naturalized American citizen? 1Mr. MISCHEL. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAENNER. When and where were you naturalized?
Mr. MISCHEL. In October 1941. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where?
Mr. MISCHIEL. In Los Angeles. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where have you lived since 1941?
Mr. MISCHEL. In Los Angeles. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you live between 1935 and 1941?
Mr. MISCHEL. I believe it was about 8 months in New York, 1 year in San Francisco, and then I moved down here and I have lived here ever since.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee'briefly what your educational training has been.
Mr. MISCHEL. I went to grammar school in the town where I was born, I was then sent to a gymnasium, g-y-m-n-a-s-i-u-m, in a nearby city. Then my family moved to Vienna, Austria, and there I finished gymnasium. Upon which I was drafted into the Austrian Army. The early part of 1918 I was pulled out of a front regiment and sent on a government scholarship to study medicine at the University of Lwow. After three semesters my sponsor died, the Austro-Hungarian monarchy collapsed. I found myself in the midst of another war which lasted, if I am not mistaken, up to the middle of 1919. When communications were opened I went back to Vienna and enrolled at the University of Vienna at the Academy of Foreign Trade. I finished my formal training at about 1922 or 1923. However, I must say that around 1935, upon arrival in this country, I went through a completely new school of thought, upon which I would like to comment if the committee will let me. It was not formal schooling.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have no objection. 
Mr. MISCHEL. Gentlemen, when a man at the age of 36 virtually discovers America he goes through a process similar to the pioneers of the days when the American democracy was born, because for the first time that he truly gets in contact with it he learns of the lives, the works, and the deeds of these men who have formed and molded the thoughts and the face of this great country. I came here at that time with a contract to write articles for a European magazine. I did not know the language, I did not know the country, I did not know the people. I have heard of people who traveled in America for 6 months and wrote a definitive work on America. I found myself in a position where I could not even write five words on America. I realized that unless one becomes a part of this country and these people one cannot write about them. And I spent nearly 5 years in studying the language, learning of the literature and of the history of this country, and whatever makes up a man, his thoughts, his conscience, his sense of responsibility, where  INDUSTRY 1795 I believe it deeply is influenced by the reading of the writings of the men, some of whom have been mentioned here and some not, Thomas Jefferson, Tom Paine, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln.
Mri. WALTER. Mr. Mischel, I didn't know when you were given permission to tell about your education in the United States that you were going into a long dissertation. Did you go to school after you came to the United States?
Mr. MISCHEL. Mr. Chairman, I said it was not a formal education, I made that statement.
Mr. WALTER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner, and ask the questions.
Mr. TAVENNER. As part of your studies did you engage in the study of Marxism, in addition to Jefferson and the others you mentioned?
Mr. MISCHEL. In those years?
Mr. TAVENNER. Any years.
Mr. MISCHEL. Mr. Chairman, I studied economics, and the history of economics, and of economic thought at the Academy of Foreign Trade in Vienna and the AcademyMr. WALTER. You were asked the question of whether or not you studied Marxism after you got to the United States. You can answer that. Did you or did you not ?
Mr. MICSHEL. May I ask counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. WALTER. It is certainly not a crime to study Marxism. I have a daughter, a sophomore in college, who is studying it now. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. WALTER. Did you or did you not study Marxism after you came to the United States ?
Mr. MISCHEL. Gentlemen, that opens a can of beans. It is getting into the question through the side door.
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, it isn't. It is proceeding directly to the point in issue here. It is no side door.
Mr. MISCHEL. I have mentioned when I was talking about my education in America, I was talking about the early years of my presence here.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. And I asked about your later years. So will you please answer the question? Have you studied Marxism in the United States?
Mr. MISCHEL. In view of the implications contained in the question, sir, and without denying or affirming any of the allegations contained in the question, I shall at this point claim the privilege and the protection of the fifth amendment, specifically the section which says that no man shall give testimony against himself.
Mr. WALTER. In any criminal matter.
Mr. MISCHEL. In any criminal matter.
Mr. WALTER. That's right.
Mr. MISCHEL. That is in any matter which might lead to criminal prosecution.
Mr. WALTER. What criminal matter are we engaged in prosecuting at the moment, and what criminal charge are you afraid will be preferred against you in the event that you answer the simple question of what you studied in 1935 or 1936 ?
Mr. MISCHEL. Sir, I shall stand on my privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession? 81595-51-pt. 5-11 1796 4 COMMUNISM 1 IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. MISCIEL. I am a film writer and for the past year or so I was also working as a story editor. IMr. TAVENNER. As what ?
Mr. MISCHEL. Story editor.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you worked as a film writer and a story editor .
Mr. MISCHEL. I began to write for films around 1943. I believe it was in the latter part of the year. As a story editor, as I have stated, I have been working for approximately 1 year. I do not remember the exact date on which I was employed in that capacity.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are the principal screen credits which you have received as a screen writer?
Mr. MISCHEL. As well as I can remember, and I may leave some out. there was a picture called Mademoiselle Fifi, The Isle of the Dead, My Own True Love, Dangerous Woman, something about Bowery Boys, some musical comedy. That is as far as motion pictures are concerned. I have written a considerable amount of screen plays for television.
Mr. TAVENNER. The investigation that the committee has conducted shows that there was held in October 1943, a writers conference under the auspices of the University of California and the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. According to a program for that congress, you, Josef Mischel, were a member of the general committee and chairman of the Committee on Writers in Exile. Is that correct?
Mr. MISCHEL. In view of the fact that the Writers' Mobilization was cited as subversive, I decline to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. T.\AENNER. Mr. David Raksin testified before the committee that he, too, occupied a position with the Writers' Congress which was held in 1943 and that then the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization sponsored a pamphlet or magazine known as the Hollywood Quarterly, and without consent or approval on his part carried his name on certairi committees appearing on the frontispiece or on the editorial page, I have forgotten which, of that quarterly. I would like to ask you if your name also appeared as a member of the advisory committee of the Hollywood Quarterly and whether it was used in the same way that Mr. Raksin testified his name was used, or whether you actually had any function to perform in connection with that quarterly ? (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. MISCI~EL. I have no function to perform with that quarterly, as far as I can remember. I had no editorial function at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you do recall that your name was used as a member of the advisory committee on motion pictures in that quarterly, do you not ?
Mr. MIscHL. I don't recall right now. You might want to show it to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will ask that the April 1947 issue of that publicati6n be shown the witness for the purpose of refreshing his recollection. Do you see the appearance there of your name as a member of the advisory committee ?
Mr. MISCHEL. I see the appearance of my name.
Mr. TAVENNER. On motion pictures? 
Mr. MISCHEL. Yes.  1797 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee the circumstances under which your name was so used ?
Mr. MISCHEL. In view of the fact that the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization is one of the sponsors of that program I will decline to answer the question-of that magazine, I mean.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that you were ap- pointed to a committee of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization to help bring about an alliance of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization and an organization in Moscow called VOKS, V-O-K-S, whereby there would be cultural material exchanged between the two groups. Do you recall that ?
Mr. MISCHEL. Inasmuch as this is a related question I shall decline. But may I also remind you that there have been, during the period of war, many attempts at bringing about some sort of an understanding between cutural groups of all countries-of all allied countries.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, let us understand a little more about the meaning of VOKS, V-O-K-S. Will you tell the committee what you understand was the purpose of that organization ?
Mr. MISCHEL. I don't even know what V-O-X stands for. 
Mr. TAVENNER. But you know the purposes-you know that V-O- K-S was an abbreviation of the Russian name by which the organization was known?
Mr. MISCHEL. I do not recall anything of the sort.
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you ever heard of VOKS before?
Mr. MISCHEL. I have heard of FOX, but I do not recall ever having heard of VOKS.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name that you have heard? I am not certain I understood you.
Mr. MISCHEL. F-O-X studio.
Mr. TAVENNER. I assume we have all heard of FOX.
Mr. MISCHEL. Well, the other one I misspelled when I repeated it the first time, because I said V-O-X and you corrected me by saying it is V-O-K-S, if I am not mistaken. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I misunderstood you again. I thought you said F-O-X. You said V-O-X; is that it?
Mr. MISCHEL. No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Let's get together on this one.
Mr. MISCHEL. Let's get that straight. When you asked me for the first time and I answered you, I said, "I have never heard of an organization, to the best of my knowledge, that was called V-O-X." Now, in coming back at me you said it is V-O-K-S, which was news to me. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. MISCHEL. Now, when you again repeated the question I said I knew of FOX but I didn't know, to the best of my recollection of VOKS. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, outside of describing FOX as one of the animal kingdom, what did you understand by VOKS? 
Mr. MISCHEL. Studio. A man who lives in Hollywood always thinks of studios. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I am speaking here of an organization in Russia, which I am certain you understand. 1798  
Mr. MISCHEL. Yes, by this time I understand. I have said that I have no recollection of any such organization. However, inasmuch as the activities were-or any activities with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, or any subsection is connected with it I have claimed the privilege of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Your privilege of the fifth amendment, I feel certain, is waived when you stated you do not lkow anything about it. So let me question you a little further to see if I can refresh your recollection about the meaning of VOKS and the part it played. ,VOKS is an abbreviation, an abbreviated reference (The witness conferred with counsel.) 
Mr. TAVENNER. That's all right if you desire to consult your counsel.
Mr. MIscHL. May I have one clarity-may I get one thing clear ? In saying that I do not recollect knowing anything about VOKS you said I have waived the privilege. I waived the privilege of what?
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to say that you claimed the priv- ilege of the fifth amendment, that is that you would not testify relating to the term "VOKS" because to do so might tend to incriminate you.
Mr. MISCHEL. I am sorry, I did not say that. I said I would not testify to anything relating to Hollywood Writers' Mobilization or any of its subsections.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I am entirely wrong. I am asking you about VOKS, so will you tell us what you know about VOKS ?
Mr. MScRHEL. Sir, I know nothing about VOKS.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then let me see if I can remind you or refresh your recollection. VOKS is the abbreviated reference to the All Union Society for Cultural Relations with Foreigners. That is a Russian organization, an organization with headquarters in the Soviet Union, created for the sole purpose of setting up branches in all countries for the purpose of establishing closer cultural relations with Russia. You told us a moment ago that you recall the activity that existed at this time about cultural relations with Russia.
Mr. MISCH.. Sir. I did not say that. I did not say that I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your reference?
Mr. MISCHEL. As far as I remember, I said I should like to remind you that there had been at that time many attempts atMr. WALTER. During the war.
Mr. MISCHEL. During the war-at understanding each other in some sort of an exchange of cultural knowledge. That I cannot document, I am not referring to anything specific. I am referring to a rather dim memory of times that have passed quite some time ago.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is why I am addressing this matter to your attention, to see if you do not recall the exchange of cultural,informa- tion between a committee of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization committee, to which we had understood you had been appointed, with this organization in the Soviet Union.
Mr. MISCHEL. I have already stated that I shall not answer ques- tions relating to the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, or any of its subdivisions. As far as I personally am concerned I have no recollection of having had any direct personal relationship to VOKS, or whatever the name may be.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me go a little further to see if I can refresh your recollection. As stated a moment ago, it was the purpose of this COMMUNISM 1799 IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY organization, established in the Soviet Union, to have branches in all of the countries of the world. The American branch of that organ- ization, the name of the American branch has been changed from time to time and the first organization or branch founded in the United States was back as early as 1924 and was known as the Friends of Soviet Russia. This was followed by the Friends of the Soviet Union, American Council on Soviet Relations, American Friends of the Soviet Union, Congress of American-Soviet Friendship, and the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. Now, those were the branches formed in this country of the All Union Society for Cultural Relations with Foreigners established in Moscow. Now, my question again is: After this definition and recital of the organization whether or not you had any connection with the exchange of cultural information with the Soviet Union. 
Mr. MISCHEL. May I?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. MISCHEL. If I am not mistaken, all the organizations that you have mentioned in this country as being affiliated with VOKS are on the list of subversive organizations. I, therefore, claim the privilege on that matter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever use the name Peter Warner, W-a-r-n-e-r?
Mr. MISCHEL. Not to my recollection. The only Peter Weiner I know is a little boy that goes to school with mine.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does what?
Mr. MISCHEL. I say, not to my recollection. The only Peter Weiner I know is a little boy who goes to school with mine.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the name that you were refer- ring to ?
Mr. MTSCHEL. I'm sorry I even said it. I shouldn't have been drag- ging in a 61>-year-old boy in here.
Mr. WALTER. Now, will you answer the question ?
Mr. MISCHEL. Yes, I will answer it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. I think we should clear that up.
Mr. MISCHEL. I should not have tried to be facetious. Sorry. W-e-i-n-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, the name that I have referred to was W-a-r-n-e-r. If you misunderstood my pronunciation, I'm sorry.
Mr. MISCHEL. Well, my original answer still stands. I have no recollection of ever using a name like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have a name other than your own which you have used at any time ?
Mr. MISCHEL. To the best of my knowledgeMr. TAVENNER. Other than a pen name, let us say.
Mr. MISCHEL. TO the best of my recollection, I have not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with John Howard Lawson ?
Mr. MISCHEL. I decline to answer on the ground stated previously.
Mr. WALTER. By that, you mean that you feel that the fifth amend- ment offers you some protection so that you don't have to answer that question; is that right ? 
Mr. MISCHEL. I do not have to answer the question if there is a pos- sibility of self-incrimination. 1800 
Mr. WALTER. Now, let me read the fifth amendment to you, and then I will ask you to tell me what part of it you think is applicable: No person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service, in time of war or public danger- That theory does not apply?
Mr. MISCHEL. No. 
Mr. WALTER (reading) : nor shall' any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb-- That does not apply?
Mr. MISCHEL. That's right.
Mr. WALTER (reading) : nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor he deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law- 
Mr. MIISCHEL. It is the first part of it. 
Mr. WALTER. Oh. And you feel that you are now testifying in a criminal case and that you are being asked to testify against yourself; is that right ?
Mr. MISCHEL. Mr. Walter, that is not the case.
Mr. WALTER. Well, if it isn't the case, why don't you answer the question ?
Mr. MISCHEL. I am not in court.
Mr. WALTER. Yes.
Mr. MISCHEL. I am testifying under oath.
Mr. WALTER. That's right.
Mr. MISCHEL. And I may have reasonable apprehension that this testimony may lead to prosecution, even though not to conviction.
Mr. WALTER. I am sure I can't follow your reasoning, but thai is beside the point. Proceed, Mr. Tavernner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time advised or directed to organize a fund, a private fund to be kept secret, the proceeds from which were to be used in the Hollywood strike of 1945 ?
Mr. MISCHEL. May I answer that with a certain fullness? I should like to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Pardon me. I don't understand you.
Mr. MISCHEL. I have not been advised, directed, or whatever else you mention to organize any secret fund for anything, let alone for the strike that you mentioned. I have, however, contributed and solicited funds for a charitable welfare organization that was established under the laws of the State of California that was taxexempt in California and also tax-exempt for Federal taxes.
Mr. WALTER. What was the name of it, please?
Mr. MISCHEL. I believe-I don't remember exactly. It was either Hollywood Welfare Association or Hollywood Welfare Fund. I find myself in a very curious position, testifying to that. You see, to a man of my experience, past experience, it is strange to be called before this committee to testify on matters of welfare and charity, because before I came to this country, I would say that one of the outstanding qualities known abroad, as far as the American Nation is concerned, is the charity and welfare.
Mr. TAVENNER. But not as a secret fund?  1801 
Mr. MISCHEL. I did not speak of a secret fund, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. But I did.
Mr. MISCIIEL. I was speaking of an open fund. I denied any knowledge of a secret fund, as far as this particular matter is con-cerned.
Mr. TAVENNER. My only question related to the existence of a se-cret fund.
Mr. MISCHEL. I'm sorry. That was the only one that I knew, and that is the one I wanted to testify to. I do not know of any other.
Mr. TAVENNER. John Howard Lawson-did John Howard Lawson ever confer with you about soliciting funds to be handled secretly in connection with the strike?
Mr. MISCHEL. Sir, I have already declined a question concerning John Howard Lawson. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Mischel, in the course of the testimony of Mr. Martin Berkeley you were mentioned as a person known to him to be a member of the Communist Party. statement or not? Now, was he truthful in that 
Mr. MISCIIEL. I shall decline to answer that question on the ground of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You have stated that you were naturalized in 1941
Mr. MISCI-EL. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you were naturalized ? 
Mr. MISCHEL. I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. MISCHEL. May I confer with counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. (The witness conferred with his counsel.) 
Mr. MISCHEL. Mr. Tavenner, you failed to ask me one question that has been asked before of other witnesses, and I will start with the answer to that, but I will lead up to the answer of this present question, if I may, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Answer Mr. Tavenner's question and then you can make any explanation you care to. 
Mr. MIISCHEL. It is related. That is why I wantedMr. WALTER. Answer the question and then you can make any ex- planation you care to make. 
Mr. MISCHEL. I am not a member of the Communist Party, but what I wanted to tell you is this: when I received a subpena, within 2 or 3 days of receiving it I resigned my position with the company in which I held the job as a story editor. I did it voluntarily. I had reasons that were personal, which I would not mind telling you if you should so desire. In that conversation or, rather, the conversation previous to that, I made a voluntary statement to my employers, in which I said that in taking employment as a story editor for that program or at the time of taking the employment as story editor of that program, and I am not aware of the exact date-it was some time in September or October-that at that timeMr. WALTER. What year? 
Mr. MISCIHEL. Last year. That at that time I was not a member of the Communist Party, and I have not been been a member of the Communist Party from that day on.
Mr. TAVENNER. What date? 1802 
Mr. WALTER. September or October of last year.
Mr. MISCHEL. September or October 1950. I don't remember the exact date. I have purposely repeated the statement here.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I am very glad to know that you are not at this time a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. MISCHEL. Sir, I said I am not a member of the Communist Party. That was my answer to your original question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. How were you employed immediately before accepting your employment which began in September or October of 1950 ? , Mr. MISCHEL. I was a free-lance writer since-let me start with the early part. I become a reader at RKO some time in the early part of 1942; I believe it was in February. I stayed on in that job for approximately a year and a half. I am not aware of the exact time any more. I was then made a writer and stayed in that job at RKO for approximately a year and a half. On leaving RKO I entered upon a career as a free-lance writer in Hollywood. That means a few weeks work and a few weeks out of work. Sometimes you work longer and sometimes the intermittent periods are longer than the times to work. For about 2 years I was under contract to Paramount. Those were the years, if I am not mistaken, of 1946 or 1947. Then again I started free lancing, and so I did up to the time that I became -story editor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, I was impressed by your statement that you were no longer-that you were not a member of the Communist Party beginning with your employment in September or October 1950, as a screen editor.
Mr. MISCHEL. Story editor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Story editor, I mean.
Mr. MISCHEL. It may be a euphemism, but that was the title.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask you why it was that you ceased to become a member of the Communist Party at that particular time?
Mr. MISCHEL. Sir, I did not say I had been before.
Mr. TAVENNER. So what is your purpose in telling your employer that you had not been a member of the Communist Party since September 1950 ?
Mr. MISCHEL. It may be strange to you, but my working relation with the people in the company was a very happy one, which is one of the reasons why I resigned when I received this subpena. I did not want to leave that job with' any implications or inferences that, by the way, may be drawn here from whatever my testimony will say. I did not want those men with whom I worked closely to believe that I had withheld information from them. I know you are going to try to trip me over on that. I simply did not want to leave that job with any doubts in their minds as to what my attitude had been while I was working with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, that was very commendable, and I am not at all attempting to trip you in any manner. I am only after the facts.
Mr. MISCHEL. I will tell you as many facts as I can, and I shall decline answering wherever there is danger of self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you were not a member of the Communist Party from September or October 1950, when you became employed as a story editor, were you a member of the Communist Party immediately prior to your employment ?  1803 
Mr. MISCIIEL. I decline to answer this question on the ground of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, had there been any change in your ideological thinking at the time of your employment as a story editor from what it, had been in thepast ?
Mr. MISCHEL. ow you are beginning to probe my mind. Well, I still must decline-I still will decline any questions pertaining to the period previous to the one I have mentioned.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe I asked you the question which you have not yet answered as to whether or not Mr. Martin Berkeley was telling the truth when he said he knew you to be a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. MISCHEL. As far as I remember, I declined to answer that.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Jackson ?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Mischel, you have taken your stand upon the fifth amendment and during the course of your testimony it has been read to you. I assume you are familiar or you were familiar with ;it before you came in. Are you also familiar with the fourth and sixth amendments to the Constitution ?
Mr. MISCHEL. Mr. Jackson, I was questioned as to my knowledge .of the amendments when I became a citizen.
Mr: JACKSON. Then that makes it very simple for you to answer the question. Are you familiarMr. MISCHEL. May I answer- 
Mr. JACKSON. Are you familiar with the contents of the fourth and sixth amendments immediately preceding and following the fifth?
Mr. MISCHEL. Mr. Jackson, one does not study up on the legal document until it comes up in one's own life. I am quite sure that among the audience here you would find very few who would also be able to answer that question and yet by sitting here they knew what the fifth amendment means.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, the people who are sitting in the audience have not taken their position upon the fifth amendment and, therefore, have .had no necessity to go to the Constitution and determine which one covered their particular case.
Mr. MISCHEL. That is perfectly true.
Mr. JACKSON. The point I make is that it is of more than passing moment that your interest seems to have centered entirely on the provision of the fifth amendment which covered the activity upon which you anticipated you would be questioned.
Mr. MISCHEL. The last few days I must admit that was so.
Mr. JACKSON. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Any questions, Mr. Potter? 
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Mischel, it is difficult to understand your testimony, which is much like a witness, I believe, we had earlier this morning who now at the present time denies any membership in the Communist. Party. We, as an instrument of Government, are seeking information in order to aid us in better understanding an enemy which we are sending men to fight today. It is a matter of securing intelligent information. Now, with your citizenship, you assume certain obligations as a citizen. The boy next door to you is being 1804 INDUSTRY drafted and sent to Korea to fight international communism there. We are asking you to tell us what little information you might have concerning the Communist menace as you might know it in the United States.
Mr. MISCHEL. IS that a question ? 
Mr. PorrTR. Now, I am thinking-I am just bringing it to your attention as fairness among citizens. One boy is being drafted and you are sitting there hiding behind the fifth amendment.
Mr. MISCHEL. I will not enter into an argument about hiding behind the fifth amendment or standing on the fifth amendment, but let me tell you this, Mr. Potter: I have spent long four sleepless weeks probing my conscience and my mind and my intelligence and my experience to find an answer to the dilemma which I am facing. It was not an easy thing to do, and it was a responsible thing to do. I feel a responsibility toward this country as much as I feel a respon- sibility toward myself. To explain why I have taken the stand of giving the answers would take a rather long time, because reasoning of 4 weeks cannot be brought down to the level and expressions of a magazine, of a magazine like Quick. I doubt that this committee would be patient with me to explain at all. However, I could give you a shorter answer. I have-and I know that the name has been looked upon with a certain amount of suspicion lately when his name came up. I don't mean the name, but when the name came up. I have a quotation from Thomas Jefferson. If you want me to, I will read it.
Mr. WALTER. Don't bother. We are probably well acquainted with Jefferson. 
Mr. MISCHEL. Very well, sir, but it would have given the answer to 
Mr. Potter in a very shortened manner. 
Mr. POTTER. The boy that has been drafted and sent to Korea would also like to make an explanation. He doesn't get that opportunity. He goes. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Mischel, you stated that when you took the last employment you had in September or October of 1950 you were not a Communist. 
Mr. MISCHEL. Yes, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Were you a Communist on the 26th of June 1950?
Mr. MISCiEL. I decline to answer, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Were you a Communist on the 27th of June 1950 ?
Mr. MISCHEL. I decline to answer, sir.
Mr. WALTER. That was the day after the attack in Korea.
Mr. MISCHEL. I was well aware of the date, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Anything further, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. No questions.
Mr. WALTER. The witness will be excused.
Mr. MIscnEL. Thank you.
Mr. WALTER. At this point the committee will take a recess of 10 minutes. (A short recess was here taken.)
Mr. WALTEB. The committee will be in order.
Mr. Tavenner, who is your witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Lester Koenig. COMMUNISM 1805 IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Koenig, will you raise your right hand. Do you swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. KOENIG. I do.
Mr. WALTER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. KOENIG. I am, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. ROSE. Edward M. Rose, Beverly Hills, Calif. TESTIMONY OF LESTER KOENIG, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, EDWARD M. ROSE 