Mr. MOULDER. Do you have a written statement prepared?
Mr. EGER. Yes.
Mr. MOULDER. You may file it with the committee. Under the rules it is prohibited to read any statements.
Mr. EGER. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state your name, please, sir?
Mr. EGER. Joseph Eger.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell your last name?
Mr. EGER. E-g-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record?
Mr. BRINTON. William M. Brinton, B-r-i-n-t-o-n.
Mr. TAVEXXER. Of what bar ?
Mr. BRINTON. San Francisco bar, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Eger?
Mr. EGER. July 9, 1920, Hartford, Conn.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. EGER. In Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long had you been a resident of Los Angeles?
Mr. EGER. Roughly about 10 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what profession are you engaged?
Mr. EGER. I am a musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you practiced your profession during the entire time that you have been a resident of this area ?
Mr. EGER. Yes, I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been?
Mr. EGER. I went through public schools in Parnassus, Pa., Pittsburgh, Pa.; graduated high school there, and went as a full scholarship student to the Curtis Institute and graduated there, and I spent one summer also on a full scholarship at Tanglewood in the Berkshires.
Mr. TAVENNER. What date?
Mr. EGER. What date was what, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. The date of the last place you attended.
Mr. EGER. Tanglewood was in 1941. 3952 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what knowledge you have, if any, of an effort made or a plan made by the Communist Party to procure musicians to circulate petitions of the Independent Progressive Party of California in 1948 for the purpose of putting that party on the ballot in California (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. Mr. Tavenner and gentlemen of the committee, I would like to say at the outset that I am not a Communist, and it has been a long time since I have done anything of a strictly political nature. I feel that there is nothing I have ever done for which I need be ashamed.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to whether or not the witness is reading the statement which he was informed previously could be inserted in the record?
Mr. EGER. Yes, Mr. Jackson. I was just saying this as a way of replying to you. I didn't answer your question as "Yes." I am onlyI said in the statement what is the truth. And I was only refreshing my memory as to what to answer to the question Mr. Tavenner placed.
Mr. JACKSON. I didn't gather that your opening remarks were at all responsive to the question which has been asked by counsel.
Mr. EGER. Could you repeat it, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. My question was whether or not you have any knowledge of an effort made by the Communist Party, or of the existence of a Communist Party plan to have musicians in Los Angeles, that is, Communist Party musicians in Los Angeles, circulate a petition of the Independent Progressive Party in California for placing that party on the ballot in 1948? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. I must decline to answer with the privilege of selfincrimination.
Mr. JACKSON. Specifically are you relying on the provisions of the fifth amendment? I am asking that for your own protection in order that the record may reflect exactly what constitutional grounds you are taking.
Mr. EGER. The question may lead to incrimination, self-incrimination. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNEk. Marked for identification only as "Joseph Eger Exhibit No. 1," I hand you a photostatic copy of the Independent Progressive Party of California petition which has an affidavit at the end of it over the name of Joseph Eger, bearing date the 13th day of January 1948. I now ask you whether or not it is your name that appears in that affidavit, and whether or not you signed it. (Document handed to the witness and his counsel.) (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. Mr. Tavenner, I decline to identify my signature on the grounds that I previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I offer in evidence the document marked "Joseph Eger Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MoULDER. As requested by counsel, the document so marked is admitted. (This exhibit is similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 1, p. 3957, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES; CALIF., AREA 3953 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, an examination of the affidavit discloses that the affiant states that he circulated the petition and obtained the signatures appearing thereon. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. In January 1948, the date of the petition that I presented to you, were you a member of the musicians branch of the Communist Party in Los Angeles?
Mr. EGER. May I have 30 seconds to answer that question?
Mr. MoULDER. You may have 30 seconds to answer the question; yes. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. I would be perfectly willing to discuss anything about myself, past, present, and future. However, I have been informed by counsel that to do so would involve others and get others into bad trouble. I doMr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. I have told you this committee would make no bargains.
Mr. EGER. Pardon?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have told you that this committee would make no agreements.
Mr. EGER. I am asking for none.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think you have misquoted me.
Mr. EGER. You didn't let me finish my statement.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness has been allotted 30 seconds, which have already been consumed. We will give you 30 seconds more to answer the question.
Mr. EGER. I decline to answer that question on the grounds as previously stated.
Mr. BRINTON. Mr. Chairman, may I address myself to the previous question ?
Mr. MOULDER. The rules prohibit counsel from addressing the committee or to engage in any argument concerning any question propounded. And the witness has declined to answer and has claimed the privilege under the first and fifth amendments, as I understand it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I take it from what you have said you are not now a member of the Communist Party, is that correct?
Mr. EGER. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party when the subpena was served on you for your appearance here?
Mr. EGER. No; I was not.
Mr. MOULDER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. EGER. Mr. Moulder, I wish it were possible to answer all questions about myself without involving others, but I understand the law states that once I open the door I must involve others. I play a French horn. In order to play a French horn, you must keep your head up. I couldn't live with myself or keep my head up if I got others in trouble.
Mr. MOULDER. I asked you the question. Do you decline to answer the question ?
Mr. BRINTON. Would you repeat the question, please ?
Mr. MOULDER. I asked him if he had ever been a member of the Communist Party. 3954 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. I am sorry, I must decline to answer that on the basis that I might subject myself to prosecution and on the grounds previously stated, self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on January 1, 1950 ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. I must decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on January 1, 1953? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. The same answer, the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on ,January 1, 1956? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. The same answer, the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then sometime between January 1, 1956, and the service of the subpena on you, you ceased to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. EGER. That is an assumption that you draw, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is the only assumption from your testimony. You were not a member of the Communist Party on the date that the. subpena was served on you. Is there anything that occurred that caused you to change your status between 1948 and the time the subpena was served on you for your appearance here? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. EGER. I must decline to answer on the grounds of the privilege: against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Whatever the cause or factors which changed your position or status I want to compliment you on getting into the status where you can honestly say today that you are not a member of the Communist Party. I want to say this, too, and I think, Mr. Chairman, we should say to this witness as to the circulation of these petitions in 1948 by Communist Party members, the musicians group and others, to obtain sufficient signatures from California voters to qualify the IPP as a legal party in California, there were some 11,000 signatures obtained in Los Angeles County, as I recall it. And I know very well that those people had no idea that those petitions were being circulated, as has been testified under oath they were, by in the main, members of the Communist Party in California. The evidence is abundant that the IPP in California was initiated, furthered, and used by the Communist Party in California as another front to obtatin their unworthy objectives. And I am going to assume, as our counsel did, there was a time when you were a member of the Communist Party. It is the only assumption I can draw. And I want to compliment you on getting out of that garbage can if you ever were in the garbage can.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Jackson ?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I want to associate myself to a certain degree with our distinguished colleague, from California, Mr. Doyle, in complimenting the witness on having gotten out of the Communist ,COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3955 Party, and also upon his distinguished counsel for the manner of representation of his client. But I do think that we should make it very clear that moral scruples are not a legal ground for refusing to answer questions. It has been so found in the courts, for declining to answer on the basis of the fifth amendment. I think we would make a very serious mistake, Mr. Chairman, if we permitted witnesses to take the stand to make a very limited statement respecting their own activities and then to draw the line. The purpose of the committee, the purposes of the Congress, would be defeated in such an instance. As far as I am concerned, anyone who fails to cooperate completely and fully with the committee has not cooperated. And I want my position on that matter to be made very clear in the record.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I have no questions. 
Mr. MOULDER. Is there anything further, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused.
Mr. BRINToN. It is my understanding that the statement previously submitted in writing will be included as a part of the record. Is that correct?
Mr. MOULDER. It will be filed in the record. It will not become a part of the written testimony.
Mr. BRINTON. I see. Thank you.
Mr. MOULDER. The next witness, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kalman Bloch. 
Mr. MOULDER. Will you please hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and noth- ing but the truth, so help you, God ?
Mr. BLOCH. I do. TESTIMONY OF KALMAN BLOCH, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ROSE S. ROSENBERG 