Mr. TOWNSEND. My name is Leo Townsend.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Townsend ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I was born in Faribault, Minn., on May 11, 1908.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession or occupation ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am presently occupied as a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state briefly to the committee what your educational training has been for your profession ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I was educated in a parochial and public schools of Faribault. I attended the University of Minnesota for 2 years. I left there in 1930 because the depression was on. I could no longer support myself at the university. I found a job in New York with a magazine publishing company; was transferred by that company to Hollywood in 1935; remained with it until 1938, when I left to become a radio writer. I was a radio writer from 1938 until 1941, when I entered the motion-picture field, where I have been since.  1509 
Mr. TAVENNER. Since you have entered upon the motion-picture field, what has been your employment and with whom? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I have been employed by various studios. Some of the films on which I have screen credit--let me see-at Eagle Lion Studio, for instance, a picture called Port of New York; at Allied Artists, a picture called Southside 1-1000; at Universal, a picture called It Started With Eve; at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, a picture called Seven Sweethearts; also at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer a film called The Black Hand, and at Warner Bros. a film called Night and Day.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Townsend, the committee, in the course of its investigation, obtained information that you at one time were a member of the Communist Party. Is that true or not ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, that is true. 
Mr.
Mr. of the
Mr. TAVENNER. TOWNSEND. When did you join the Communist Party? I joined the Communist Party at the beginning year 1943. TAVENNER. How long did you remain a member? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. At that time I remained a member until early in February 1944 when I entered Government service.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by Government service?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I was with the Office of Strategic Services during the war for a period of some months. (At this time Representative John S. Wood left the room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you sever your connection with the Com- munist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. In 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I would like to go back to the beginning of your experience as a member of the Communist Party and have you to tell this committee all that you can regarding your participation, your activities and knowledge you obtained of the Communist Party matters while a member to aid this committee in this investigation which is now being conducted.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Before I go into that I wonder if I may say, in answer to a previous question about my employment, that I am presently employed at Warner Bros. studio as a screen writer. When I received my subpena last week I went to the heads of the studio, told them I had a subpena, told them what I had planned to do here, that I was going to testify before the committee. They told me that my testimony would in no way affect my employment at their studio.
Mr. WALTER. This committee has hoped that would be the position taken by various' studios.
Mr. TOWNSEND. This was the position taken by Warner Bros. I don't know about the position of the other studios at all, but I am proud to say that Warner Bros. took this position.
Mr. WALTER. We don't feel that a man should be penalized for aid- ing the committee directed by the Congress of the United States to perform certain services. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. That decision which you have mentioned was based upon a bona fide statement by you of your Communist Party activities-Mr. TOWNSEND. That's right. 1510 COnMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. And the fact that you had sometime back com- pletely and finally severed your connection with the Communist Party?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I would like for you to go back to the beginning of your experience in the Communist Party. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which you became a member.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I should probably begin by saying that in 1943during my lifetime there have been two world wars and one major depression. I wondered if there were ways to cure this situation. Also, I felt that in our own country there was social inequity, starvation amidst plenty in certain cases. I wanted to do something about this. I talked with other writers. I found other people sharing my feelings. Eventually I discovered that some of these people were members of the Communist Party. They asked me to subscribe to the party newspaper, the People's World. I looked at it, found its editorial policies at that time more or less parallel to the editorial policies of, let's say, the Los Angeles Times. The drive was to win the war. We were at that time allies with the Soviet Union against Germany. I subscribed to the People's World. I was then asked if I would attend a discussion meeting to be conducted by John Howard Lawson. I agreed to attend this meeting, and this meeting turned out to be a Communist recruiting meeting. My wife and I attended.
Mr. Lawson spoke. A number of people who were there signed the cards, including my wife and I, and I must say parenthetically that my wife has given a statement to this committee outlining her activities within the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. And it was at that meeting, conducted by John Howard Lawson, at which you signed your application to become a member of the party?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That is true; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, do you recall where that meeting was held 
Mr. TOWNSEND. It was held on Wetherly Drive in Hollywood at the home of a writer named Waldo Salt.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Mr. Waldo Salt present ? I remember no others there outside of Mr. Lawson and my wife and myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you were accepted as a member of the party, were you assigned to any particular unit or cell of the partybe phoned
Mr. TOWNSEND. I was told at that meeting that I would
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, he was present there. of my first within the next few days and given an address of the home by a woman whom party meeting. I was phoned several days latter gave me an address, I didn't know named Marjorie MacGregor. She to be the which was either in Beverly Hills or Westwood. This was address of a home of the first party meeting. of this
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you later learn that she was a member particular cell? I
Mr. TOWNSEND. She was not a member of that particularnocell. direct I have was told she was a member of the Communist Party. she was the wife knowledge that she was. I have learned later that a party of a screen writer named Arnold Manoff. I never saw her in meeting.  1511 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not she is the same person that is also know as Marjorie Potts?
Mr. TOWNSEND. No, sir; I don't know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did this cell to which you were assigned have a name?
Mr. TOWNSEND. As far as I recall, it did not.
Mr. TAVENNER. At that time what was the general character of the membership?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Mainly screen writers' wives-mainly screen writers, I would say.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the names of those who were members of the group to which you were first assigned ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Before I name these names I would like to preface this with a very brief remark. I feel that the purpose of this committee is an investigative one so that the Congress of the United States may intelligently legislate in the field of national security. As a loyal American, interested in that security, I feel I must place in the hands of this committee whatever information I have. Also I feel that since the American Communist Party in the last 4 years hasn't openly and honestly stated its aims and its goals and has evaded the issue of its allegiance to the Soviet Union, I think that the American people have a right to know which people have not yet made up their minds. Also, I want to say this, that I don't suppose that out of all the people I knew during my period of membership in the party there were more than, let's say, five or six who could conceivably commit an act of violence against the United States. But I don't know which five or six those might be and if I remain silent now to protect the people who were misled I must share the responsibility in time of crisis for the acts of those who may commit violence. I feel, also, that some of these people may now be out of the party. If so I am sure they will be given an opportunity equal to mine to state their position. In this first branch, the people I remember were Harold Buchman, Robert Rossen, Nicholas Bela, Fred and Marie Rinaldo, John Wexley, and Maurice Rapf.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the last name?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Rapf, R-a-p-f.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you associate with those persons in Communist Party work ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I was in that branch until shortly before I joined the Office of Strategic Services in February of 1944. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to a person by the name of John Wex- ley. Was he a screen writer? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you identify him a little further. I believe his name has not been mentioned before now.
Mr. TOWNSEND. John Wexley is a screen writer and playwright. I believe he wrote the play The Last Mile and I believe he wrote the play They Shall Not Die. Other than that I don't know his credits.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe I was mistaken in stating that his name had not been mentioned because I recall now, since my recollection has been refreshed, that he was definitely mentioned by Mr. Collins in his testimony. 1512  You referred to the fact that you entered into the service of the OSS. Will you explain to the committee the circumstances relating to that employment ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. I had tried to enter the armed services, the Air Force and the Navy: had been rejected by both. I was approached by someone to apply for entrance in the Office of Strategic Services. They were looking for writers who were to go overseas with combat troops. I applied for the OSS and within a few weeks was notified that I was accepted. I automatically left the Communist Party before going into the service. I believe it was the policy of the party at that time that anyone in the armed services had automatically left the party before he entered the service. I remained in the OSS from February of 1944 until the 1st of July of the same year. My overseas orders were canceled the morning I was to sail. I never found out the reason why but I have reason to suspect now that the reasons were political, that my former membership in the party had been ascertained through screening of some kind. I don't know this to be a fact. I was asked by the OSS to serve in its New York office and told they would see if they could clear my overseas duty. I waited several months, realized that I probably would not get a chance to go over- seas. I had no function in the New York office and I asked for my release, was granted it and I returned to Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you returned to Hollywood was any effort made to have you reassociated with the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. During the period in OSS I had certain minor qualms about the party, but by the time I had returned to Hollywood it had become the Communist Political Association. I was assured that its main drive was, in addition to the winning of the war, the reelection of Franklin Roosevelt. I was for both of these things. I reaffiliated with the Communist Political Association. This was, I imagine, in July of 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did any one contact you with reference to rejoin- ing the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. A writer named Robert Lees.
Mr. TAVENNER. . What is the name ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Lees, L-e-e-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you identify him a little further, please.
Mr. TOWNSEND. He is a screen writer. I believe he has previously appeared before this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS the spelling L-e-e-s ? TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I misunderstood 
Mr. you. As a result of that conference did you realign yourself with the Communist Party?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, I did. With the Communist Political Association.
Mr. TAVENNER. To what group were you assigned at that time?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, one was a group in what was called the north- west section, I believe. One of the writers' groups, I think there were probably four or maybe five writers' groups within this section arranged geographically.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state the names of the writers who are members of your group.  INDUSTRY 1513 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I will have to-I was in that group-let me preface this-from July 1945 until, I think, the summer of-July 1944 to the :summer of 1945, transferred to another branch. I may have been in three branches between July 1944 and 1948, when I left the party. So I would have to be vague about which people were in which branch. I simply will have to tell you the names I recall in these several 'branches. I have already mentioned Robert Lees. There was Henry MyersMr. TAVENNER. Henry Myers? Let me ask you to identify those people a little more fully with regard to their Communist Party membership and activity, and their occupation as you give their names.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, Henry Myers was a screen writer. As to his Communist identity, I don't know except that he was in the branch with me. I don't recall him serving as an officer of any kind. Jay and Sondra Gorney were also in this branch, or one of the others. Mr. *Gorney was a song writer. There was Morris Carnovsky and Phoebe Brand, who was his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe, for the sake of accuracy, it would be well to spell these names as you give them so there will be no mistake or :misunderstanding about them. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of Jay Gorney.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is the spelling G-o-r-n-e-y ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That's true; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. The first name is J-a-y, I believe ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Sondra Gorney, his wife, is S-o-n-d-r-a ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. How does Mr. Myers spell his name ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I believe it is M-e-y-e-r-s. 4
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you mentioned Morris Carnovsky. Will you :spell the name, please?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That is C-a-r-n-o-v-s-k-y.
Mr. TAVENNER. The first name is spelled how ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. M-o-r-r-i-s. I'm quite sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. M-o-r-r-i-s?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think you named another person.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I named Phoebe Brand, who was Mr. Carnovsky's -wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell that name, please?
Mr. TOWNSEND. The first name is P-h-o-e-b-e and the last name is B-r-a-n-d.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. If you will proceed, please.
Mr. TOWNSEND. There was Abe and Sylvia Polbnsky. That is :spelled P-o-l-o-n-s-k-y, I believe. There was John Weber, W-e-b-e-r, who was a writer's agent at that time. (At this point Representative John S. Wood returned to the room.)
Mr. TOWNSEND. There were Paul and Sylvia Jarrico, J-a-r-r-i-c-o; -there was Joseph Losey, L-o-s-e-y. * Name should be Henry Myers.  INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you identify him further, please.
Mr. TOWNSENFD. He is a film director.
Mr. TAVENNER. A film direcor?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; and his wife Louise Losey. She may well be out of the party at this time. He may be, too: I don't know. I hope they have a chance to state their position if they are. There was a writer named Ben Bengal, B-e-n-g-a-l, and an actress named Karen Morley. These are the names that I remember as members of those various branches.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where Karen Morley is now ? SMr. TOWNSEND. No, sir; I do not. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Now will you proceed with the naming of others that you can recall.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Those are the names that I recall as members of these particular branches.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned a little earlier in your testimony the name of Nicholas Bela, who was one of those members of the first group to which you were assigned upon joining the Communist Party. Will you identify that individual more fully.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I don't know what his occupation was. He was not, to my knowledge, a screen writer. I did attend a large meeting at his home in Beverly Hills, at which there were some 40 to 50 people present. I was told that this comprised most of the Communist screen writers within the Screen Writers' Guild. This was shortly after I had joined the party, possibly in the summer or spring of 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Ring Lardner, Jr.?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. I don't believe I was ever in a party branch with Mr. Lardner.
Mr. TAVENNER. The first meeting which you described as having occurred when you received the telephone message from Marjorie MacGregor was held at what place, if you recall?
Mr. TOWNSEND. At the home of Harold Buchman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Harold Buchman ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What position did Harold Buchman have in the industry ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Harold Buchman was a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any other branches of the Communist Party other than those you have already described?
Mr. TOWNSEND. As I mentioned before, I was in this branch of the Communist Political Association from July of 1944 until the summer of 1945, when the Duclos letter arrived and the political association very shortly became once more the Communist Pairty. You have undoubtedly heard a lot about the Duclos letter here?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; the committee has heard a lot about it but will you just state in a general way what was involved with the Duclos letter?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, the war now was over. Evidently, as far as the Soviet Union was concerned, it and the United States were no longer allies. I don't believe we knew that here at the time. ' INDUSTRY 1515 Duclos was a French Communist leader who expressed, I am sure, the direction of the party leadership in Moscow. He denounced the American leadership of Earl Browder for harboring the notion that capitalism and communism could exist peacefully in one world. This happened to be the notion that the Soviet Union fostered itself not more than a year or two before that. Now, of course, with the war over, when they no longer needed us, this became a false premise. We in the branches were told, were asked to vote, and we were given copies of the Duclos letter, of Browder's rebuttal, and then the rebuttal of Browder by the national executive Communist leadership in New York, all of whom seemed to agree suddenly with Mr. Duclos. This seemed a little strange to me at the time. We in the branches were asked to discuss this and vote on the ouster of Mr. Browder. Well, we did vote. You see, the party had a phrase called democratic centralism. This means, according to the party, that all major decisions actually start from the bottom, from the rank and file, and sift up to the top, to the party leadership, which then puts this directive of the rank and file into action. In actuality the reverse was true. The directives came from the top, which I supposed to be in the New York headquarters, or which I supposed there is a level above that in Moscow. The directives sift down to the rank and file from various levels so that the phrase "democratic centralism" actually had no meaning. There was plenty of centralism but no democracy. We voted on this. While we were in the process of voting the fact had already been accomplished. Mr. Browder had already been ousted. I don't know what they did with our votes.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result of the Duclos letter there was a considerable amount of consternation within the membership of the Communist Party in Hollywood, was there not ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. There was, indeed. It took the party here by complete surprise. People didn't believe it at first, until they were shown the Duclos letter, until they realized that the party directive was to support Duclos. Mr. Browder, who had been a party hero up until, say, a late hour on a certain evening, became an arch villain early the next morning. This has happened in other cases, too, where people in the party, the hero-villain role seems to be quite interchangeable.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there consequently meetings of the Communist Party in Hollywood held in an effort to whip the membership into the same line of thinking ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. We met quite often. Communists meet pretty often under normal circumstances. During this period it seemed to me there were continuous meetings. I believe we all thought that we were discussing this democratically. We didn't realize that all our-that we were wasting our time and effort because it had all been decided by the top leadership anyway.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who took the leadership in those discussions?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, I am sure it must have been John Howard Lawson who was actually the leader of that section of the Communist Party. 1516 INDUSTRY 
Mr. T.AVENNER. Do you recall where the specific meetings were. held in which this subject was discussed?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, I am sure that some of them were held at my home. They were held at the homes of members of the branch. It would be at the homes of some of these other people whom I have named. I can remember specifically only that some were held at my home.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am going to ask you at this time if you can recall the names of any other persons known to you to be members of the Communist Party. \ Mr. TOWNSEND. I had met certain people who were Communist Party functionaries. I had met a few people in so-called fraction meetings of the Screen Writers' Guild, people whom I hadn't met within any of my several branches. The party functionaries I met; there was a girl named Elizabeth Leach, I believe that is L-e-a-c-h, I'm not sure. 1 Her husband, Charles: GlennMr. TAVENNER. G-l-e-n-n-?
Mr. TOWNSEND. G-l-e-n-n. I believe he was at one time connected with the People's World. I think at the time I saw him in fraction meetings he had a functionary paid position with the Communist Party. There was a man named John Stapp, S-t-a-p-p, who seemed to be the contact between the downtown .or county organization and the- so-called Hollywood section. He would sometimes appear at fraction meetings of writers within the guild. These fraction meetings were held, as a rule, before any important matter was to come up before theentire membership of the Screen Writers' Guild. I remember specifically election periods. We would meet in a fraction for the purposes of electioneering purposes, of getting as many Communists on the board of the guild as possible for the purpose of campaigning amongnon-Communists.
Mr. TAVENNTER. Now, I want to ask you a little more in detail about those fraction meetings and the work within the various guilds at a later point in your testimony. I believe it would be a little clearerfor our present purposes now to go into those matters in detail.
Mr. TOWNSEND. All right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You were giving us the names of Communist Party functionaries.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Carl Winter?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. Not acquainted, but he was present at themeeting I have previously mentioned at the home of Nicholas Bela in the summer of 1943. I believe at that time he was the county chairman of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were there other functionaries of the party whose names you can give us ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I met a man named Max Silver. I don't know what his party connection was; a man named Nemmy Sparks who wasMr. TAVENNER. What is the spelling of Nemmy .
Mr. TOWNSEND. N-e-m-m-y. He was the county chairman, I be- lieve. 2 In Whether he followed Carl Winter directly or not, I don't recall. some instances, referred to as Elizabeth Leech Glenn.  1517 
Mr. TAVENNER. You also spoke of having had occasion to meet various people in fraction meetings. I wonder if you can give us the names now at this time of persons whom you met inl fraction meetings whose names you have not previously mentioned.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. I was about to say that most of the names whom I previously mentioned who were screen writers would be present at these fraction meetings; in addition to that I recall a writer named Alvah Bessie, B-e-s-s-i-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. The first name is A-1-v-a-l ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; and a writer named Arnold Manoff, M-a-n-o-f-f, and a writer named Edward Huebsch, which is spelled H-u-e-b-s-c-h.
Mr. TAVENNER. H-u-e-b-s-c-h?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Mortimer Offner? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; I was. At one time shortly before I left the Communist Party-I think this must have been late in 1947, in the early part of 1948, I was serving as an officer of the branch I was in at that time. I was financial director. My duty was to collect dues and assessments from the members of the branch and to turn them over to, I believe the title was, the section financial director, and this section financial director was Mr. Offner. I turned the money over to him. Where it went from there I don't know. I suppose to the county office and then, I suppose, from there to the national office.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Larry Parks?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Larry Parks I recall at one meeting of one branch, perhaps in 1945. He may have attended twice. I think it was once, and I never saw him again within the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Joy Pepper?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; I was. The financial directors of the branches met with the sectional financial director to turn over the dues they had collected. I think I met-this was a quarterly assignment. I think I met twice with this group at the home of Joy Pepper in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Mike Wilson?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Not within-he was not in a branch'with me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Sidney Benson?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; in my last branch, Sidney Benson appeared. There was some controversy within the branch, argument about the Communist Party. Some of us felt that it was not an American party. Others felt that it was. Sidney Benson was the functionary called in to defeat those of us who held this, what they considered false position. Anti-Soviet position it was called, and Mr. Benson hammered us over the head for a whole evening, and I didn't see him again at any party meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted wth Pauline Lauber ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I could not say for sure that she was in a branch with me. I am acquainted with Pauline Lauber; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a member of the Communist Party, to your knowledge? 1518  
Mr. TOWNSEND. I suppose she was, but under oath I cannot say that she was. I have
Mr. T.VENNER. Now, if you are in doubt, I would rather for you not to sa-Mr. TOWNSEND. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). That you suppose she is. If you have no knowledge of your own that an individual is a member of the Communist Party, I would rather for you to state that you do not have that knowledge.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I certainly will not name anyone that I do not know 'definitely to be a member of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. The other persons to whom you have referred up until the present time, are they persons known to you to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. You mean the peopleMr. TAVENNER. The others that you have named.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Are they known to me to be members of the party at the present time, you mean ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No; to have been members of the Communist Party.
Mr. TowNSEND. Yes, yes. Yes, sir; they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Meta Reis Rosenberg?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Again, she may have been in a branch. I don't think so. I know her. I don't think that she was in a party branch with me.
Mr. TAVENNER. She has testified before the committee and has admitted that she was formerly a member and is no longer associated with the Communist PartyMr. TOWNSEND. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). But I do not recall what branch of the party. Now, have you held any position, other than that of financial director, that you mentioned, in the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. During, I think, 1944-I mean, after my return from the OSS, during that period and 1945 I held the position of literature director in my branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were your duties as literature director ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. My duties were to go to the Communist book store between meetings, pick up the current pamphlets and leaflets which had been sent there by the national office in New York, take them to the next meeting, distribute them, sell them, push them. This book store was called the Lincoln Book Shop on Highland Avenue in Hollywood. I went there, identified myself as the literature director of this certain branch, was taken by the proprietor to the back room. It wasn't a locked back room, nothing that secretive about it, simply partitioned, but in the back room they had the boxes of pamphlets, leaflets, books, whatever the national party was pushing at the time came out in those various forms. This man would suggest to me what I should take. I would then take this material to the branch meetings, sell them to the members. Now, as I say, these pamphlets and leaflets conformed directly to the party's line at the moment. For example, in 1944 and early-most or half of 1945, the party was pushing Earl Browder's Victory and After. This was the book which stated that the goals of the United States and the Soviet Union were largely the same; that we could be allies not only in war but in ! INDUSTRY 1519 peace, and that capitalism and communism could exist peacefully in one world. Pamphlets. This book was pushed excessively. We were to not only buy copies of it, ourselves, but see that it was distributed largely in the community. Also, there was the open-the-second-front drive. I am trying to say that these things are all tied in with the national party directives so that we, as a branch, through the medium of the party literature, could then carry out the party directive. I am trying to say that we acted as directed.
Mr. TAVENNER. You did what? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. We acted as directed by the party headquarters.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, the programs that you held in your Communist Party meetings where the Communist Party line was discussed related to certain definite subjects frequently?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, of course.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, when you went to the book shop to obtain the literature which was to be used in subsequent meetings, was that literature picked out for you and was it designated for you, or did you, yourself, have to select that material which conformed to the Communist Party line that was then being discussed ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. It had been selected for me by the proprietor of the book shop. If I wanted something else in addition to this, I was at liberty to take it, but there was always a suggestion by the proprietor of the book shop what is good this week.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you inform the head of the book shop as to the character of the material you wanted or did he tell you what was in conformity with the line which was being discussed ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. He told me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, that indicates, then, a preconceived plan, an organized plan by which the pro-Communist line was to be imparted to the membership at your meetings and through the literature.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Oh, definitely. I think the literature played a very important part from the viewpoint of the national headquarters of the party. This was one of the weapons to keep the membership in line. (At this time Representative Charles E. Potter left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Then that indicates that the Communist Party book shop played a very important function in imparting the Communist Party line at the Communist Party meetings.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; certainly it did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the head of the Communist Party book shop, I believe you said the LincolnMr. TOWNSEND. Lincoln Book Shop.
Mr. TAVENNER. Book Shop? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am sorry, I remember him only as a man named Jack.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there other Communist Party book shops in Los Angeles, to your knowledge, at that time?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I was told there was one on Seventh Street, I believe, called the Progressive Book Shop. Other than that, I do not know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, did you hold any other positions within the Communist Party? 1520  
Mr. TOWNSEND. No; the literature director position and that of financial director.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, when you were financial director did you have the responsibility of collecting dues of the members?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I did; yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When special assessments were made, did you have anything to do with that phase of the work ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. At the time I was financial director, I don't recall any particular special assessment. I remember that at a period shortly before that there was a drive for a sum-I think $60,000 for some emergency. This was to go back to New York. How this was met, I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember what that emergency was?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I'm sorry, I don't. I believe it was in 1946. I can't relate it at the moment to the political climate of that particular time. I do remember that in order to raise it I was told that some members of the party here were mortgaging their homes and turning over the mortgage money for this fund. I didn't mortgage my home. I have only heard this. Again, I want to make sure that this was something I simply heard. I don't know this to be a fact.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether it had anything to do with the Far East situation or any work that was being done by the Communist Party in the Far East ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I would think not. I am not sure. It was money needed directly by the party in New York. I don't recall whether there was any defense of the party at that time, money needed for that. I'm sorry I don't recall what this money was needed for.
Mr. WOOD. I believe at this point the committee will take a recess for 20 minutes. (A recess was taken.) (At this point Representative Charles E. Potter returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. WooD. We will have order. Mr. Counsel, are you ready to proceed ? i Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Will the witness return to the stand.
Mr. WOOD. Will the witness return to the stand, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Townsend, at the time of the recess you were telling us about the performance of your duties as financial director of your particular unit of the Communist Party. Was your work confined to that of collection of dues ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; my work was confined to the collection of dues and assessments from the members of this particular branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the dues and assessments?
Mr. TOWNSEND. The dues, as I recall, were rather nominal; perhaps a dollar a month. The assessments were on a percentage basis, a percentage of salary. Whether it was 3 or 4 percent after the agent's commission was deducted-I am speaking now of writers-I am not sure. I know that between 1943, through 1946, I paid assessments of from $20 to $80 per quarter, depending upon my income. I also sup-. ported the party press with subscriptions and contributions amounting to about $50 a year. I supported various other organizations in 1943 to the amount of about $400, organizations such as the Council of American-Soviet Friendship, Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Commit- ! INDUSTRY 1521 tee, and the Hollywood Democratic Committee. In 1944 I have a notation of a total of $200, and an prganization to which I contributed $5 a month during that period was the People's Educational Association. In 1945 I have a notation of $250, partly to People's Educational Association, partly to the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee. In 1946 I have a notation of $500, mainly to the same organizations. This was in addition to my party dues and assessments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Those items, you say, were in addition to the dues and assessments?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. Now, when I was financial director during 1947-the latter part of 1947 and the first half of 1948, I would say, most of the high-salaried writers by that time were not employed, so I never collected a large amount of dues or assessments. I think in these two meetings I had with the section financial director in which I turned over money, I don't think at either time I turned over in excess of $200.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you spoke of an item of $500-Mr. TOWNSEND. That was
Mr. TAVENNER. Contributed by you personally to certain organizations.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the type of organizations to which you
Mr. TOWNSEND. Those which I have read to you.
Mr. TAVENNER. What instructions did you receive, if any, from the leadership in the Communist Party as to your activity in outside organizations ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. We were all asked or directed, let me say, to work in what was called a mass organization, whether that be the Screen Writers' Guild, whether it be the Independent Citizens Committee which is now the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council-we were asked to enter some organization and to work in that organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, your work in those organizations constituted part of your assignmentMr. TowNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a member of the
Mr. TOWNSEND. That's right. Communist Party? 
Mr. TAIENNER. Were you a member of the Screen Writers' Guild? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe your activity in the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TOWNSEND. From the Communist- 
Mr. TAVENNER. While a member.
Mr. TOWNSEFND. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. From the standpoint of your membership in the Communist Party.
Mr. TOWNSBEND. Well, I attended fraction meetings of the writers within the guild whenever an issue was coming before the membership of the guild, whenever an important election was coming up. I, myself, served on the board of the guild in 1946 and 1947, I believe, up until the guild elections in 1947. At that time-I must say in my opinion that the Communist minority never controlled the Screen Writers' Guild. The vast majority of the membership somehow 1522 managed to keep it democratic and act as a majority does by running it. I believe finally in 1947 they got a little sick of the Communist speech making within the guild, and I believe at that time the elections were in November, the board elections, I believe. Prior to that a great majority of the members of the guild formed an organization which went. to work to defeat the Communists within the guild, and I must say that in 1947 they destroyed the Communist influence in the guild completely and, as far as I know, there is no Communist in any position of importance in the Screen Writers' Guild today or has been since that time. M1r. TAVENNER. Was there concerted effort on the part of the Communist Party to capture the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am sure it would be their desire to capture it, to control the Screen Writers' Guild, just as it was their desire to control what the screen writer could do in the motion-picture industry, to control the medium, to control the content of film, and I must say that I think they got not even one step toward first base in this with the motion-picture industry. I don't know of any Communist motion picture, nor do I know of any motion picture with Communist propaganda. I don't think that the Communists succeeded in the least in getting any propaganda into any motion picture. I think the industry has been very, very careful about this and very good about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what, in your opinion, was the purpose of the Communist Party in making an effort to capture the Screen Writers' Guild, or, might I say, to recruit into the Communist Party screen writers?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, one of the purposes could be that there were many high-salaried people among the screen writers. This meant a great source of income to the party, it meant prestige in some casesit meant-it gave them an effective weapon. A writer, obviously, can write; the party needs writing. I am thinking in terms of the strike situation, the studio strike situation.
Mr. TAVENNER. At times writers become quite vocal; do they not?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; sometimes too vocal. I hope I am not being so.
Mr. TAVENNER. I had intended to make no inference of that kind.
Mr. WALTER. He was here all morning.
Mr. TAVENNER. If the Communist Party could control the thinking of the writers by indoctrination, would it, not to a great extent control the content of films and even in an insidious manner?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am afraid not, sir, because the steps are many between the script and the film as you see it on the screen. It must go from the writer to the producer, the director, in some cases an executive producer, and in some cases the head of the studio. I don't believe that any heads of any studios in town are now or have ever been members of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would that not mean in effect that the success of the Communist Party would be limited, only by the alertness of those in the industry who had the great responsibility of reviewing films?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; of course. I think they have been extremely alert.
Mr. TAVENNER. But for alertness the Communist Party would, through its indoctrination of writers, have been able to exert an influ-  1523 ence and effect upon films which would not be to the best public interest of this country?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I still think that they couldn't accomplish this without also indoctrinating the Screen Directors' Guild, indoctrinating the producers and indoctrinating the executive heads of the studios. This is a difficult task.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of fraction meetings within the Screen Writers' Guild at the time you were a member. By fraction meetings do you mean the meetings of Communist Party members of the guild ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, that's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Communist members who were also members of the guild would meet in these fraction meetings for what purpose ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. To set a plan of operation at the membership meet- ing of the guild. Sometimes it would be decided who would speak, who would make a speech on a certain issue, and who would follow him. Especially if electioneering. This fraction was effective because it had a chance to push candidates for the board who were members of the Communist Party, because each of us was given a list of 10 or 15 noncommunist members of the guild and directed to campaign with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were members of the Communist Party who met with you in fraction meetings of the guild ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, as I say, most of the people I have named as being present in branches would have been there and in addition these names I recall as having seen at fraction meetings and not having seen in the branch meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a matter of fact, all writers were required to be members of the guild; were they not ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Oh, yes. I think the guild had an 80-percent shop, I believe it is called, with the Producers' Association. Eighty percent of the people employed at studios had to be members of the guild. So that any writer, actually, should be a member of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to your best. judgment, what was the maximum number of members of the Screen Writers' Guild who were at any time during your membership members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I think that maximum was approximately 50 Com- munist members of the Screen Writers' Guild and I .think that was probably in 1944. I believe that was the peak, and it gradually dwindled from there on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were Communist Party publications, such as Polit- ical Affairs, used as a source of determining the current Communist Party line at meetings of the Communist cells which you attended; that is, within the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. You are referring to the Communist branches of which I was a member.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, let us direct the question to that point.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. Well, the magazine Political Affairs had once been called The Communist, I believe, and during the'Communist Political Association-is that the word, I forget-period, it became Political Affairs. Often there was a report by a member of a branch 81595-51-pt. 4-8 1524  to the branch and material for this report would be obtained, as a rule, from one of the party publications such as Political Affairs.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have had considerable testimony from witnesses who were members of the Screen Writers' Guild, and others, as to the effort made by the Communist Party to capture both the guilds and the unions in the industry and we have had considerable evidence relating to strikes which occurred. I would like to ask you whether during any of the wage disputes, or jurisdictional disputes, or strikes, you, as a Communist, received any instructions or directions from the Communist Party as to your participation in any manner or form.
Mr TOWNSEND. Yes. I was asked, or I believe all of our branches were asked-members in the branches were asked-to volunteer as observers of the picket lines. Observers were supposed to report any show of violence or brutality on the picket lines. I didn't see any. I suppose the reason for this now was that if there were such an activity the Communist Party could use it for propaganda means.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did any incident come to your attention where members of the Communist Party purposely provoked an incident which could be used by them for propaganda purposes? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I can't say that I know of such an incident. You mean that the Communists provoked a show of violence?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. In order to be able to use it.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I'm sorry; I don't know. I was asked, as other Communist members of the guild were asked during the strike, to help write pamphlets and leaflets for the Conference of Studio Unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive any direction from the Communist Party to aid in any manner in the propaganda work that was done, in connectionMr. TOWNSEND. You may not have heard my last answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Maybe I did not.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I said that I, as well as other writer Communists, were asked to write pamphlets and leaflets in support of the Conference of Studio Unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you spoke of acting as observer, were you re- quested to act in that capacity by the Communist Party?
Mr. TOWNSEND. As I recall it, I was requested to act in that capacity. The request came through a branch meeting of the Communist Party. There had been a committee set up, I don't recall now whether this was set up by the Communist Party, but there were non-Communists on the committee, as I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted or did you become acquainted while a member of the Communist Party with a person by the name of Ben Barzman, B-a-r-z-m-a-n?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, Ben Barzman was in a branch with me. I did not name him this morning. I had forgotten that name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any others whose names that you can now recall? Let me ask you at that point, do you know whether or not his wife was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, she also was a member of the same branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her name? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Norma. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Describe Mr. Barzman a little further for the committee. COMMUNISM 
Mr. IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. Barzman was a screen writer. a physical description ? TOWNSEND. 1525 Do you mean 
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, his occupation.
Mr. TOWNSEND. His occupation was that of a screen writer. I don't know his credits.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well.
Mr. TOWNSEND. The only other person I recall is a person who has been out of the party, as far as I know, for some time. Her name is Bess Taffel. She was in a branch with me, I think, in 1945; attended quite irregularly and then disappeared completely. I was advised she had left the party at that time.- I haven't seen her since, so I don't know. I am sure she is still out.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her occupation?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know a person by the name of Alfred Louis Levitt ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Not within the party branch, no.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know a person by the name of Leo Bigelman ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. At one time during my membership he conducted' a class in Marxism, I believe it was, at which my wife and I attended. This ran for about 1 night a week for 6 weeks, I believe. This must have been in 19-I am guessing-44.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was this a Communist Party meeting which Dr. Bigelman was conducting?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I take it for granted it was. It was classes in Marxism. Whether the people attending them were all Communists or not, I don't know. I would take it for granted that the instructor would be Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Dan James?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Not within-I know Dan James.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you, of your own knowledge, know that he was a member of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I had heard that he had left the Communist Party. I don't know whether you would consider that knowledge of membership.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you hear that from him or from some outside source?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I heard it from him. 
Mr. TAVENNER. From him ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I think that is direct testimony. Now, what were the circumstances under which you heard that?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Simply that I told him I had been out since 1948 and that he told me he also had left the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Marguerite Roberts ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I know her. I was never in a party branch with Marguerite Roberts. 1526 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. You have described for the committee the general effect of the Duclos letter and the results in this community. What effect did the Duclos letter have upon you, individually ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, it was the first indication to me that this organization was not a democratic one. I probably should have left the party at that time. I must say it is rather difficult to leave the party. It seems quite easy to get into it, or did at that time; difficult to leave, because once one has been in the party for several years he becomes more or less insulated against the outside world. You see only Communist people as a rule. Your thinking is done for you by directive. Now, to get out, unless you get out emotionally, which I did not-to get out takes a long period of individual thinking, gradual realization of what this party is, that it is not a political party; that it is not an American party. This, in my case, took a little time to come to these several conclusions, and I would like to say a few things about that, but before that I would like to say that even after one leaves the party there are still emotional, personal ties which carry on for a certain period, and I want to give two examples. I had been out of the party over a year when Lester Cole came to me, asked me to write a story, an original for the screen with him which would be submitted under my name for sale to the motion picture industry. I agreed on an emotional, personal basis, because Mr. Cole was shortly going to jail. He had a wife and two children. I thought perhaps a little money would help them. The story did not sell. About 2 months after that
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you in that connectionMr. TOWNSEND. Yes?
Mr. TAVENNER. Did anyone in the production-that phase of the business, the producer or director, have any knowledge of this arrangement?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Only the agent who was selling the story or was attempting to sell it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was he?
Mr. TOWNSEND. George Willner.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.
Mr. TOWNSEND. A couple of months after this, in the spring-early spring of 1950, Mr. Willner called me and told me that Dalton Trumbo was in desperate need of money. He, too, was about to go to jail. He had written an original for the screen. Would I lend my name to it? Well, again, emotionally and personally, I agreed on the basis that if it sold I would get no money. Trumbo had a wife and, I believe, three children, none of whom were Communists, who might need money during his incarceration. I agreed to do this. Again, this story did not sell. Now, a month or so after that the North Koreans I think inspired by the Soviet Union, started the Korean war and I realized at that moment one could no longer have emotional or personal ties with the Communist Party or members of it. If I may further answer the question about my leaving the party, what process I went through-if that is in order now. Is it?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. I would like for you to describe any condition that you desire to describe relating to your leaving the party and in doing it, the thing that I am certain the committee is interested in is to ' INDUSTRY 1527 have such knowledge within your possession that would enable them to conclude in their own minds whether your break with the Communist Party has been definite, complete, and final.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. Well, when one goes into a period of individual thinking, individual consideration, as I say it is difficult. You must, in a sense, remove yourself from this group even though you are still in it. I had come to the conclusion that a member of the Communist Party has a double'allegiance. He claims he is loyal to the United States, while at the same time his party membership makes him loyal to the Soviet Union. In his heart he must be loyal to the Soviet Union. In time of crisis, I think he will be asked to choose between these two allegiances, hnd I think he will choose his first allegiance, which is to the party, and which, in turn, is to the Soviet Union. I think an example of that-I was quite shocked at the testimony in Washington of Waldo Salt when he was asked what I thought to be a very simple question which, I believe, was in case of an unprovoked attack by the Soviet Union upon the United States would you defend the United States ? This gentleman did not, as far as I know, answer this question. He argued with the committee. He obviously hadn't settled the matter in his own mind. There may be others. Wouldn't you say that such a person is potentially dangerous ? I would. I think there is no place in the Communist Party for a loyal American, nor is there a place in America for a group which calls itself an American political party but which is, in essence, a conspiratorial organization devoted to the destruction of American democracy. Now, I want to say, too, that the Communists have been blaming these investigations of this committee, as they blame every attempt to unmask the party for silencing on its liberal opinion. I think that the Communists have neutralized the liberals. I think the Communists in a large sense have destroyed the liberal movement in this country. I think that by their treating everything as black and white-I think that a man can be politically left of center without being a Communist, just as he can be right of center without being a Fascist, and I believe-I would like to say this as a personal thought. I think there are a few misguided liberals who may not speak to me as the result of my testimony here, and I say that these people are still living in an age of innocence. Several years ago all of us fought with all our might against German and Italian fascism. Today there is a section of people who shut their eyes to Soviet fascism. I think it is time that they open them; if what I say here and if what this committee does here can help those people, I think that this will show a large measure of success in addition to what the other committee is doing. I would like to quote, if I may, just a couple of sentences from an interesting article I read in a recent issue of the Saturday Review of Literature by Mr. Peter Varat, associate professor at Mount Holyoke College, in line with this very thing. He says: This kind of liberal tends to avoid the real facts of Soviet Russia, such as the enormous aid given to Germany during the Hitler-Stalin Pact; the Stalinist purge of all Lenin-Marxist associates; the postwar anti-Semitic drive in the Soviet Union; the slave labor camps; increasing class lines and pay differentials between Soviet rich and poor, so much greater than the capitalist United States. I think that the Communists who decry the lack of freedom in this country haven't given thought to the amount of freedom allowed the people in the Soviet Union. Let's say the artists, the sciences, 1528  and professions, to use the title of this organization. It is art by decree, science by decree, writing by decree. The Constitution of the Soviet Union-I have read it and it is a beautiful document. It guarantees freedom of the press, freedom of religion. Among other things I take this to mean, freedom of religion to mean freedom to worship Stalin to whatever extent one wishes; freedom of the press, I must say, must mean freedom to read every issue of Pravda or every other issue of Pravda. There isn't much choice. I think, also, that there have been charges that this committee has bedn smearing Hollywood. Again this is the Communist tactic of reversing the actual situation, because when a man says, "I am not on trial here, the committee is on trial," I believe someone said that at an earlier hearing. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. TOWNSEND. In my opinion I think the smearing of the indus- try has been done by the Communist Party, a small minority within this basically decent industry and basically decent community. I think that this community, together with the motion-picture industry. can, with this hearing, put an end to the Communist smear campaign. I would like to say for myself that I am grateful for the dignity and fairness with which I have been' treated and with which this committee operates. I am convinced that you are after information, not headlines. I think there is no martyrdom here except those who choose martyrdom. I would like to say that I have aided this committee, as I believe we face a strong potential enemy abroad, an enemy which shouts of peace while it prepares for war, while it is aiding-and killing Americans in Korea at this moment. I think to keep our Nation strong all of us who can help must do what we can to expose the enemy within our country.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Before yielding to the members of the committee for such questions as they may desire to ask the witness, it is approaching the noon hour and we will take a recess for 1 hour. (Whereupon a recess was taken at 12: 30 p. m. until 1: 30 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (Whereupon, at the hour of 1:50 p. m. of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, the same parties being present.)
Mr. WOOD. The committee will be in order, please. I would like to take advantage of. this opportunity to reannounce and reaffirm the long-standing policy of this committee that any person whose name is identified before this committee in testimony of any other witness as having been connected or associated with either the Communist Party or any other subversive organization, that this committee will be glad to afford them an opportunity to appear before the committee at such time as may be mutually arranged for the purpose of replying to such accusation, denying or explaining the same. Are you ready to proceed, Mr. Counsel ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.  1529 If your Honor recalls, the witness, Mr. Leo Townsend, was on the stand and the committee members had not yet questioned him.
Mr. WOOD. Will Mr. Townsend return to the stand. TESTIMONY OF LEO TOWNSEND-Resumed
Mr.'WALTER. Mr. Townsend, I want to take this opportunity to congratulate you on having the courage to come here and make the statement that you made. I know it wasn't an easy thing to do but you have made a great contribution in the struggle for freedom and I congratulate you.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I thank you. I felt that I was speaking not only for myself but for the motion-picture industry.
Mr. WALTER. During the course of your testimony you deplored the fact that the United States Communists have not stated their goal and aims at this time. In view of that fact don't you feel that the goals and aims are the same as they were before Korea ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, I think their goals and aims change ac- cording to the change of policy of the Soviet Union. What I said was that they have not openly, as far as I know, proclaimed these aims to the American people. position. I think that this is a dishonest 
Mr. WALTER. That being the fact, don't you think it is safe to conclude that their aims are what they have always been, namely world domination?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. Their aims are the aims of the Soviet Union, in my opinion.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Townsend, you stated that you aided in the activities of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. Was that a Communist-front organization ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am quite sure it was. I aided it in terms of contributing money.
Mr. WALTER. Yes. 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, it was a Communist-front organization.
Mr. WALTER. Was it a Communist organization throughout the United States or just in particular parts of it ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I have no knowledge of other branches of it. The organization here was fostered by Communists.
Mr. WALTER. In your-contact with Communists, have you discussed with them the known conditions that exist behind the iron curtain?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I have tried to from time to time, but Communists seem completely to disregard these facts. They refuse, somehow, to believe them.
Mr. WALTER. What do they have to say about the avowed purpose of liquidating free nations, Latvia, Estonia, and Lithuania?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I believe that that, in Communist parlance, is called "liberating these nations."
Mr. WALTER. Liberating?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. WALTER. Do you suppose the same term is used in describing what is happening in Poland today where approximately 5 million of the intelligentsia have been liberated? 1530 COL IMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, of course, I think that is the Communist Soviet pattern with all those nations, that they move in; they take over the nation; soon there is no freedom of thought, religion, or anything. It becomesM.r. WA.LTER. I understand that, of course, but having had much to do with the displaced persons program, it so happens that I am chairman of the Immigration Committee and I know much of the conditions that exist in Europe, conditions that we attempted to alleviate. It is inconceivable to me that any American would be willing to belong to an organization associated with another group doing the things a'nd having done the things that have been done throughout the world.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, I agree with you there. I can't understand it, myself.
Mr. WooD. Is that all, Mr. Walter?
Mr. WALTER. That is all, Mr. Wood.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Townsend, in answering questions directed to you by my distinguished colleague from Pennsylvania just now, Mr. Walter, I notice you, with reference to the three nations he questioned you about, said the Soviet theory of that was the liberation. You remember you used the term "liberation." Am I to understand from you, therefore, that that same term is now applied or was applied to our own country during the time you were a Communist ? In other words, ivould they apply the same terms toward their thinking of our country? Would they undertake to liberate our country in the same way ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I don't recall any discussion of that in terms of the European countries. It may have been a long-range program. There was no immediate necessity for liberating, or chance for, shall we say, liberating the United States.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, merely because they thought there was no chance to apply force and violence toward liberating, under the Soviet theory, the United States from its capitalistic system, they didn't apply the term ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That's right.
Mr. DOYLE. Why did you go to Warner Bros. and tell them your story? You related that "Warner Bros. told me my testimony would in no way affect my employment."
Mr. TOWNSEND. That's right.
Mr. DOYLE. Why did you go to them ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I felt I should be honest with them. If they had not known that I had been a member of the Communist Party, if they had not known that I had been subpenaed, if they had not known that I was to appear before this committee. I wanted to be completely honest with them. I went to them, told them I had been subpenaed, told them I planned to testify. They said, "Your testimony will in no way affect your employment here. We feel that anyone who cooperates with this committee is doing the industry a service."
Mr. DOYLE. I wish to say, in answer to my question, it was very commendable of Warner Bros. to so declare to you.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I agree completely.
Mr. DOYLE. That is certainly evidence of cooperation on the part -of the employer in an effort to help clean up the mess.  INDUSTRY 1531 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I know I didn't ask them to take this stand, this came voluntarily from Warner Bros. 
Mr. DOYLE. This morning you stated you wondered if there were ways you could help cure conditions. You stated there had been two wars, there had been a depression, we were then at war with Germany, and we were allies of Russia. Do you remember the portion of the testimony to which I am directing your attention now ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, I do. 
Mr. DOYLE. What made you come to the conclusion, if anything, that within the structure of the existing political party framework you couldn't give expression to your own problems and viewpoints? What was it that made you reach out to find some other avenue? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Simply that I got the feeling that this other group was working more actively at that moment toward the goals. And this is true, they were at that time because it happened to suit the policy of the Soviet Union.
Mr. DOYLE. Did the depression have any definite effect on your thinking ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. On my thinking? 
Mr. DOYLE. Yes.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, of course. I think it had an effect on the think- ing of a lot of Americans.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated, "I feel I should cooperate with the Con- gressmen. If I don't cooperate now I would share the responsibility of conditions that might develop." What conditions do you have in mind that might develop over which you would feel a portion of responsibility if you did not come in and make a clean breast of it, as you have done today, and help clean up the mess ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am thinking of conditions such as say a time of national emergency, say a possible war between the United States and the Soviet Union, which I hope will not take place. In such an emergency my fear is that people who are at present members of the Communist Party, who are used to taking directives, will continue totake directives, and if they are asked to commit an act of violence some of them may.
Mr. DOYLE. Am I to understand then that the import of your answer is, or does it go this far, that your belief is that generally speaking the members of the Communist Party would, if there was war between Soviet Russia and the United States of America, that generally speaking the members of the American Communist Party would share sympathy and possibly action with the Soviet Union in preference to the United States ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. As I said before, I think that members of the Communist Party in America must have a double allegiance. In time of crisis if they are asked to make a choice they will choose their first allegiance, which I am convinced will be to the Communist Party, which is to the Soviet Union.
Mr. DOYLE. I asked you that question because following the party line, according to your testimony, it logically leads to the bearing of arms of a Communist for the Soviet Union against the United States of America, doesn't it?
Mr. TOWNSEND. You mean a Communist would tend to work within this country against the country?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. 1532 INDUSTRY IMr. TOWNSEx. That's possible, yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Doesn't your testimony go to that point?
Mr. TowNxsEx. . Well, it would be very difficult for a man openly to support the Soviet Union in a war when the Soviet Union is not here. What I mean to say is if they should attack and overcome this country it might be a little simpler for a person to join the Soviet forces. 
Mr. DOYLE. You stated, "It became clear to me that now that the war was over the Soviet Union and the United States were no longer allies and the party line changed." That may not be the exact word- ing of it, but it is the substance of it. What did you mean by that?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I meant that when the war was over the Soviet Union no longer needed the United States as an ally. The Soviet Union now was going on its own. I think it had started the process of world conquest and would be very difficult to do in alliance with a democracy.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated in substance that "some of us felt it was not an American party. Others felt that it was. Sidney Benson was the functionary called in to defeat those of us who held this, what they considered false position. Anti-Soviet position it was called, and 
Mr. Benson hammered us over the head for a whole evening, and I didn't see him again at any party meeting." What was the basis of that statement by you ? Do I understand that Benson, the Communist leader at this meeting, was advocating that you take the position of the Soviet Union against the position of the United States of America? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. He was advocating that we follow the party line and that we have no argument with it.
Mr. DOYLE. The party line wasMr. TOWNSEND. The party line is always the line of the Soviet Union. 
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, you couldn't debate and discuss and have any difference of opinion with the party line as given to you from the top? .
Mr. TOWNSEND. There was no discussion within the party of any possible, let me say, wrong within the Soviet Union. 
Mr. DOYLE. I will ask you this question. You referred to the Lincoln Book Shop and the Progressive Book Shop in Los Angeles. Did you have knowledge personally, or was it your belief that these book shops were actively supported by and part and parcel of the Communist program in this country?
Mr. TOWNSEND. It was my firm belief that the Lincoln Book Shop was set up by the Communist Party in town, yes. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. How about the Progressive Book Shop?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I had no contact with that shop, so I don't know.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated, "We were all directed to work in mass or- ganizations, we were asked to work in other organizations." You didn't state at that time what you did in other organizations in any detail. What did you do in any other organizations following your- ' INDUSTRY 1533 
Mr. TOWNSEND. I did state that I, as a member of the Screen Writers' Guild, worked to get myself on the board of the guild. That was considered my mass organization.
Mr. DOYLE. Why would you want to work to get yourself on the board?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Because it was felt by the party that if a number of Communists were on the board they might be able to direct the thinking of the guild. This they never accomplished, I might say.
Mr. DOYLE. By directing the thinking of the guild, that would lead, would it not, logically, or am I in error, at least to indirect control of the thinking of men that were writing screen scenarios?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Indirectly, yes; but again I must say there never was any control by the Communist Party of either the Screen Writers' Guild or the content of films. I would like, if I may, at this point to disagree with yesterday's witness, Mr. Ashe. I believe he said that he detected, as an expert, several instances of Communist propaganda in American films. I am not quoting him directly, but this is as I recall it. He was, to my knowledge, not in the motion-picture industry. I suppose I can call myself an expert, too. I am at. least in the motion-picture industry, and I don't know of any Communist propaganda in motion pictures. I think he referred to the motion picture, Blockade. Now, it seems to me that at the time Blockade was made the majority of the people in this country were sympathetic to the Loyalists in Spain, so that the content, in my opinion, couldn't be considered propaganda at the time unless, of course, it suited their purpose at the .moment.
Mr. DOYLE. I think Mr. Ashe's active membership in the party was prior to yours by several years, wasn't it ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, it was.
Mr. DOYLE. And prior to the time you became, claimingly, an ex- pert; isn't that true
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. So-Mr. Ashe might well have had information that you never heard of?
Mr. TOWNSEND. This is possible. I don't recall that he brought it out in testimony.
Mr. DOYLE. No; but there is a difference of many years there be- tween your experience and his experience ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, of course.
Mr. DOYLE. Now, 1 am not intending to argue with you, but I am interested in again asking you why the Communist Party directive would dictate to you that you should get on the board of the Screen Writers' Guild if your membership in the Screen Writers' Guild as a member of the Communist Party, taking directives from the Communist Party, was not intended to influenceMr. TOWNSEND. Oh, I must say I didn't mean to imply that it wasn't. Certainly it was intended to influence.
Mr. DOYLE. I see. Influence what ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Influence the guild, how the guild was conducted; possibly to gain control of the guild would be the goal.
Mr. DOYE. Why would they want to gain control of the guild ? 1534  
Mr. 'Tlowxsi.:x. Because the guild is an important guild in the picture industry. If they gained control of one, they might have a better chance of gaining control of another, I would think.
Mr. DOYLE. The members of the guild were all screen writers? .Mr. TOWN.SEND. Yes.
Mr. DorVi. Assuming that all members of the board of directors in control of the Screen Writers' Guild were all Communists, at least in that indirect. manner there would be control-in that manner--of the screen writers?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Of the writer, himself, yes. They would still have no direct control over the content of film.
Mr. DOYLE. But they would have direct control over every member of the board of directors of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; that is true.
Mr. DOYLE. That goes to your thinking as well as your opinion, doesn't it ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated that in 1947 they destroyed entirely the Com- munist influence completely in the Screen Writers' Guild. was that destroyed ? How 
Mr. TOWNSEND. As I recall it, a group of the majority of the guild membership formed an organization which met often, campaigned, set up a slate of candidates to oppose the slate on which there may have been Communists. They electioneered, they campaigned. Their slate won in 1947 and, to my knowledge, there may have been one or two Communists on the board since then, not elected, but brought up by virtue of absence of elected members. There may have been no Communists on the board since then. 
Mr. DOYLE. What, in your judgment, is the motivating factor for men and women, men like yourself with intelligence and training, to unite with the Communist Party when you learn to know that you are instructed to follow the Soviet Communist line instead of continuing your allegiance to the Constitution of the United States? What is the motivating factor ? What makes you do it ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I found, in my case, I didn't know or realize that the party was following the Soviet line until I had been in it a while.
Mr. DOYLE. I know, but your printed constitution and bylaws as produced yesterday showed very clearly that there was no pledge of allegiance to the Constitution of the United States. Did you get a chance to read that ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. These were not generally distributed to the party membership at the time I went in.
Mr. DOYL. Do you know of any pledge or any commitment in any of the printed literature of the Communist Party of the United States which permits the Communist to uphold the Constitution of the United States ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That permits aMr. DOLE. That commits, that pledges the Communist to uphold the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I don't know of such.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you know where I might find one, if such exists I haven't been able to find one yet.
Mr. TOWNSEND. NO; I do not.  1535 
Mr. DoyrE. You, in your closing remark, which was very splendid, as all of it was, used this language, "We must do all we can to expose the enemy within our country." What can we do, in your judgment, to expose the enemy? When I say the enemy, Mr. Townsend, I am referring to people dedicated to subversive misconduct and to the subversion and the destruction of our American way of life under our constitutional form of government. I am not referring to people who might differ with you or me politically. They have a right to those thoughts, but I am referring in this question to people known to you by personal action and by mass action, determined to subvert, to overthrow, to overturn our Government, if necessary, to carry out the Soviet program. What shall we do to help expose that kind of people ? We can't ship them to Russia, all of them, although we ought to be able to get rid of them, shouldn't we, in some way?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, it seems to me this matter is more in the area of the committee than it is in my own. I think somehow the Communist Party should be made to show its face to the American people, which it hasn't done so far. How that can be accomplished, again, that I don't know. That is what you gentlemenMr. DOYLE. I think you realize, Mr. Townsend, from what you said, because you complimented this committee on what it tried to accomplish and what it is trying to accomplish-I think you realize-I hope you do-that this committee realizes that while our assignment, as I read yesterday, is to investigate in the United States subversive and un-American propaganda that is instigated from foreign coun- tries or within our own country, nevertheless we are diligently trying, consciously trying and endeavoring to do that difficult task within the framework of our Constitution, and I just wish to say this to you, that I hoped that your example in coming clean and cooperating to the maximum with us, even though it must be embarrassing and even though I know that it will eliminate you from some of your former contacts and friends, I want to compliment you on doing that and, as I say, I hope, as a member of this committee, as a citizen of the State of California that all present members or recent members of the Communist Party that place our country, the United States of America, ahead of Soviet Russia will come clean, also, and that is without any exceptions. I want to urge every person in California that is patriotic enough to acknowledge his American citizenship in preference to Soviet communism to come out clean and be man and woman enough to face up and be willing to lose some personal friendship (At this point Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room.)
Mr. TOWNSEND. I hope my testimony might help some of these people to do that.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I hope it does. I want to publicly urge any man or woman that has got the guts and the gumption to fight for the United States of American to come up and come clean and do it while this committee is here in Los Angeles. Thank you very much.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Thank you. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Townsend, I will join with the rest of the members of the committee in thanking you for your statement. You have added a great deal to the knowledge already possessed by the com- 1536  mittee. Did you find at any time during your membership in the Communist Party, that your career was in any way facilitated through any connections you had in the Communist Party in the studios ? MIr. TOWNSEND. No; I have no recollection at any time where I might have obtained a position, a job, a screen-writing job because I was a Communist. As a matter of fact, I would say the reverse might be true. During the past 3 years, since I have been out of the party, I have found difficulty obtaining employment in the film industry.
Mr. JACKSON. You have found difficulty ? -Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, I have.
Mr. JACKSON. Since you left the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. You experienced difficulty in finding employment?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That's right.
Mr. JACKSON. That was the import of my question. There have been charges that in some instances, at least, the Communists, through their interlocking connections and associations, were able to obtain or conversely deny employment to their favorites or their enemies.
Mr. TOWNSEND. This may be true. I am saying, in my own instance, I don't recall any example of that.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you say who your agent was ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. My agent is the William Morris Agency.
Mr. JACKSON. William Morris Agency ? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. You touched on the matter of the Duclos letter and. the abrupt about-face in party line that the letter caused at that time. Do you also have knowledge of the Albert Maltz articles?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you explain the nature of the Maltz affair very briefly?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well. as I recall it now, Mr. Maltz wrote an article which appeared in the New Masses, asking for more freedom for leftwing writers and speaking of art for art's sake, and also that the Communists-the left wing should not blacklist or denounce non-left-wing writers, people who had once been left wing and had left.
Mr. JACKSON. What reception was accorded that article upon its. appearance by the Communists and fellow travelers in the writing profession ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. The immediate reception locally was very good. Then the national party headquarters evidently felt that this was an error and a man, I believe, named Samuel Sillen was sent out here to correct this error, and it evidently was corrected because Mr. Maltz later wrote another article for the same magazine, the New Masses, recanting.
Mr. JACKSON. That was indicative, was it not, of the measure of independent thought permitted a member of the Communist Party ?'
Mr. TOWNSEND. I would say so; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you presently a member of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, I am.
Mr. JACKSON. What can you tell the committee of the existence of two factions known, respectively, as the all-guild committee and. the. progressive caucus within the Screen Writers' Guild ? ' INDUSTRY 1537 
Mr. TOWNSEND. These were the groups I had reference to in answer- ing one of Mr. Doyle's questions. The all-guild committee, I believe, was the organization formed in 1947 by the majority of the membership of the Screen Writers' Guild to defeat the other factions, the
Mr. JACKSON. Progressive caucus?
Mr. TOWNSEND. The progressive caucus, yes; and it succeeded, as I remember, entirely.
Mr. JACKSON. Was the progressive caucus within the Screen Writers' Guild an organization as such in that it had a chairman and officers of the caucus within the guild ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I'm sorry, I can't remember that, definitely. I know that it was composed not only of just Communists. There were others in it.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, without respect to the membership or nonmembership of those who were particularly active in the progressive caucus, who took the leading parts in the caucus, itself, within the guild ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Again, I am quite sure it was John Howard Lawson.
Mr. JACKSON. In your opinion and in light of your own experience out of your own observations, is it your feeling that the Communist Party should be outlawed as such ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Again, I think that is more in the area of the committee. I don't know, frankly; I don't know whether outlawing the party and sending it underground will only bring it up somewhere else in another form. As I said to Mr. Doyle, I think if there was a way to make the party show its face to the American people, this might be more effective. I don't know.
Mr. JACKSON. What proportion-out of your experience, again- what proportion of the party is above ground and what part is below ground at the present time ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I have no knowledge of that because I have had no contact along those lines.
Mr. JACKSON. As of the period during which you held membership in the Communist Party, what proportion of its activities were above ground and in no way secret ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, very little, I would think. I can't think ofMr. JACKSON. Very little above ground?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. I can't think of any activity, offhand. You mean in which the Communist called himself a Communist?
Mr. JACKSON. That's right.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I can't think of any such thing.
Mr. JACKSON. Isn't the distinguishing feature as between above ground and underground whether or not the activities are carried on in the open or are carried on in a cloak-and-dagger atmosphere of secrecy and conspiracy ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; I see what you mean.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you have any knowledge while you were a member of the various groups or cells to which you were attached of parallel work being done in the way of the transmittal of information through the underground, of espionage, of courier services, as distinguished from the cell organization ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. NO; I had no knowledge of that. 1538 INDUSTRY 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you feel that the average member of the Communist Party is permitted to have any knowledge of that phase of party activity?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I think not.
Mr. JACKSON. I believe you said you were financial director or agent of the branch to which you were assigned ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. For how long a period did you serve in that capacity ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I would guess about 6 months.
Mr. JACKSON. How many individuals were you responsible for in 'the matter of the collection of moneys?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Oh, probably 12. 
Mr. JACKSON. How often did you make your collections? 
Mr. TOWNSEND. Quarterly.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. of the JACKSON. Quarterly TOWNSEND. Quarterly. JACKSON. Would you care to give the committee an estimate amount of money that passed through your hands during the period of time you were financial director?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, I mentioned this morning in answer to one of Mr. Tavenner's questions that during the time I was financial di- rector most of the high-salaried screen writers at that time were not employed so that there was never very much money passed through my hands. I would say never more than $200 a quarter. It may be $250. It is roughly around that figure. 
Mr. JACKSON. How many of the men you have named as being Com- munists to your personal knowledge are still members in good standing and in regular attendance at the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Members of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. JACKSON. Members of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Well, I suppose all of them are. Any screen writer is a member of the Screen Writers' Guild unless he does not pay dues, unless for a certain period of time he has no screen credits, and I think then he becomes an associate member.
Mr. J.CKsON. Have you attended the meetings of the Screen Writers' Guild recently?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I am sure I must have, yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Were any of the individuals you have mentioned as being members of the Communist Party present at the last meeting you attended ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Again I can't be sure. I would imagine so. I don't remember what the date was of the last meeting I attended. I probably did not attend the last couple of meetings because I live quite a ways away from town and my wife was having a difficult time with childbirth. So for the last two meetings I think I didn't attend.
Mr. JACKSON. Again out of your personal experience and your knowledge of the situation here in Los Angeles, would you say what organization is today carrying the brunt of the burden so far as Communist and Communist-front activities are concerned?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I would say it is the Arts, Sciences, and Profes- sions Council.
Mr. JACKSON. Is that the Hollywood Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes. COMMUNiSM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1539 
Mr. JACKSON. Did you personally ever write or attempt to write into any script any material which had been dictated to you by the Communist Party?
Mr. TOWNSEND. No; I did not.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you have knowledge of any writer having done so?
Mr. TOWNSEND. No, sir; I haven't.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you. take any part in the so-called Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the nature of the work that you did for the mobilization?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I served on, I believe, a panel on pan-American affairs.
Mr. JACKSON. Was this work done at the request of the Government ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I believe so; yes. I think all the Screen Writers' Guild was involved.
Mr. JACKSON. But you did some work on behalf of the Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I served on the mobilization.
Mr. JACKSON. Was this during the time you were a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. TOWNSEND. If you can bring me up on the date. Was that in 1943? 'Mr. JACKSON. I believe it was 1943, or so I am advised by counsel.
Mr. TOWNSEND. In that case I was a member of the party at that time.
Mr. JACKSON. I believe you stated that out of the membership of the Screen Writers' Guild at the time the Communist. drive was at its peak there were approximately 50 members of the Screen Writers' Guild who were members of the Communist Party; is that correct?
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the total membership of the Screeln Writ- ers' Guild at that time ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I think at that time there were roughly between 900 and 1,000 members in the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. JACKSON. Again, Mr. Townsend, I will add my thanks to the other members of the committee. I think you have made a considerable contribution.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Townsend, in your testimony this morning you mentioned your activities in three fractions of mass organizations in which you raised money or to which you contributed money, I believe. was your testimony. I don't recall offhand the three mass organizations that you mentioned. Do you have any recollection'?
Mr. TOWNSEND. One was the Council of American-Soviet Friendship; one was the People's Educational Association, I believe was the title: and one was the Hollywood Independent Democratic Committee, which later, I believe, became the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council.
Mr. POTTER. Was a fraction in each one of the organizations men- tioned strong enough in order to control the mass organization?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I would say "Yes." I was not in a fraction of those organizations; I contributed to them. 815)5-51-pt. 4-9 1540  
Mr. POTTER. You contributed to them?
Mr. TOWNSEND Y.es. My opinion would be thatMr. POTTER. That they controlled the mass organization? lMr. ToIWXEND. My opinion would be "Yes."
Mr. PorrER. You mentioned in your direct testimony there were 50 members, or 50 Communists. in the Screen Writers' Guild. You failed to mention what the size of the Screen Writers' Guild was as a whole.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Mr. Jackson, I believe, just asked that question. I told him that the membership, I believed, at that time was between 900 and 1,000. 'Mr. POTTER. And that was the highest percentage of membership of the Communist Party in the guild ? Mir. TOWNSEN.D. To my knowledge; yes. I think that was the peak of Communist membership.
Mr. POTTER. It is interesting, Mr. Townsend, that the Communist Party members are today great advocates of peace, and I think that probably you were in the party during the Hitler-Stalin pact. 
Mr. TOWNSEND. No; I wasn't.
Mr. POTTER. Tlat was before your time in the party. At that time they were very much interested in peace; and then, with the attack upon Russia by Germany, overnight they became warmongers; they were for opening up the second front.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes, sir.
Mr. POTTER. At the conclusion and during the military alliance between the Soviet Union and the United States, during World War II, there was a great effort on the part of the Communist Party in the United States to aid in prosecuting the war effort, and because of that effort many people considered that their aims were much more to the aims of our own Government. But then, at the conclusion of World War II, what happened? The Soviet Union, the Communist Party members then received their instructions to put on the so-called peace drive and become very militant. So the clamor for peace today is a political expediency which the Communist Party is trying to impress the American people that they, and they alone, are interested in peace.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Sure.
Mr. POTTER. I dare say that every American citizen today would like peace, and there are many of us, and I would say the vast majority of the American people are just as opposed to fascism as they are to communism. And many of those people have contributed just as much to the defeat of fascism, and we are just as determined to defeat another form of dictatorship which is just as vicious, and that is of communism.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I think we could use right now a great rise of the anti-Fascist spirit we had a few years ago for this same fight.
Mr. POTTER. I am curious to know whether you are familiar with the publication entitled "The Communist Party, a Manual on Organization," which was written by J. Peters back in 1935. Now, in some Communist organizations this has served as more or less of a Bible for the Communist Party members. Are you familiar with that'?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I don't believe I have ever seen this document.
Mr. POTTER. I would like to read the role and aim of the Communist Party as enunciated in their own manual, and you will see if this ' INDUSTRY 1541 was the aim of the Communist Party when you were a member, and I quote now: 1 As. the leader and organizer of the proletariat, the Communist Party of the United States of America leads the working class in the fight for the revolutionary overthrow of capitalism, for the establishment of the dictatorship of the proletariat, for the establishment of a Socialist Soviet Republic in the United States, for the complete abolition of classes, for the establishment of socialism, the first stage of the classless Communist society. The aim of the Communist Party as enunciated here, would you say that was the aim as you experienced it in the Communist Party ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. No; this was not enunciated to me, nor most of the people who joined the party out here. We discovered this gradually later.
Mr. POTTrER. This was the hidden aim that didn't come out-Mr. TOWNSEND. I would say so; yes. When I went into the party I certainly didn't realize this.
Mr. POTTER. Did they ever mention to you your responsibility to defend the Soviet Union ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. I don't recall if that ever came up; no.
Mr. POTTER. Also in this same manual there is a note that Browder gave to 2,000 workers in New York, and this is a pledge which they took. In the pledge there is one sentence which I will read, and I quote: I pledge myself to rally the masses to defend the Soviet Union, the land of victorious socialism. It says nothing about defending the United States of America.
Mr. TOWNSEND. I don't hear that in there; no. You are not consciously leaving it out, I suppose ?
Mr. POTTER. NO. It is not in here. So I say I am wondering if, particularly during the period of the so-called wartime alliance between the Soviet Union and the United States, if many of the aims of the Communist Party, such as are basic party policy, weren't hidden from the average Communist member.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Yes; indeed they were. Certainly they were.
Mr. POTTER. It is also interesting to note that when you were discussing a while ago, I believe with Mr. Doyle, the so-called lack of freedom of discussion in the Communist Party, that here is a paragraph from this same manual on party discussion and freedom of criticism. Let me read you this paragraph, and I quote: We cannot imagine a discussion, for example, questioning the correctness of the leading role of the proletariat in the revolution, or the necessity for the proletarian dictatorship. We do not question the theory of the necessity for the forceful overthrow of capitalism. We do not question the correctness of the revolutionary theory of the class struggle laid down by Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin. We do not question the counterrevolutionary nature of Trotskyism. In other words, you can't question the teachings of Marx or Engels or Lenin or Stalin in your party circles ?
Mr. TOWNSEND. That's right. I would say that this leaves very little area for democratic discussion; wouldn't you?
Mr. POTTER. I would say it would.
Mr. Townsend, I have no further questions, but I would like to compliment you on your presentation here today, and I am most 1 See appendix. printed in a separate volume for complete text of this document. 1542  pleased that your studio has seen fit to aid you in your future career, and 1 hope that your career will be long and successful.
Mr. TOWNSEND. Thank you, sir. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. WOOD. It has been said that to make a mistake and t.o make an effort to rectify it requires the highest degree of moral courage. I am inclined to subscribe to that doctrine. I don't think any loyal American citizen can gainsay the fact that today communism, as it is seen in those countries that are practicing it today, is a deadly menace. The American Government and way of life that we people in America 'have known, we have but to realize that we are today engaged in a deadly struggle with that ideology. It has already taken the lives of approximately 90,000 of the flower of American manhood. Daily your boys and mine are being subjected to the loss of their lives and limbs and the shedding of their blood for the sole and exclusive purpose of seeking to halt the inroads and aggression of this powerful influence that is abroad in this land of ours. A person that has set his first steps on the pathway that leads in the wrong direction and finds he has made a mistake and turns back and rectifies it has all that honesty can do to make amends; I feel that he is entitled to commendation of all liberty-loving American people. I commend you for your stand in coming before this committee and giving us the benefit of your experience and your knowledge concerning this. Are there any further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Is there any reason why the witness should not be excused ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. WOOD. It is so ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Leo Bigelman.
Mr. WooD. Doctor, would you hold up your right hand and be sworn? Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you are about to give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ? Dr. BIGELMAN. I do.
Mr. WOOD. I am going to ask the photographers to refrain from taking pictures during the time the oath is being administered. TESTIMONY OF DR. LEO BIGELMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT W. KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS 