Mr. WooD. Dr. Bigelman, are you represented by counsel? Dr. BIGELMAN. I am.
Mr. WOOD. Will counsel please identify themselves for the record?
Mr. KENNY. Robert Kenny and Ben Margolis.
Mr. WOOD. Of the Los Angeles bar ?
Mr. KENNY. Correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Bigelman, when and where were you born ? Dr. BIGELMAN. I was born in Poland, 1896, came to this country in 1904 and have derivative citizenship and am an enlisted veteran of the First World War.  1543 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you come to this country ? Dr. BIGELMAN. About 1904, as I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee, please, in a general way, what your educational training has been ? Dr. BIGELMAN. I shall be very glad to do that. But since I have it in my mind at the moment I would like to either introduce or read a statement which I have prepared for this committee.
Mr. WOOD. Very well, Doctor, just hand it to me and I will submit it for the record.
Mr. BIGELMAN. I was graduated in the elementary and high schools of the city of Detroit, Mich., had my premedical training there, got my medical degree at what is now the Wayne University in the same city, which at that time was the Detroit College of Medicine and Surgery, and that was followed by the various hospitals and postgraduate work.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where have you engaged in the practice of your profession ?
Mr. BIGELMAN. Well, I originally was a resident physician in the city of Detroit, until the end of 1921. Since 1921, in California.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where in California Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, I am going to answer these questions, of course, but I wonder what the practice of medicine has to do with the investigation of so-called subversive activities in Hollywood. I mean, this seems to imply that a patient and a doctor's politics are involved here, or are they ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I assure you it is not because of your being a doctor that has occasioned your being called before this committee, but the committee is anxious to know what your background is. Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, I practiced medicine in Los Angeles most of the time but I was in San Francisco for some 3 or 4 years in the early twenties, have been in Los Angeles, I think, continuously from 1928 or 1929. (Representative Francis E. Walter returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. What phase of the practice of medicine are you engaged in? Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, mostly general practice, except that I have qualified in what is called internal medicine, as I handle diagnostic problems. But I might say that if you want to ask me about any phase of medicine which I have really specialized in, I think that I have specialized in rather the relationship of medicine to living. I have been interested in people getting the broadest and best medical care. I have been particularly interested in medicine for the poorer section of our population. I have been especially interested in seeing that people of 'racial minorities and especially Negro people were not discriminated against and consequently my practice has been directed toward the social as well as the physical ability of my patients. (Representative Charles E. Potter left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell your full name, sir, please ? Dr. BIGELMAN. Yes, certainly. B-i-g-e-1-m-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your first name? Dr. BIGELMAN. Leo.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your business address? Dr. BIGELMAN. 5503 South Broadway. Does that mean that patients are instructed to come or not come to me at that address ? 1544 
Mr. TAVENNFJR. There is another Dr. Bigelman in the city, is there not ? Dr. BIGELMAN. I see. 
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that right? Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, I am sure that there is another one. spells his name differently. He 
Mr. TAVENNER. Iow does he spell his name? Dr. BIGELMAN. If I am not mistaken, he spells it B-e-i-g-e-l-m-a-n.
Mr. TA VENNER. What is his first name ? Dr. BIGELMAN. That I don't know. His initial is M.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, there is a question, don't you see, of identiT fication. Dr. BIGELMAN. In justice to him and in justice to myself, too, I would say that clear identification would be desirable.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Bigelman, a schedule of the classes for the winter of 1950 term of the California Labor School reflects the name of a Dr. Leo Bigelman as an instructor. Are you the Dr. Bigelman referred to as an instructor in that school ? Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, you are raising my name in connection with an organization which I have heard or believe has been labeled either by this or other committees as on the subversive list. I therefore must, in duty, decline on the grounds it might possibly tend to incriminate me and, therefore, invoke the privilege of the fifth amendment and do decline to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been president of the board of trustees of the People's Educational Center? Dr. BIGELMAN. The contextMr. TAVENER. In Los Angeles. Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, the context of that question is the same as the previous one. I really feel very sincerely and very strongly that education of any type is a prerogative of our people but, inasmuch as certain types of education, apparently, does not meet with the approval of this and other committees and is proscribed, I again must and do decline to answer this question on the grounds of the fifth amendment. I would like to say that in taking the ground of the fifth amendment, I would very much appreciate introducing the position of Justice Black-Supreme Court Justice Black, on the fifth amendment so that my position may be clear. That is, that it is neither an admission of guilt nor, for that matter, do I understand, is an implication of innocence. Furthermore, that I am in no fear of conviction of anything, but there is possible fear or jeopardy of prosecution. Is that correct? I wanted that clearly understood when I claimed the privilege of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, will you tell the committee, if you state that there is no question of guilt involved in your answers, how you became a member-how you became interested in these various organizations which I have mentioned? Let us take, first, the California Labor School. Will you tell the committee, please, the circumstances under which you became connected with that institution. Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, Mr. Tavenner, as long as you mention the organization or organizations which I have already declined to answer, I shall continue to decline to answer on the same grounds. It is my understanding of the fifth amendment that any attempt to ' INDUSTRY 1545 inquire as to the reasons for claiming it are not permissible and that no inference can be drawn from claiming it. Further, that a ques- tion inquiring as to the reasons for claiming it-Mr. Dr.
Mr. There WooD. Just a moment. BIGELMAN. Are not pertinent. WooD. On that score, I would like to disabuse your mind. isn't any such law as that in the amendment. To .say that to answer a question would.tend to incriminate him and then in the next breath to say that by saying that he doesn't leave any inference that he is guilty, that to answer the question would incriminate him is double talk; just plain double talk. Dr. BIGELMAN. That is exactly why I wanted Justice Black's opinion in the record.
Mr. WOOD. It doesn't. The answer would incriminate you truthfully or it wouldn't. You can't blow hot and cold about it. Dr. BIGELMAN. Mr. Wood, that is why I wanted to read from Su- preme Court Justice Black's opinion.
Mr. WOOD. The committee is perfectly familiar with the minority opinion of Justice Black. You don't need to advise this committee about it. Dr. BIGELMAN. I am not trying to advise this committee. I am merely trying to establish my own understanding of that section.
Mr. WooD. The answer to these questions would incriminate you or they wouldn't. If you say they wouldDr. BIGELMAN. Well, I-Mr. WOOD. Please spare us from the unduly inconsistent statement that they wouldn't. Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, sir-Mr. WOOD. And then say they would. So let's just confine our answers one way or the other without arguing the question, will you ? Proceed, counsel. Dr. BIGELMAN. I think inferences may be personal but cannot be official. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you questions relating to various other organizations which the staff of the committee understands that you were connected with from time to time. Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, would you please name them specifically. I will give no general answers.
Mr. TAVENNER. I propose to. Were you a member of the executive board of the American League Against War and Fascism? Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, I presume, Mr. Counsel, you are aware of the fact by now that I must and do decline to answer that question on previously stated grounds.
Mr. WOOD. Do you? Dr. BIGELMAN. I said I must and I do.
Mr. WooD. All right. Dr. BIGELMAN. You also know, of course, that the organization referred to at the time it existed was considered one of the most patriotic organizations in the country.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, were you connected with it during that period of time? Dr. BIGELMAN. I think it is the same question, and I decline to answer. 1546 COM.MV1NISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. r.\\ENNER. Well, you are attempting to explain it. I want to give you the opportunity to explain it fully. Ir. lIElMt.N. Thank you.
Mr. TA.\\ve ER. Have you anything else you desire to say about your affiliation with that organization ? Dr. BmIi.\xA. At the l(moment, that is all the opinion I wish to state.
Mr. T.\\fxxEI. Well, if it is a patriotic.organization and was at the time you may have been a member of it, what. is your reason for refusing to so state ? SDr. BI:EI~mI.\. Well, sir, lnder other conditions than in this hearing room I probably would have no hesitation in so stating, but when an organization which did patriotic service is labeled subversive and is on the list of the subversive activities committee or the House UnAmerican Activities Committee, then I am convinced in my own opinion that an answer to that question might tend to incriminate me. and. therefore. I invoke the privilege of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that you in the past have engaged in some political activities connected with the (Conunist Party. I am referring particularly to your alleged support in 19:6 of Emil Freed as candidate of the Communist Party in an election in the fifty-seventh assembly district. Were you connected in any way with the campaign or the support of Emil Freed on that occasion? Dr. BIGELMAN. Mr. Tavenner, I have been in this committee room since yesterday morning. I have been ashamed to be here during part of the time in hearing the vindictive hysteria that was being whipped up about this party. It has been labeled all sorts of things. Therefore. it is rather obviousMr. TAVENNER. You are referring to the Communist Party? Dr. BIGELMAN. Well. that is what you said. It has been labeled various things. I.therefore, of course, must and do decline to answer that question on the basis of the fifth amendment, and I must at this point also say that because of that any questions relating to the Communist Party or in which that term isused will undoubtedly, in my opinion, call for a declination to answer.
Mr. WOOD. You can saveDr. BIGELMAN. I have been sitting in this room, and I got the feeling that ifanyone, whether he was or was not or by any implication was associated with it would tomorrow be taken out and lynched or something. I don't know. I think this is considerable jeopardy. I decline to answer on the grounds I have stated.
Mr.WooD. Doctor, it will save a lot of time, of which you may not have too much to spare-certainly we haven't-if, without a lecture in this room, you would simply answer the questions. We would appreciate that also because the committee isn't concerned about your opinion of the committee or its work. Dr. BIGELMAN. Well. sir, it has been my opinion. If it weren't for my opinions I wouldn't be here, and when I thinkMr. WooD. I am talking about your opinion of this committee or its work. Dr. BIGELMAN. I have not stated any opinion of this committee yet, unless the committee wishes me to state my opinion of it. ' INDUSTRY 1547 
Mr. WooD. That is all you have been doing for the past 5 minutes.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have commented on the statements nalde by various persons in this hearing room condemning the ComInllnist Party. Do you disagree with the words of criticism that you have in your mind? Dr. BIGELIMN. Mr. Tavenner, I said that I have been in this room and have heard various things and felt a certain atmosphere. I decline to answer the question, the previous question, because of the possible tendency of self-incrimination. Now, this question, in my opinion is a very similar question or perhaps even the same question. Therefore, I again decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is informed, Doctor, that you were transferred from the medical branch of the professional section of the Los Angeles County Communist Party to the North Hollywood Club of the Los Angeles County Communist Party in 1943. Were you ever a member of either of those clubs or sections of the Communist Party ? Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, Mr. Tavenner, Mr. Wood a few moments ago admonished me to save time by not stating my opinions. I think that is repetition of questions on that basis on which I am going to decline and do decline to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment is really a waste of time. I have stated that any questions with respect to the Communist Party, because of the possibility that it might incriminate me, I will invoke the privilege of the fifth amendment and decline to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend, in the summer of 1945. a California state convention of the Communist Political Association . Dr. BIGELMAN. In my opinion, it is the same question. The same declination to answer on the same ground.
Mr. TAVATNER. The committee is in possession of information thac there was in existence what was known as a community club. a subsection of the Hollywood section of the Los Angeles County Communist Party, and that this community club met on one occasion at the home of Dorothy Forrest on April 26,,194(6, and that you were in attendance at that committee and suggested how that section of the council should be organized. Were you a member of that club, and did you attend that meeting? Dr. BIGELMAN. Mr. Tavenner, isn't it obvious that this is another form of the same question or a related question? I therefore refuse to answer this on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the American-Russian Insti- tute of Southern California ? Dr. BIGELMAN. It is a peculiar question. American-Russian Institute, of course, implies something that might have to do with improving relations between the two countries
Mr. WooD. Irrespective of what it imports, the question is, Are you a member of it ? Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, I am trying to formulate my answer, Mr. Wood, and I have to do a little thinking before. In the practice of medicine one thinks or the patient doesn't survive, and I would like to apply the same principle here.
Mr. WooD. If you want time to concentrate, we would be glad to give you the time to do it, but do it privately. Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, I am concentrating out loud for the benefit of the committee; that way I think they will understand my answers 1548 better; and I have heard testimony here to the effect that people are not allowed to think elsewhere. I would hate to think that it were true in this room. I want to think here, and if I want to think out loud I should be permitted to think out loud. I have a recollectionI could easily check, of course, or you could check for me-that this organization is listedMr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt you a moment. I believe I have put my question in the present tense, and it should be in the past tense, of course. That is, whether or not you were at any time a member of that organization. Dr. BIGELMAN. I am inclined to think it is listed in your list of subversive organizations, so labeled by this committee. I therefore refuse to answer this question onthe previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you, on July 7, 1945, go to the home of Albert Maltz called Dr. stated and there attend a meeting of the Communist Party which was for the purpose of discussing the Duclos letter? BIGELMAN. I refuse to answer this question on the previously grounds, although I would like to say at this time that I have read much of Mr. Maltz' works. I think he is one of the great Ameri- can novelists today and that some day our country is going to appreciate him as, perhaps, it will appreciate very few men in our time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yere you at any time chairman of the disciplinary committee of the Los Angeles County Communist Party? Dr. BIGELMAN. Now. Mr. Tavenner, after all the other questions, is this one you think I am not going to refuse to answer? I refuse to answer this question on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate me. on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee would like to know from you whether you have been associated in any particular work in the Communist Party with any of the following-named persons: John Howe; Ethel Holmstock; Dr. Samuel Marcus; Joseph Aidlin, A-i-d-l-i-n; Mary Aidlin; Donald Murray; Norman Byrne, B-y-r-n-e. Dr. BIGELMAN. You know, defending one's rights in the Constitution becomes a repetitious thing, and I am afraid I am going to be repetitious. I refuse to answer this question on the grounds previ- ously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Is it true that you, along with those persons, com- prised the membership commission of the Communist Party in Los Angeles at one time ? (At this time Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the room.) Dr. BIGELMAN. This, in my opinion, is another version of the same question. I therefore again refuse to answer this question on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee, Dr. Bigelman, is in possession of information that in 1944 you were assigned a Communist Political Association card No. 46157 and that in 1945, card No. 47411Dr. BIGELMAN. Well, if the committee is in possession of such in- formation, an answer from me is superfluous. I refuse to answer this question on the grounds that it is asking me to testify against myself, and on the grounds of the fifth amendment I need not incriminate myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party Dr. BIGELMAN. I refuse to answer the question on the same grounds. MOTION-PICTURE COMMUNISM IN 1549 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Wood.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Just one moment. The previous witness, Mr. Leo Townsend. in the course of his testimony referred to you as having taught a class in Marxism at which he and other members of the Communist Party attended. Is that a truthful statement? Dr. BIGELMAN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment, although I think that within the construction of the Constitution that teaching anything probably is perfectly all right. I presume it is a question of what version of what is taught. I do refuse to answer the question, however, on the ground of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter?
Mr. WALTER. No questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions. 
Mr. WooD. Any reason why the witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. So ordered. Dr. BIGELMAN. May I ask a question before I may be excused ? 
Mr. WOOD. Witness is excused. Dr. BIGELMAN. Thank you.
Mr. WooD. At this point we will take a recess. The committee will stand in recess 20 minutes. (A short recess was taken.)
Mr. WOOD. Who do you have, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Helen Slote Levitt.
Mr. WOOD. Would you raise your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear the evidence you give this subcommittee to be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?
Mrs. LEvrrr. I do.
Mr. WOOD. Are you represented by counsel here ?
Mrs. LEVrrT. Yes; I am.
Mr. WooD. Will counsel please identify themselves for the record.
Mr. KENNY. Robert Kenny and Ben Margolis, of Los Angeles. TESTIMONY OF HELEN SLOTE LEVITT, ACCOMPANIED BY HER COUNSEL, ROBERT KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS 