Mr. H.RNOON. LeRoy 
Mr. TAvENNER. Will you spell your last name? 'Mr; HERNDON. H-e-r-n-d-o-n.
Mr. TAvNNER. When and where were you born f
Mr. HERNDON. In Gonzales, Calif. September 1, 1906.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your proesionI
Mr. HERNDON. I am a teacher.
Mr. TAvxNxER. Will you tell the committee briefly what your Aormal educational training has been ? " I
Mr. HERNDoN. I graduated from Stanford University, January of 1027. I did my graduate work' there that same year, finished my graduate work there. I went to the 1928 summer session at StanfordL :.o. " i '"- .499 ,. 500) ('O1MWIN1WT A('IVI'TtMA IN 'tTIM IfA AN(]VMi'h A11tIA Ne 111 119116 1 flttA'iit1tl file Ifillvor'it y (ift~h~ ull illt I 11)o 11111iid $tilflt) 141), Wh), ( 11161411111 thl 'N~li tI,fle 1111lvewltly (it4uItieru hilt, TIAVtIN N1,3t. W114%III' iIIIII 110110"'tiIdt' In11111, lilillier sossiin Ilt. h 1, AVV1N NNII. W1ill Vol 1i14 dAltauit.it 4\1111 1 av III liIl 1ad i john0 toiiiltti'uio tell the41111111e N-111 1 liui',i r ,lwu, titur 11ohI lwI', 1114%1 lln I ghil4'lutI 1-4161*1111111 ~ill ol 1ot-t(', In Io ok dor dH1141ie 1111111 I w ,ietliiu I I caught, I \\,,it siiii rooht.i 111141 Inhi W 1009 plantv ta IIlitu S114. 1iimietilf 4 0iiiiaWik (t Oi the)iled 81tatex 1141gli Jluniilolote tioxear. of 11191) 111d41 11-0. 8111o' 11101ihav' Wleua leit eiloi' (College, eXei'pt fill, At3elli'll Whi', I was 111VAN11t (II 1111111111v leave. MI' 'I'AVE~WN ISIV.W11 Jlll Woriilt Ivoll 'ii ii11441'it oil 1111111111Y leauvol
Mr. 'IX.Itmwt. Arei PO Mir. IIYl Nitlit, Not, sir'. ieitilR0I)II" lVyColille I &it. T-NISVt Y011i rM AWATN (fit'14 e10,Ilre youl net, 11111. youl Aro olltithl ft Volmsel at, ally tiit dur11Ing flit '411itrme f yourI Ii11411,11 Pattoil # totit-Il lilts 4,411e to ii)atIl
Mr. T1AVWW~N cIt. 1brIMtiOV 11110111(d01, It, tli (41111111ittce. through several Rliits, that youl were at. oneo 01114 a Ileulniter of the ('oninunilist Par'ty. Isthat eorrect.? r.IliNON That Ill. I wall. ',\r. ' AVVNNIti. Over how loug it perioil of ftme wer you it inttif Iter of t le ('ownunist Part v? If~'lfit n Il~t~N thought %itwasi 2 ,VIMi, ht.t I jtuist. tliI mri W. INo"lol.'k fintilly realivod It watt frM fIto fall of t9117 until t10411il of I1,t1 so that niaket-i 3vearsm Air. T~vN\.Nru. Hne140 have, TOII beuII (ISHWilitetl III Ry waVy withi the (kamimtst Partv or fihe aet ivitieos of the ('onitniit; Party I
Mr. liuNoNot ottI~ally, not socially, not InI Interest, not In S)' Wky, VIr. VELrn*. Air. Cotunel, I Interrupt att tIW liolirt. It Ill app~arent that tho w1itnet;* is going to give certait, Inforuiation. meh committees has nml' to go into eeutive session to determine tile future COtliul't ,,-f the committees hearings, and in view of the large number of witrd-w that we have subpoenaed, I now will appoint Mr. Clardy of Michigan as chairman of the suiteonittee consisting of himself and
Mr. 8'herer of Ohio to continue with this hearing, and the reminder of the committee will go into executive session.
Mr. T.AV -nxvm. Mr. Herndon, let's start your testimony with the very inception of your Communist Party membership.
Mr. Uu-xuo. Do you want tue to tell you why I joinedI
Mr. TAvtvxln. Yit; including all the circumstances under which you bec-ame a member and any facts that you have in mind leading up to your membership in the party, because before your testimony is pk-tped I think the committee would like to know all their circum. vtances under which you became a member and all the circumstances under which you left the party. UUMt twr A(MV1ei',e114 IN 11141 A9')lAN0111It.KN ARIOA 601 
Mr. lINer4H"r 1111611.0 1 aellowi'lllet111 i~trtt111ll uititwlleldily "ilgl Ill iximtty, woidlitI lmotorisll#i fur tim lip woe if, rut, itir Ulitisridlylt Mgll TIAVO4N Ni1, itsu, Mit. I IKIINININ. I 1,lilt1k I leatvi l111u1,1141 it ifiII Ielt , i i rsofles'4r Iitv~y 11141-4 fros Illy lihoo(uslI#f3ol wit'I IIlee (J111 uisiii011nf Poorly, Mostley 114141111" 1u14110141 1111i1k I-riot, 11111 CogIea1e1etelnie e'sieel 11411411 vitie'e-1willu flee (jIDv#etUI tlnIy feirel ee111(l VII'lln t stIllil I Ali l I't 1, ilii11%I9$ 111e I,iglly 1111ilUo rsolileh i IeP~ift lift. 111-41f' eh Iil l 1-10ieliiei le11111 fry f tig rst ill It~e litI eeaeein I'etefy weres to eejeiily jeroels Notatiterf. tot tistelit 1111 id -fl 1111 0141 014111hilr l e,14411 wvil 1,1111111f 'ie, fleeiy wili Id u11lse vi (-1it I11111 luetee.te sseeei~ttglekt p ovory powtldlfts kinod lot Omeit- worlley 1wee11f oli eca it loll.,11 1lly m aenhe1irpily fleciirif' t lY olle off 11 1it4A11111l $111 -ieoil etwaeel,Y viahefe tvlell ,fle ( 1111111isegere' infe ue 114111101 l l oll"hm iiiiettu isIiiesel, it fl 111 I4VIrrnI i rel 11 I'Iiivoil Vtcelif-i4i Isii hgecieha, 11141iihl ese'lieflee I-e11 hok f. ecu. eeueoplit list%wien tfsioo 81piip.h WiVas what.?l
Mr., I IWINiION, WIMe I list Mgeee ii~t lae t;ueelul I. 111tieit uil e ti-l 111Mj ie':r. I Iftitil 111 h11e111 10etw1w ii11eec o, IIIe'Iexi' itfle ut of f,1Hlee Spa ii aeWorldoiie Ile illeeei-u I 11 I, 1111 sll lwlel se'ej i bee ll Me'ieu diesi rig ft 1411,114 Ia W all fri flfe Itf ill If if. W411141 Mue~t, 111111 1.0lri.t tltwmie 61,i s I* furg Isert., 'I'/nrriuerel~elI loft hjSiileil ll. is"moueie. wflleI. fhsiegeiu.e to OwheesIfty o Itw l rd fil- 1.011-1,1 b4 11ia0I 1 111es. III iieiiuy ceesesi I Ilrhlo t.Mist i , #film(. (if OweArniricer, few-misters W01141l hale leir-1die Vi i it, foidt leet onlly people flint. 'w#reriiklseo it knro'wn 1114',44 wv'''fa Ii oftMeeele4 11111Om siii I wVise neing tit. flosit. flitit . oIsrtisA 111l)11i-14, I01.4-111-1, S4j11111 iaile, %lexiivu, c, 0(' 1111ea 11,loi li ag I crutilsi lay fy 1110 efll, 14111fiieeu Ily, 1111 toil eeieretw'l1y, I gilt, Illy flseuds fil P1filt COmrrtuer 1 1 pt11ifldtietNc, cuedl tI(! W41,y weriOrkiig for thIn' animh Itejoliliel. I thIelglit. I le ieifft t f I ite~4 nuelinh IN,' )lJIlie, which Wrm5 hfIing a.tacked by thees Iaceu 4 Hf~, Wa11 Vital Ih01 fleef ee 4uuSWP Ityleig.ht 111 Jolle wean at %litiiit ire r'rne to, sian' dolilig 1o14jeeauicd tetpiliie. I wiles illeresete'll rep fpei d Jf(phe who I thought woro clearly prenetire wAt clm. it fbintrehappy eCoiimw qaiiet-m' of ethim ii ag f lie Spittil RIepelie. So, tilforturilf4'Jtey, I blK(Iiree tririre andes mrie inftere.tAe in the (.oin. ineliists who I t leoegh. were doing gii work. It wasn't witil long after I left. Owei parts, ftat I maw51W th o0k in it, that tiler Corrrmunt..q Were ilfi'e'ssed if) ft Spaenisli Republic, I believe now, not for thet preservation of tin' Spanish, hbit so that the enold take it over as a Coueeimiist comitry after fle wreckage of I.- civil war. I thought thateywere 1nfer'f-seu inl defeating the enernes of the Spanish Reepteblic-, but I lieliev( flow flatt tiey were interested in it so that they cuecild teelce over flhe efollitry as a Comiinist. country after the. wreckage of it by the civil war*.
Mr. CLARDY. InI other words, there was a hook even in that.
Mr. HFRNDoN. I believe so. Bit it wasn't until after I left the party that I was able to figure that out by continuously reading all I could lay iny hands on as to what had happened. CiO, TIAVIINNV.i. d)I "M~tttl1 11 1101 M$2 WOMt' A N'~MA~t htIt T1AVIRRMP~t.1 IV e, ilt 01 teI (ll ft) ('41111t111141 p1i"i Ilw our 111t0h*4t$ h Ihl 01104110,41 1oliutiut lly 1i It'd Yolu Into110Cl11110f Atis. 111mmtc ttliigihIt tho (ollitiist o At, the t lno mI't'I dItltig it tretf dt'al 11,~ Nviy of I t'upiigiuuutil itu ici~ittO II1fif Itilu toud t'eflly Mt tigul. 11ll%%1 IVxpo1Tfi it) givo th101111e 1tt1piltt 111wh IpplilIig ilt Il ile 8 patuiA Helput ilk. IFthilnk flty 0shitt (toe ttl, tiw it littfl hit, 11ut. fth~ NVOr 1u ving Itg'vnt dtiil niorp of witit pist iltilnd olit I oihit t lie tt'u liu he11 h111111 1ht' ts uuu1111it Iuti4 of fb li 11." I ttutnidut If theyv Wvuti t oll 11l11t 1111d r'ight ont silyiug flint I1111It lovw-ot ltilr~mt% lt (1tha 11t,11110 tu 1i%0 tity ople tholight, 14le'wa 111 4 filtuity 111111 withita uuiiu0tuehe, 11io Air. ( 4i111141tu, 11114 I boalgh lil ha'11 wit grilvo dnilgor aund the (' uunuuuumito hild be10ientroetuttdg filt fot' Polito 111110 TI'iie 111.o tholght, (lOt it %WutAextrteiuiely thtttlgetottH11 li11t tho 6111upiuuueae Wll I't'q'liihg P1111111. Theylo wero 111ot'e ol lit4 right, "Inflint. 'lo vo'oitiul(A it tuinut hI hot h of fhoi 1 Calitel, 111841 I wondelred If they welle right In ithosp eates, 1111d tho1ght lint 0,It thev Were, right tit f1 181 (si'uue-A flty m11if he O'ijdu Ill 00the. tihuigs. 1 Wnit ui'ee to timid1 oat at fliiy atf S hto t'fo.Tl1a11 ito go 11181d"I tho juuritv to) t1t114 owtu NN-hi they (fidl 141111d fox'. I Iiik I enumid tui.eo sd out antd peu't-iups Intku it little longer andi-4411 411nedahsi~olied withlolt binfg to taem theo Milli) of jolin thfiuuul pry, hut1 1(lidt tuduuo th111t stu'Pi Mu.% N ts, JViE ttWitit. step?%(lidt youl tniCO in geftting into the iiaxty f MuO. ITlu imNn-v. I wiuts illim rau t'tuivi8('o Tlite wns atgirl I knewv I4guty ItsuIdced hier if she( Ittiew 11iN. way t Could uuaku1 tom n~ifet with 010, (hunumnmu11.0t, Party. I didn't thinkI of goitug to thoe lienIquiuteu'Ar for solilli xeilsot or Otket'. Site sAid .4h1 mi11ht ku C11 ol sotuu'I1 Ill suti Franoiwo who might knuow someone in tA).AItugeles who iuight. got In toui1 With 1i10, I i'eturtiei to LOSq Atigeltis. $otoine Ii'lae, I eeived q teletphlone call to coue to it eotan ttithim resi Los Au miles ait it et'taimx titun, I wethr.I met. it ian Who itdue unifto ne tin Sidney Freeman. I amn not, quite sure of thint. ime. I don't know If It is at meat iai or Anm altas. lIe aske mne wh~y I Wanted to get into the Commnunnist Party. I told hini onl account. of Spitin) and Ih lided uno it membership card and IAe it.
Mr. T1'Av' Namm. Were you assigned to any particular group of the ('tmmuntist Party after bevoning at nienbAr MSr. Hmrwinoz;. 'Y.%sir. I was himediately assigned to the teachers' uit of the HollywoodO Profesional Section.
Mr. T~wr.Nx1rR. To the teachers' unit, of the Hollywood Profe."ional Section of the Comunninist. PakrtyI
Mr. H amxeo-.. Yes
Mr. T.Avr.N Now when you were given that assignment were -youat the Comnmunist arty headquarters in Los AngelesI 
Mr. HumRNo-x. No. 
Mr. TAvExhNm Where were youth
Mr. HvmmoiN. A prson who was a member of the unit called me and told me where Ch next meeting would be, and I was to appear at the next meeting of the unit. (i.OMMEJNIWtI-AUTIVIT'Pik I IN""IC J) AN(IA8, AM4II'A Alt', 'I'A1'NNHH, Who (111110d HIton yOU 1111d gave yOU tli1t 503 1for4, M, P.rt.i N,, llt rd Byrd tAiwI, MI'. TAVANNY.t. Do you ktow what Mr,JASWil' ocmtpiion was At I lnt+f tna? Nil'. HERNDON. ile ait itIt '15t'.
Mr. 'l'Av'1NN.I(. Where, tit, wit intlittion I N,. ]ihlNiuxt. In Glendalo Collego. At'. '1',%iKNN~i. Whiat college? AlI', IItNtiN, in (1leud114111 (l hil ,gO. Nit'. lAvrNNco. Now, whmn wos it, as triarly n" yot can recallV All'. Ill-t(NN. "l WIMH SOMi('I1' illn0i4 fall of 16317. ir. 'i ,1. IVt:N I, ig U iI'14tll of tl LII Ui frtiit loil, did yol att end a Inert lIn1of t hl 11a'iit re141' tllit? AirIl ]:11MIu N, I dI. Al, 'l'.,vl ,tI.,.lf Wher' was the meeting held f i'. [imP1iNIN, I ('111111of now ri,iinill', l hnvA tri('d Clne find I know the Fivetion of the (,ity, but I can't filnd the streft0 I have [ll h hy there tying to 11n1d the lace. " Nil'. 'l',TV:NNRI., llow log did yolt remain a member of that par. titlltr 110nit, tlie teaiers' uit, of th1prof(sionral gtr-op of the (,omtunist Party?+ ,' uigain. Mi '. I IliNflN. I dont know, ifilI I litvo tried to remTember that. I SIIft, isive left 1mtlne'tio Il 1940, in tile wintet tor sprifig of 1140. Air. '1'AvINNES. 'I1'st' during that per'ioud of tinue YoU tbecamn very fimilior with the activitim of that group? 
Mr.IlEINI)ON. Yel, 
Mr. TAV1rNN1. How many person composed the group? Al '. IIMItNtON. I could ren;',tnbr 12 n(,s a1nMid I th ink that, is about it lint Hlt o people left and other people came in later, perhaps 8 or 10 at the line tit the most.
Mr. TAVI.INNEII. Were those per.sonH reprres'ntatives+froin different elt Ion:hml i itituions or where they all from one eduteationAl instif, utiolt 
Mr. lRNt)DON. 'Ihey were individuals from varionu educational inlsflittiolns.
Mr,'I'AV1NNKI. Well, let uiS try to get. clear at this point, just what the O'on.. larly organization) was within the teaching profes. sion. (.,in vol give'tue information as to other Counmnuist. Party groulps within the teaching profession in addition to the one that you were,ifI 
Mr. llhNIMN. I know of no other teachers' unit, not, directly or by hIearmty, in Los Angeles. At that time the various professions were not-or itt tit litme te professional lpeople in the Communist Party were organized I)y professions so that there would be a teachers' unit and pel'h aJ)s sonae other units. There were motion picture units. Air. TAV:NNER. Wel, this particular' Unit of the (;ommunist Party within tie teaching profession covered what general territory or areaI 
Mr. IliINJiN. Los Angeles and its surroundings. I think Lewis and I were the only people who were not in the Ios Angeles public schools, the only two.
Mr. 'IAvi'EN NEj-q. Well, were the rest of thle members from any par. tietihur public' school or from the public schools generally? 504 COMMUNIST AUTIVITIKS IN TtIK LOS A(IGL1KM AIU10A 
Mr. lliwt4rN, I blteve thoy wore lmotly i(3tte.real My recollo. Moll Isn't pl6in, but 1 do11't billve tJuit there, wit moro tlin oto por school.
Mr. TAvUNmN . Was thlt group titrulvy orgativA l whei you joilod ItI
Mr. i I4X)ON. Y00, Hi,
Mr,e1AvENNtUa. Now,.did you lrllin the ,olulr of your exlprionio ill thatt group) loij it hadu boti1 orgttd4ed V
Mr,l1ximl. Ne1 fdid not. It Idid, I halvo forgottell
Mr. 'T'AUvNNIU. Will you tell the 101u1u0it4e, plee, what tillai Interest was of that groui of the (otiitunist. P ,arty whieh wits 4,111tte4 within the teah n professloit Ilosq Aj, hest
Mr. llaNtio. Two interests. Out oft-heti was $0N lfduction in Comunllitllist Idhlo1shy, which we did by makiwlg iok r lorts to each other, really. Alit In the tH,,old lhae, at. Ihe tinilo I wO, il it., at.. temptlttg to control l to whatever ueg' eo po.qIblo th p lc Of tlh Teachers' Union. Whnado you mean by the Teamelmers' IUnion I
Mr,'1'AKwtNCI. ,
Mr. 1IKIN. I inean t that tfiui tilt%Atitel, un Feldt'altllo Of Teacher,,Lcal 49i0. I would like to mty that. I bolievo that hlal 413t) had its clhrter 'evoked by the nation id organiiauttion and thal, th i)rmoit 'l'enmhers' Union in Lis Anget!es has itnow ehartor. 
Mr. 'I'AvF.NN. When was that loal4's clhtrter revokedI Ate. lHIRmot. I believe sotuetime within the lnst. 2 or il years.
Mr. 'l'AVENut. Do youl know tlt,easons for the revoc-atlon V
Mr. H N. ON. I know front what I have read itthe newspapers that ther wet'e charges of Cotuuittltst infiltratio, and the union purged itself of that. 
Mr, Tv Ar.NNa.R, So, then, if T understand yon correctly, the two ilteretS of this (1olllllinist Pai'ly grollp %W.O stlf-edtleation in 1iti Communist theory. Mfr. HUtNON. Yes, sir. ,lr. T 4,10. NlvN Fi. And controlling the iollcies of tiu Teachlttwl' Lolcal ir.HFV.NDON. Yes.
Mr. TAv.NNEit.it your stidy of Communist. Party literature, cal you advise the comrnitee inorelfilly its to just what, hat. covered
Mr. HFtNnO,. I had been nccelted in tho teiIlers Iunit wiithoit Any formal indoctrination period$ and I iiagine that some of the other nienbet's had been accel)ted iithe siilie way hecailse wo were supposed to sort of catelitup on general pnrty,theory, and also keep abr4mist of the latest explanations of the challge in party line at.all times. I don't think we really did in tie teachers' unit. a very good job of either one of those. The Communist Party literature is written, i large part of it, in a special vocabulary, a special jargont, which Is hard to read and rather unpleasant to read unless you have been brought np on it, and I think we rather skippe(l our hoimework ailnnents a good part, of the time.
Mr. TA-Y.xF.R. How was this Communist Party material obtained?
Mr. HF.RNw-N.. There were at the time a couple of bookstores in Los Angeles. There was 1 on Western Avenue, 1 downtown on, I believe, Spring Street, and 1 member of the party-i member oi (V(MhItJNiWP#AVONI~TPS,IN 111)t flljI)PIOfe(lug Hld 1110Ct 1111F L'K OR AN(If,4. AtIMA IItS , biookttieset. 505 11PWpivul III roIther W~OVI'N OtNIIIliI O; t!muilt NIMI lilift'I.41 All'. l11,1NNItN. It did,1 Nll'. 1liiINiiON. 1 don't. belIPVP 11coply of flint, Wilk I-VtI'1 mold %1ileI It, wits for sot IliIt InIititikstif, Mi-.XIAiU11Y. It iS11lit I I. to0 t 1itigiui for OIIi'tlftyreulig Nit'. I liilNnu'N. I IInIVP miTd VerY li11(of 49, not 1 IlligV4. 1 witH il t il' Unit1. X11'. Ilrn11Nw.N. It IS. 1110ugi to the1414 iuet,idorWis % ' tI1-he0re NI r. TlAVtIN NI-t. DI )il o s 11u iuig.s ft %It-if IIeM woirk of I 1fi' it lit I '4,ngels ? t it'sM. v' a11)(11dof O140f It NMrI. I It-liiml. Y(.4: 1 4.i11 'il I.t'il' MI'. 'l'Vws.NNF.u. WV11l, I u-1l HIMc to hnolt!V Wvluit th0y Werf.. fillj wrilit inl, 11tid I reteu Et''~nsls onl V'nle, Pict'e, it Iroft. Nii* l'TVIIN NP. 1)1) Ou tetil PPit nIso tlti various works4 of Foster? Mli'. iImNi~omN. Not, lw unme. I kiiow he wrote n,good fniny pain. JHem old( t t11e uteetiangS. Itllts wlilil mafy hOIti N 'I . 1t NNHIit I ih spea'ikinig of William Z. Fosterr, whio waft thle liend of Si'li ( !omanu111ist, 11111.y ill (lie0 United 1Statles at that time.
Mr. 'IAVF.NN.Ifl. Wlteic wore these bookstores located id what were their. ntiaieNY NMr. I IflNixiN. OMe of tlteiii WON, called the IPror1S.Ri ye Hook Store.
Mrt.TAVE~'iNNY.R. Wtold you state thatS again, p ease? Ali'. HER'tNDON. ']'lilt I'Igressivo Book Store. A'. TIAVE~NNER. WhI Ore WON it located? All'. I I iMI~)ON. I dot. kntow whiet her it WaN thip one on Northwomctrm Avenue or (1w otne onl South Sprin~g Street..
Mr.l'I'AviN.-4P. Is it, Still in eXi.4tt'nce?
Mr. hI~itI.Idon'tknow. Id(ofl'. elieve so-no; he'auseI haliive k't',t by hot.), p~lace's.
Mr. 'IAViNNi,t. Thleft whitt. was tile iamo of Clie seoud bookstore yoi reforreti to?
MrII. HIERNDOtN. I t'Iimot t'eitembhet'. Air. 'IAVENNFI. D)O YOU remember thle location? Well, I think possibly I should tiot. usk volt thatt question if youi (loll' recall the til11ti1P of (itt'store, So I witldrmw the questions. hiring (lie courise of y'ouri Conmmunist Party meetings were you adtdiessed from tune to time b~y high fuinctionitris of the (1'omniunist lit-y
Mr. HinNI)ON. NO. Alr1. TlAVENF.R. You were not? All. ITFIiNtxON. No.
Mr. TIAVENNERt. li y'our Comnitiist Party Pxereielce, tdid you becomne ac'qtuinted with finctionaries of the Conmmunist Party on a higher level thian that of your group? Air. llitNDoN. Ini the niext ighes t level we had a contoiet with the prtofeRmionail section, and a contact with-I don't know whether it was 506 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGLES AREA a contact with the county or with another contact with the profes. sional section. But there were two so-called professional Comnmunists who sometimes attended our meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were they?
Mr. HvioN. A woman named Jane Wallace, I think.
Mr. TAv'NNE. Do you know whether that was her party name or her actual namely
Mr. HUaNDON. I ani not sure whether it was Jane Wallace or it was Jane Wilson, and I don't know which was which; Jane Wallace or Jane Wilson.
Mr. CiARDY. If he can identify her any furtherMr. TAVENNFJt. Can you give us any further identifying informationMr. HrINI*DON. Other than the name, no.
Mr. TAVE.NNER. Of the individual?
Mr. HFRNDON. Of the individual?
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether the individual was a fulltime employee of the communist Party or whether the person had some other occupation ?
Mr. HERNDON. I understood she was a full-time employee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the name of the second person ?
Mr. HERNDON. Anne-I got her mixed up with someone else, now.
Mr. CLARDY. Perhaps he had better give it a little more thought.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly you should wait and see if the name occurs to you later in the course of your testimony.
Mr. CLARDY. I would rather we didn't get anything unless he is stlle. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. I think if you are not sure abouta name you should not suggest that it was possibly so and so. We want only your very positive and distinct recollection. I want to read to you and make a )al't of the record some things that were said about the teachers and the teaching profession in the Communist Party literature as a basis for asking you additional questions. In volume 23 of Lenin, at page 499, there appears this statement: Today the chief task of those members of the teaching profession who have taken their stand with the International and the Soviet Government is to work for the creation of a wider and, as nearly as possible, an all.embracing teachers' union. Of course, Stalin at that time was writing in Russia and he was writing on the subject generally. Again at page 500, Lenin has this to say: Your union should now become a broad teachers' trade unlon embracing vast numbers; a union which will resolutely take up its stand on the Soviet platform and the struggle for socialism by means of a dictatorship of the proletariat. Do you recall whether that part of Lenin was actually discussed in your special group within the teachers' group?
Mr. HERNDON. I don't recognize either of those quotations as having heard them before.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like also to read you a paragraph from Toward Soviet America by William Z. Foster, printed in 1932, relating to the subject of education. He said: Among the elementary measures the American Soviet Government will adopt to further the cultural revolution are the following: (COMMUNST 'ACTIVITIES IN THE ,08 ANOELES AREA 5, The schools, college, and universities will be coordinated and grouped underthe National Department of Education and Its State and local branches, The studies will be revolutionized, being cleansed of religious, patriotic, au other features of the bourgeois Ideoloy. The students will be taught on the basis of Marxian dialectical materalim, InternationalIsin, and the general ethics of the now Socialist society, 'resent obsolete methods of teaching will be superseded by a scientific pedagogy. Religious schools will be abolished. Do you recall that portion of Foster's volume on Toward Soviet America having been read or discussed in your meetingsI fNDON. I reliember the title of the book, as we were recomMir. I1 mended to read it, and I evidently never read it because I don't re- member that passage. 
Mr. TAVENN:R. Were you informed by higher functionaries of the Conunmunist Party fully aIs to what the Communist Party intended to accomplish by infiltration into the teachers' groups?
Mr. IEIINION. No, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNERI. In this connection I want. to read you an excerpt from the Communist, an organ commonly referred to as an organ of the Communist Party, of May 1937, entitled "The School and the People's Front," by Richard #rank. Richard Frank was it member of the education cotiilission of the Young Communist League. He had this to say: The task of the Communist Party must be first and foremost to arouse the teachers to class congclousness and to organize them Into the aerican Federation of Teachers, which Is the ain current of the American labor government. In the effort to organize the teachers every care must btt taken to bring together in united front actions all existing teachers' organizations. Especlal attention must be paid to secure such action with the American Association of University Professors, the National Education Association anl the Guild. Our party members in theow organizations inust work actively toward that end. Well, do you recall those purposes or objectives of the Communist Party being disctlsed at your meetingsI
Mr. HERNDON. 'T'he part you read about increasing working-class consciousness among teachers, yes, that sort of thing. The influence on the teachers' unit of tle Communist Party at the time I was in it seemed to be not based on any broad general philosophy, but on, rather, week-by-week or month-by-montIt piecemeal actions in favor of this, that or the other.
Mr. TAVENNF.R. Now, yon have stated that 1 of the principal objectives 1 of the 2 principal objectives, as you understood it, of your particular group of the Communist Patty was to control the policies of the teachers' local.
Mr. HINDON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNm. Did that include also the ability to take over the organization and influence it generally?
Mr. HEtNrNoD . By "take over the organization," we did not want to have a complete sltte of officers, for instance, who were Communists. We had the secretary of the union during the time I was there, and sie was a Communist. I think she was perhaps the only member of the governing hoard who was a Communist, But that, you see, was the contact and the in for the Communist Party. We didn't want to head it. The Communists didn't want to head it. They wanted to have people who were not possibly compromised running it for them, and they would pull the wires Iehind the 808 cOIMMUNIFs ACTIVITIER N TJTH LOR ANOELE8 ARNA, dewno. Dbmilnatlon in that sense, yes, but not by electing a complete slate of officers.
Mr. TAVyHNr.R. Now, the Teachers' Union was composed of many teachers who were not in any sense members of the Communist Party or even sympathetic to the Communist Party, is thnt right?
Mr. 1IF'tNDON. I myself had Joined it in4acramento in 1029, praetically before I heard of the Communist Party, on its own merits. 'Mr. 'rAVPNNVR. How many people were members of Local 430 of the Teacher's Union I
Mr. 14titmnox. I do not know.
Mr. TAVNERin. Can you give us a general idea I
Mr. HrINDoN. The membership must have been much larger than the attendance at meetings. At meetings we would have 150 or 200 members, perhaps.
Mr. CI IDY. How frequent were those meetingsI
Mr. HEUNnOx. I believe once a month.
Mr. CIJRDY. That was about the average attendance? 
Mr. HuaNnoz. One hundred and fifty members average.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many members were there in this Communist Party unit which was seeking to exert its influence on the union? Mi. Hatr oN. Eight, ten, twelve.
Mr. CLARDY. Of course, the 8, 10, or 12 were a cohesive unit with a definite objective, so you were able to sell your ideas to those at least wito just at random differed on particular subjects? .Mr. H.RNDON. Exactly yes, because the Communist Party acted as a unit, frequently would dissolve its meeting, the formal meeting, and reconvene as a fraction of the teachers' units to discuss what was com- ing up, to plan motions and seconds to motions, and so on, and plan just what route would be followed in case anything unforeseen came up, and we could call the party caucus iu- advance of the executive board of the union. We caucus4d before the executive board and also we caucused in advance of the general membership meetings.
Mr. CLARDY. So at the meeting you had all your moves planned both for the executive committee and for the membership meetings. . Mr. HEnNDoN. The Communists came early, stayed late, and volunteered for the dirty jobs.
Mr. CLARDY. And outshouted the rest of them when that became necessary, I take it?
Mr. HnNDoIm. If necessary.
Mr. TAVENwNE. Did this type of activity continue during the entire eriod of your membership in the teachers' unit of the Communist Party?
Mr. HERmoN. Yes. 
Mr TAvENnR Would you state to the committee, please, whether in your judgment your Communist Party unit was fairly successful in its endeavors in connection with the Teachers' Union?
Mr. Emunw. It was very successful in its endeavors. We were careful not to try anything too raw, so we would try only things which were slightly raw', because if we tried anything too raw we would have been slapped down by the membership at large.
Mr. Climy. I take it you really never lost out on an important issue that you wanted to raise?
Mr. HnNDoN. Not that I can remember. My memory is quite vague on specific issues at this distance. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOn:LES AREA 509 
Mr. CtAnDy. I would Imagine it would be.
Mr TAVENNER Can You recall any particular instance when the Communist unit set about a deliberate plan to cause the Teachers' Union to follow its leadership in any outstanding matter?
Mr. IHENDON. Not specifically.
Mr. TAvxNNYR. Do you know whether or not the Communist Party endeavored, to your knowledge, to have the Teachers' Union adopt resolutions that related to matters outside of its own immediate sphere of operations, slci us on international questions or foreign policies of the Government ommatte,'s of that kind as to which the Communist 6 Party line changed from time to time?
Mr. HERNDON. I can remember telegrams, for Instance, being authorized by the resolutions of the membership on matters of housing, on matters-on Spain, also, on which the Communist Party line of the moment was followed.
Mr. TAVENNERI. Were such matters endorsed and approved at your meetings of the Communist Party members, which were held prior to the meetings of the Teachers' Union f
Mr. HERINDON. 'They were and that was pursuant to instructions from above, which would frequently come in the form of directives in the Communist newspapers, that all Communist organizations should get the non-Communist organizations with which they were affiliated to further certain policies of the party nationally.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall any instance in which they took a position with respect to the foreign policy of this country or the Soviet Union I
Mr. HERNDON. I cannot.
Mr. TAvENN~EJ. Can you give us the names of the schools or institutions which were represented in this Communist unit of the professional units of the Communist Part ?
Mr. HERNDON. I wouldn't say the schools were represented. There was a member from the City ollege of Los Angeles. There was a . . A member from the junior high schools.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think possibly at this time it would be well to identify, if he can, who the member or members were from the various sclool..
Mr. HERNDON. There was a man named Norman Byrne from the City College. There was a high school, a junior high school in North Hollywood I do not know the name of the high school. The teacher's name was ilarry Shepro. Roosevelt High Sclool, there was a teacher named Rose P-o-s-e-l-l. And Lewis and myself from Glendale College. rvENNE. What was Lewis' first name?
Mr. T
Mr. HERNDoN. Richard Byrd Lewis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he have a nickname or a pseudonym?
Mr. HNoN. Dick was his nickname.
Mr. TAvxzN1;. Can you recall the names of other persons from other institutions?
Mr. HEIINDON. Those are the only names whose schools I can remember at this time. I may never have known the schools these people were from. We were very secretive with one another and very secretive within the party as to the other units. I didn't know, for instance, of certain knowledge what other professional units there were besides 510 COMMUNIST ACVIRLIS IN TIM LOS ANGELES ARFIA teaching. I know there were others, I can't say(eertainly what ntiher there were. 
Mr. CLARDY. Each cell was more or less hermetically salmed agaitist the rest. 
Mr. HzRNDON. At that time, yes.
Mr. ToAVmNNiEP. We have learned in the course of these hearing from the testimony of Mr. Ashe that the purpose of forming tie -professional cells, was to give the members of the profemions a type of security which other persons in the Coniunnst Party (lid not eniov. 
Mr. HxMoI. Exactly. 
Mr. 'T'AVEaa415. Now, were most of the members in that group members of the Teachers' Union Local 480? 
Mr. HyENDoN. All of them who were in teaching were, I believe.
Mr. TAVENRP.V. But there were some persolis it your group who were not teachersI
Mr. HUNDoN. There were some people whose status was-there was the wife of one there. I am not sure whether slit, was o over had been a teacher.
Mr. TAv;rR. What was her nameI
Mr. HEnNDox. Anna Shepro. Site was a ntember for a short time and dropped out.
Mr. TAVENNzR. Do you recall how many locals of the Teachers' Union there were in the State of California at that time?
Mr. HERNDON. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You know there were others.
Mr. H NsvoN. There were others. I was a charter member of the local which was formed in Glendale and Burbank, which never amounted to much, died of lack of interest, and that was born on orders from the party.
Mr. CLARDY. From whom did the orders come?
Mr. HRNDoN. I don't know, sir, and I don't suppose we were encouraged to ask these questions. As I remember At, r didn't ask many questions.
Mr. CLARDY. You mean someone in your own local group just advised the group that he had orders from higher up to set up this proram and you all blindly followed through?
Mr. HERoto. That is about it.
Mr. CLARDY. Who was the secretary of your group?
Mr. HraNDoN. They changed at various times. The idea was more -or less to rotate the officers. I cannot remember anyone who was secretary. . Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the names of other persons in your group who may not have been teachers at the time You gave us the wife of Mr. Shepro as one. Now, were there others that you can recall?
Mr. Hz DON. Another wife of another member, and I am not sure whether she is a teacher or not or whether she merely attended our meetings because of family convenience.
Mr. TAwsN. Well, just a moment. If it is a mere matter of family convenience, I don't believe I will ask you any questions, unless you are certain she was a member of your group.
Mr. immWoN. I could not be that certain oTit. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THR 1LOS ANGELES AREA 511 
Mr. TAVNNPR. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Jane HoweI
Mr. HEENnoN, Jane Howe is the name that I remembered as Anne. It is not Anne. It is Jane Howe. That was the name I couldn't remember a minute ago.
Mr. TAVPNNPR. Do you know whether she went by another name, used another name also?
Mr. IlF.RNDoN. Site did, but I can't be sure what it was. 
Mr. TAVE~NNER. Was it Anne Kinney? 
Mr. HnNDON. I believe it was. I believe it was.
Mr. TAVENNE.R. Well, Anne Kinney has testified before the committee in executive session, and has admitted her membership in the Communist Party. In fact, she testified that she was at one time a Socialist, and that there was a Communist Party unit organized within the Socialist Party of which she was a member, and Mr. Ashe, who was one of the early witness in this hearing, was also a member and who had testified to it. She also testified how she was assigned to this particular unit, your unit of the Teachers' Union, and that she left the party, I believe in October of 1045, and has not been a member of the party since. Now, she further testified that she was on a committee which had the job of disciplining members of the Communist Party where occasion for such a thing existed. Do you know anything about that? Do you know anything about discipline that was exercised within the Communist Party by a committee? * Mr. HERNDON. Only by hearsay. I heard that there were disciplinary committees which were supposed to be very fierce organizations, but there were no disciplinary cases in regard to anyone whom I knew while I was in the party.
Mr. CLARDY. You yourself were never disciplined by the party?
Mr. HERNDON. No formal reprimands after a formal hearing or anything of the sort. There was a good deal of self-criticism and informal slapping down of members who were slack in any way. At my first party meeting I was too frightened. I was told to stand up on my feet and give a 8-minute speech on why it was important not to come 2 minutes late. I came in 2 minutes after 8 or whatever it was. - I suppose you would call that informal discipline. (Representative Donald L. Jackson reentered the hearing room at this point, 11 a. m.)
Mr. JAocKSON. Did your group of the Communist Party endeavor to exercise its influence over the Teachers' Union to the extent of con.trolling the delegates from the teachers' local to the State or National conventions which it had?
Mr. HzitNuoN. I imagine so, but I can't say so of certain knowledge.
Mr. JAcKSON. Did you ever attend the State or National convention as a delegate?
Mr. HER roN. No sir.
Mr. TAvENNER. Did you ever attend a fraction meeting of the Communist Party?
Mr. HzRNwoN. I attended what was called the State fraction meeting, which was held in San Luis Obispo, I don't know when, and I don't know where it was. I think I know who I went with. I can 512 ICOMMNINI AC.IVIViITI1l4 IN TIMH IA)K AN(E4PK ANN~A IeII)OII11MtI' Where wo hltd (111ituirs I will't, iellbivllrW111- we tlot Olit Single thitig (t111 wil IVI11lFeltI4HI'd a III(he ow1141g. t11111 1asolildet i t lik owm hu'k of ineiotty, I hatve bomi tiryhi eveI. since 1 wits sHl) po)ied it)wila thiN. I 6I4ONO111, 111 Withi wi 11) INIII'8N6ii 1140 )I)I1411 ~Ath I 11111idu I 111v ftl-tit'u I hi , III' t Cry tol forget, thi11g1 Ianti I 10UIolyo3I Cal Ill temtber, It wai s it 'euti l ueti letig wil %V11 hold ln iti 4111 ls11 Obispo. I vWetit Itr wiet WIt i t tuttibet' of l~iiu'inhriq of ditlit, 111a(d the pur-po.4 was to Mittle pollty lit th11 eonding State Cettion of thi T6eachers'4 Ah. ir, AVNoh. )uai'ty "INi lit Wdtls Inne treahh. nOther ools of tile stito tilt Ill th111 tract bitl nititlogf hie. TAVICNNKI1. YOU sfild "Y0s14 UP. HIt ?OOt, Yea.
Mr, TAmtNKa, ITh Itudleateg, then, that thee weoro Ciomnilst orlsnalittioel within othlep loeills of tile 11111io filte State. Ilk".NIMMI. Y085. hit, TA INNI911, C1111 y0U tell ON lIow 1111111Y 1)1301)113 fittlidtld that fracetionl meeting I Ate. It1ttmoWm. I elannlot, even r(VIII to min11d tile rooli Ihi 111 the hl"etiug WAS held, which I should be able to See.
Mr %VVN~ C111 .1ou1 give Its thle 1111mes Of [Ily Of 0athe poison Who Attended ill 10dition to Vourlself?
Mr. lIHrmmN. Otte delegilte from tiwaford, Dra. Hlhand Itobilt. mr. rlAvx~NN~ot. w~ill vou spell thle tane, pltease? Froixnt illy owm upit,I Noritua Byrne, Jine Howe, Marjorie, hay, my- mlf, Iticlmard Lewis, mid Otte other p~ersont wtotin I emofllt re)Il&'hihWI. 1 only know there were t0 people. Air. TAvtrN~t1. You usedl Cte nante Mar'jorie liay. 
Mr. IIERNI)O1. AMarjorie, mvl wats a Illimber of (110 h'tolerm' uit. Shte was seretary of thle unlionl 'whlit I was ill tile lunit Mir. TVINNx1i. Wits 8he I% teacher at that tiief
Mr. IImsaw,% A former teacher, I believe. Yes, it former teacher. Air. rAvIKXNXR. Were therelllN ffiyter 1110it1her4 of yotir Commitnist Party group who becme oflh'ers o~f the local unidonf
Mr IT-txvo-. I don't rieniber. There niay have been.
Mr. TAvxmma. Were thle members of your union called upon at sny time to conduct, meetings of other groups or appear at meoetinigs of other groups of the Communist Party?
Mr. HEUNn)OV. DO You meltAn, MrV. ravenn~er, members of my unit?
Mr. TAvpmma Yes; your unit. of thle Communist 11rty 'Ur. Iimox. I know*that I did no outside spoukinjg. I believe, during that time, Norman Byrne did somte outside speaking. I don't know of other members who may have. Mfr. T.Atrvxai Do you know how the arrangements were made for him to spek at other place or at other nieetings?
Mr. Hwmx~?. No.
Mr. TAvxEx.Nx. Is there any other activity of your group which you oan tell the committee? COMMtiNIl AC'rlI'l1P21 IN TIM 10CAP ANeIP.1dl ARMP 518 MVr, I IpiNlINX ()ls, Virlioil4m f ~iso oft fill JI fIig PIjliVifh14, Hiilb. INj'0 1dil' W01-dl WO i lilg diri VI'm for' 1li44New A1I1II114 11 of 1,111 W0%14113)JIOHEIl 10 gist, 1-11 Of V01114-14 of 141011 I liliags It" frilipip!ij) M090coW14I rkln, JVP WOild(1111 liNMIglif1I '2Ol- 1 4-0i4114 fiin ildl 11 ) go Out eHs plioppI( would III U1 engh 1111( 14(l ChiowE wii biiig liek hoiiilley.( be atfl-fid to do fihea. SONt of ldI-1g, no theiy would pmiere'y Irlng linek seriljioii (il~j(1 of l~ lit i'mii-f ile,4 ilowhil OlN, the mmmllv 11 itud 'flhe feilehmel-1' imimil 4-olletl-aiff-d With 1,h11Hllywood proffeHmional (Ir lthill# Sectio III1 lIi lig f it-hill."to wlilitS,Ifly 1lu0 why, f ro. giVNPi 11'IfohYWeod. 'Iflat I Cantu serieN Of Old PIIOVi('1 whIhel W1114 Py, l11it. mender is 'l1me ,Pipow~ il" fmom I in I-1illig forf le 1n iiin'11w grIotp P'lieuIIiragtedto join 1111111i1i11-14 of f$11114
Mr. 'lAVPNNMEf I-P 1 1111~ Cominunlst-f'oit orgatuiznlois 
Mr, llr.CNelom, Yl194 
Mr. 'lAI'SN Nra, WIii thley were,. fll011w Wmpriltfe'e 'oP nhoilit. $hilt. jplfase 
Mr, I-IINP)ON. AtCif fl ims flin (,oumuumlint. we very itiferfte'l ill ex jnmiig Ilif,141i 111u1 AmpIniHHIII hi ltA;ipfingtoo fAop thmei, forward 11111141) Ml hiroAvo Wfll nrgmriziif eti whieh I think ef EliCtat f imn woe" called (lie Aimericai Lengi Agatnst War and IFaw-lirn. It clonrged Its 11111 1111111 411to 114 lie' Anmicnnt IA-11lif) for P'ene and IPenriewiy, Und we WP'l0 fill Ntif)104l to)Ile nI(ienierg (if Clint. Whenl I was first in thel Party we wero oe(otirfge1 tip come meimberf of t-iI( Friends1 of the Abrahm Lineoln Balmnion, which wai at group of Ameriean volmentimelie Ilgllfinlj for'1 HIMiili HItcpiblio and1( i4potowiredf, I beilinve, by the Communist Party.
Mr. 'iAV11NHPYle I)o you recall whether yoiu were urged to join Cho Friends of fhliMoviet Union ?
Mr. I-imiNIw. I kiw of t he orgatiiziif ion,~ but, I don't believe we were encocrugeh to join it. I wni; not.
Mr. TAvPNrnKi. Now) how did your group handle the question of recruitment Into tie party?
Mr. Iln~exr. B~y pep talks, but hot much action,
Mr. TAvSNNPBq. Well, did you invite members of the fwielty of the varioos Schools from which your members had comns to meetings for the purpo"' of interesting them into coming into the Communist Party?
Mr. lfrleNm)ON. We talked about it but 1 don't believe we ever did during the time I was in the party. Wewere afraid of exposng onrsolves. We didn't know anyone who wall ripe enough to 0joi0n. We wore sqposcdl to do that, but we couldn't find enough candidates.
Mr.rAVKVNNXII Well did you use your own name in signing your" Communist Party card '
Mr. HiUNDO?. We used an alias and then the name was penciled in-the right name was penciled in in some cases, but we all of us had what was calledI a party name.
Mr. TAvaNNzR. Whatt was your party name
Mr. HiP4 NioN. Joe Anderson.
Mr. JAOCKSON. Let me ask one question. Did you pick your own party name or did the party pick it for youI
Mr. HrwN. I picked that one.
Mr. JAoJnsor. They qava you some latitude.
Mr. HZaNFO. Yes,sir. 61747-483--'Pt. 2- 514 COMMUNITY ACtIVI'rI:H IN 'T'tII I,0H AN(IFIjI4 AIIIA 
Mr. 'I'AVFNNhII. Will you tell t he comit,1ite whether or tot you have engaged in atly Communist. Patly association Ol- allliation since the tihe you wlthdlrew from tle party t 
Mr. Iri'HNim . I stayed as far away I could p)o.ibly get. from those people as I thought 
Mr. 'I'Av RNNER. Whit activity, if an1y, have you eligaged in since your illicit iol of good iaith ill you left, t It I)lrty which Woull h fill V? tl,.ebing s Iiool to tile very bst~w partwnllk the to withdrawal ColuIJ)letO I we,frolill..hck A r. 11 11,11NI)N. of Ily ability. I have joined to orgaizilal m1. I had a perhaps irrata .e soee olrgauizitiolim which tioia fear of orgauiziat iolls. 'Il'lete have called tlihtnselves atli-('omntuuiit.lisC tl havo beeii called proComtumnist and I frankly disti'used lly OW. Political judgme.. wiich had so had i Ibell eatinglite illto he ( oIliIllsi Party. I (lilt of orIllitiiit for itwillie. ' flougt. [ l)eitt tIstay lie eirCvinistanct.i Well, will you tell lite cmii1eit
Mr. 'l',TA'N-rS. which led you to the decision to get out, of lite (ominunixt. Party
Mr. ]lP.iiNioN. I was trlaiferre iwith iotler neinber to a unit, whichIet in Plasadei, and I ws ohld tha t l 10 unit wa dyilg on its feet and that I,being one of the youngest inetbers uithe teacliers' uni-1 think tile yoligest-was . i)1 osed to go over there and revivify it, and by thant tim l, e beginlllg of 11)40, Stalin Iliid signed his pact with Hitler, aind 111h1dnt beenu able to believe it. I though, tie CollliIuInist breast would (ollip ow witi sole fine Irelisoln behi1d this Action and that it would be explai1td away. Well, I waited a long itme. i am still waiting for an explanation whichl Woul explaili it away. I see now that I Iwsbecolntlig ver-y disillusioned with tlle ¢otiiuuist Party at that time. I went over to Pasildell aindi the uniti was dying oi its feet, and tlhey had very lile in ColilllOn outside (f wele not teelchers, Inostly. Wet1 ily hiterst iicomitilunistin was beconi(olIuIIItilisill, adll([ til ititeriest, ill ing leIs and l.ss. I used my' school work is an excuse. At the time I was designlig and building stage scenery for school production and I had a good excuse to miss meetings-. I skipped as muich as I could. I had inoperation that summer. I spent a ionti in bed. I slent. 2 tohtis it Mexico on leave front the iarty. That fall I went back rather sporadically, becoming more and more disgusted with the whole thing, and when Staliti invaded Finland I gave up. I went away and didn't come back. I had decided by that tite-what I had joined was supposed to be the teachers' unit of tie h1ollywood professional section of the Comnunist Party of the United lstates, aid I decided finally that I had more than enough evidence to l)etplsuide tie that the so-called Com,nunist Party of tile Unitd States was absolutely nothing more nor less than a tool of the Soviet foreign policy, of Russian foreign policy, and I didn't. want any part of it.
Mr. TAV.NX.r. Aid as a result you made the decision to get out of it and to stay outI
Mr. HMF.X4(. Yes. I should have done it sooner, of course. I had heard all sorts of tales of disciplinary committees and goon squads and I thought someone would (rive up beside me and finish me off, perhaps. Actually, I really had nothing to fear.
Mr. TAvET..-vx I lhave not asked you any question about the efforts of the teachers in your unit to influence students in the schools, if they 4CO MLU f1 AOCITVITIB IN THEO LOS ANGELES AtEA r15 made any effort at all. Was that matter dlscisse(it at, aiy time if your group ineetitigs?
Mr. HERNI N. Of co1rse, a good CoiniuInIist was Supposed to influence allybody and evel'ybody, but a 3)rofes4.4ionll, it ( oinniinit in the pr'ofessional section, aid esecially it teacher Co1iniiiitlt, had something else to think about, anl that was that, lie must on no accoullt, llow himself ito I eXposed ofr lehd aloitsa ( ollmnilist. 11, was fil0. it would I'aeit her1'1iliill lteIVcher'. stlyi.
Mr. 'l'TAVENN.:I, W1at, do 3'011 1101aM by tlt, might, cr1111t lie teacher's slyle?
Mr. JIfIINIDON. It IteilChlr is going to be promulgating In 1i8 la.4 III (otinin..is, l'iiiiy lie (lily aifter (1l1y, il tIlost cases it, would lNM-wIie it liltlha too obvious thitt, hie it teinchihig tle Commlnift Party lihue l1( not. te*llhifg hils subject, hill wouldi hehfe Suie us expo4s- hiliself nllld brnl'lding hlls, 111111 it, thlllt, timefhe Cloillilllst;l)s believed that it leher who wasH I known Communist was a t eher almost wit holl, influelceo. ing Mi'. JACi;I(4N. MAIY I ask II (IIIe. iOll Ihere? VIy wIre t('llPhes'. (Olimidelr'id o lii of . lch great i1il1ltl'licet'O th1l1, it, wals felt mII(Psi5ry to take sti'h exrex m e ieiures it) l)rveiit their (li.'losrlro s ( ot. munists? Were they considered important in the Communifst Party pichlure, IlehersI 
Mr. 1le;I(mrn.N. i'l(ell(r. i'gallizaitt 101l13 ill the Couilmiiist, 'arty, I think slot. 'They were consii(l'ed itllpoirtiit as potential lJ)op'otenlially as propagandists they were c(flid,,red] ieryI important. Actually, here were rather few. There were ahot, 70') teachers in Glendale at the time, and I only know of myself and ont, other who were members. (Short recess was taken.) After the recess, at 11: 40 a. m., Representatives Donald L. Jackson, Kit Clardy, Gordon H. Scherer, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde )oyle, and James B. Frazier, Jr., reentered the hearing room.)
Mr. JACKsoN. The committee will be in order.
Mr. TAvENNEr. In the earlier part of your testimony, Mr. Ilerulon I understood you to say there were approximately 12 members oi this Communist larty unit in the professional group of which 'oiu FanI(li.t$. weie a member. 
Mr. HHUNrroN. Yes.
Mr. TAvJNNFRj. I have already asked you to give us the names of those who were teachers. I think you have done that.
Mr. HI NeON. I gave you the nanes of those teachers whose specific schools I know. There were others who were teachers of schools I do not know, whose names I know.
Mr. TA RNIVmR. Mr. Herndon, will you give ius the names of the other teachers that you know I
Mr. HJtuNn . There was a mian nated Sam Kalish, K-a-I-i-s-l, who was a night school teacher, who attended very few meetings on that account.
Mr. TAvWNIR1. Can you give any further identifying information in regard to him?
Mr. HARNinoN. I may have seen him only a few times. He was a member before I was, f know that.
Mr. TAvzBNNR. If you will proceed. 516 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THI' LOS ANIGELER, AREA 
Mr. TltNnoN. Norman Byrne, whose nane I already gave. Mar- orio Beeker. Hay, H-a-y. Harry Shepro, S-h-e-p-r-o, and Anna Shepro. zara 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give any further identifying information?
Mr. HrENnON. No further identifying information. An English teacher.
Mr. TAvENNEn. Excuse me?
Mr. HNi rN. An English teacher, I can say that, yes. Zara Becker-pardon. Barta Numovna, Htonord Carey, Matilda Lewis, Abe Minkus.
Mr. TAvJ.NEn. Can you give us any further identifying informal. tion regarding him?
Mr. J-YtitNwo. I know lie didn't teach hi h school. I know he didn't teach senior high school. That is all I Fnow.
Mr. TAVz.NF.i. Do you know how long lie was a member of your group?
Mr. HEmNNo. He became a member after I entered, and he was still In when I left. His wife, Libby Minkus, who, I believe, was not a teficher and myself, and Richard Byrd Lewis, no relation to the Matilda Lewis. Matilda Lewis, by the way, did not come to meetings for more than a short while. She may have left the party or been transferred, 1 am not sure which, before I left.
Mr. TAVzr;1ER. Now, you have told us that you were'sent on a mission to another area to attempt to revive t Coimnunist Party group which was beginning to weaken.
Mr. HERNDON. Yes.
Mr. TAVENln. Where was that?
Mr. HEENDoN. That was in Pasadena and it was a mixed group.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by "mixed group"?
Mr. HEUNDON. Not one profession. In fact, not even entirely professional.
Mr. TAvENNER. Do you remember how many members there were?
Mr. HERzDoN. Well, including the 2 of us who were sent there, 10.
Mr. TAVENNFR. Who were the 8 members who were originally members of that group, before you went over?
Mr. HE NDON. I can remember only 2 names, a man and his wife. At his home we met. I don't know what they did, now. Another man and his wife. The man, I believe, was a dentist. A man who was an instructor.
Mr. TAVENNE. Let me ask you, are you positive of the names of the individualsMr. HERNDON. I cannot--haven't the faintest recollection of the names of those four. And I have attempted to remember. I spent an hour and a half last Saturday driving around Pasadena, trying to locate the two houses in which we had met. I was fairly sure I had found one, and the other one I was conipletely at a loss to find, although I knew about where to look for it.
Mr. TAVzMENR. Have you, by one means or another refreshed your recollection so that you can positively remember them
Mr. 11ronao. Tvo people.
Mr. TAvz1mm. Can you identify them by name? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AUEA 517 
Mr. HEENDON. Yes, 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please do soI His
Mr. HEItNDON. One of them wits an instructor at Caltedh. name was Sidney WeiltberjO There was another man who, I think, may be dead. He was an e lierly man at the time.
Mr. TAENN911. Just a minute.
Mr. IJEIaNIt)N. I feel a little reluctant in giving his name.
Mr. TAVENNER. If the person isdecreased, 1 don't want to press the (htq,.tion.
Mr. ,JAC sON. I think not. All'. IIFtNI)(N. lie waIs a member from Glendale, not from Pasadena.
Mr. 'IAVIINNER. I will ask yot to make some further i quiry yourself its to whet her or not the ildividinal you have in mind is deceased, and ,4k you to advise the investigator of 01le colninittee, who is stationed hore, of the result of your investigation.
Mr. I ItIINION. I think I maiy 1o able to (1o so.
Mr. TAVENNEIt. Did that grotip of the Conmmnist Paitrly (comit imue inits 01)erations? 
Mr. IIlFiN[DON. Yes; I think it became weaker, rather than stronger, though.
Mr.'IAVENNER. Wits it still in existence when you left the Commun ist Party?
Mr. 1mrNDON. It was. 
Mr. T'IAVF.NNEl. H1ave you had aly knowledge of its operations since you left the COm(innst Party?
Mr. HEU oN. This man Sidney Weinberg I came twice to my house away, with no explanation to ask me to come back, after I had stayed whatsoever. I didn't say, "Goodby. ' I just stayed away. Both times I told him, "I am far too busy. I have to work nights. I think not."
Mr. TAVENNFR. Can you fix the approximate time when that occurred I
Mr. IIpRfNDON. It was before Christmas, before the end of the year, in 1940.
Mr. 'TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Herndon, the committee is very much concerned about the situation that may exist where a teacher at the present timie who is subject to the discipline of the Communist Party may be actively engaged in teaching in a school. Now I would like to know from you, from your own experience and from your knowledge of the objectives of the Communist Party and its operation, what you have to say from your own standpoint as to the advisability of a teacher being permitted to teach young students, particularly where the teacher is subject to the directives of the Communist Party and its discipline.
Mr. HEpRtoN. Th1at brings up the question of academic freedom$ and my conception of academic freedom is that a teacher should teach his subject and good citizenship and good character along with it, to the best oi his ability, that he should use his intelligence and teach the truth as far as he can see it, and that his teaching should be in accordance with his conscience. Now, a teacher who is in the Communist Party is not a free agent. No matter how intelligent he may be, when he enters the party he ISee p. 521 for correction; name should be Sidney Welnbaum. 518 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THM 1,01 AN, ELR AIMA agrrees to accept tie direction of the Communist Party as to what he should think, when he should think it, without demlt a1d without a why. He is not it free agent Intellectually, and he is not a free agent morally. I don't see how, realy-I have come to the conclusion that with t practicing Communist I don't see how it can be a question of academic freedom at. all. I think that a teacher who Is at. the present tine, let us sty a practicing Conmntist is a person' who is under the direction of the Conintunist Party to teach not the truth as he sees it, but tile truth as the Comnuuunist Party sees it, as far as possible. 
Mr. ScitrIn, May I intert'upt, Mr. Chairman and counsel?
Mr. Scherer.
Mr. S'ot sn. Professor, from yoir experience, do you feel that a
Mr. ,lAcMSON. person who remains in the Communist Party today, after all that tnfq transpired, should teach In our public schools or anywhere else?
Mr. HWItN-It). 1 don't, know what Ii it male's inid, bilt a )erson who is Considerillf what has happened in the C(omnunnist Iarty-- All'. 80o1.rr. Isay after till that has transpired. I make that qualification. 
Mr. HUtNDoW. I don't see how ho Can stay in).
Mr. S0llm.R.Rs. I think ptrhniips you might ajlree with Lewis Webstor Jones, who is tie president of Rutgers Utiversity. Rutgors lini. varsity is one of the best universities In this country. Unfortunately tile university had to aet within the hlst few molnilis to remove from tile faculty a number of its members. In connection with the removal of those mellbes, the president of Rttgers adeIlia a statement, which has been reduced to pamphlet formn wud which is entitled "Academic Freodom and Civic Rospon4.ibility." In the past the committee has, as you perliaps know, been attacked front various sources by prominent educators onl tile ground that, by investigating pensons who are engaged in Communist activities in the teaching profession we are interfering with academic freedom. it) that connection I think it. would be well, Mr. Chairman, to ask this witnem if lie agrees in the conclusions drawn by 1President Jones of Rut ers. I just have 2 or 3 paragraphs which are along the lines which you have just testified. Tile president says it his statement, first: Tie legil right of tiny citizen to refuse to testify on the grounds of possible self-lncrimination as provided unter the fifth aiendinent is not In dispute, though th legal as well tip the mortl wisdom of exercising it Is open to serious doubt. And then he continues: The Commnunist Party i not a isilitleal party like any other. It is a secret conspiratorial orgnnizatiou Inmosing on Its nmenibers a disellilne anti reginen- tfition of thought quite alien to the normill political parties of i democracy, Its standards of ethics are radically different from the ethical principles on which lit it free society freedoitof thought, freedom of reseaureh nid of teaching are based. The university must isist on tolerance of honestly held and frankly lproclaimed differences of opinion, and its facility must be free to engage In ordinary ol~en political activity, lint it mnst protect Itself and cooperate in protecting the (ittntry against tty consplity whihb, if steessful, would destroy that freedom. It Is unreasonable to deny that there is a real danger of Oommu. nist aubvershon or to dlstism all public concern with Communist activity as hysteria. The public has the right, through its legally constituted representa. ties, to Inquire Into the communist Party membership of Individuals. Public Investigation of the universities iN legitimate anl should be frankly met. It Implies no Invasion of academic freedom. COMMIINIW' ACTIVITIEF. IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 519 14justdon't want to hiboilflip point to miih, but finally h says in another piragraph: It follows thit for thf nieohirm of atiunliverlly fhitilly to give it rational account of their pIomitolIm oil vital commmilty Issmes not oily cannot be defended by tin 1I Nl11alto atelnihde fedot|lo, lut ii tfat exeelit for sctlh academic, free- dom, which Is th only WeipIl of defense we are givenl, the entire aadetmie community must suffer accordingly. Now, from your experience, would vou eone(, ll ite stantllientS ma(le by tihe president of Rutgers Uniiveri with reference to this subject and the subject about which you have just been testifying I
Mr. Hmrmyolm. I took notes as you were reading, and I think I can agree with the president of Rutgers oti all of his points. M. JACKSON. I think in that connection Rultgers is a long way off in point of miles, but within the past few days the heads of the great California institutions, the University of California, Dr. Sproul; the University of California at Los Angeles, Dr. Allen; and tile president of Stanford University up nort h, have all joined in eff&et in the position taken by )r. IAwis Webster Jones, and it is v matter of great sttisfaction to me and to my colleague from Califii,ia, Mr. Do,e)to know that, these university presidents have takLn that poasition with respect to the necessity for finding out where Communists are in their elhools and eXposing them. Ar. CIr.Aiw. [ think it ought to 1)e noted, Mr. C chairman, that while we had some witiesses before us front the faculty of Rutlgers, the president aid the entire school dlininistration cOolerated ,. percent with its and eXlressed satisfaclion with our motive and with the results of our investigation.
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. I should also point out that the same is true also of Ohio State University, Temple University, and Harvard University.
Mr. Scunavitt. Mr. Chairman, may 1 make a farther observation in connection with that statement, particularly with reference to Ohio State University I In the mail this morning I received at newspaper artieh, from the Cincinnati Enquirer concerning Dr. Boris' action with reference to Prof. Byron '. Darling, who testified before this committee in Waslhington just a few weeks ago or as Mr. Clardy stys refused to testify, wich is perhaps more in lille with the truth. And in view of the fact that we are on this subject now and in view of the fact that Profemor Ilevis ha83iust spoken oil that, I believe that what lie said should be at least ill ided in the record at this point, for the benefit of those who are here today at this point. For the benefit of those who are here today, Prof. Byron T. Darlin is an ontstandin r profesor at Ohio State University. He is working oi3 it project or the United States Air Force in aerodynamics at Ohio University, and was receiving, until a few weeks ago, part of his compensation from the Federal Government in conneetion with that project for tile Air Force. lie reftised to answer oil the gromud that it might tend to ineriminate him, whether or not lie was a nIlember of th Communist Party, whether hie )hd(1 ever be)en a member of the Communist Party, or whether he at the present. tme wiasa limber of the Communist Party, or whether liet had any classified information under his colrol at that time of the United Atates Government, tefused4 to answer whether 520 COMMUNIST! ACTIVITIES IN 'rtIM TA ANOtIRLS AIWhA li had vi|ved nny colpelSation froIi the Cointiinist Pfarty, aitni Professor Doyis jut yesterday or ti1 (loy before, lit a eouii itla. tion addressed to Professor Da lug, said tils: Yolle refumik| to hinmwer those qtestlon m' Nm I toorhnut dolht n to your flin'r tot, th pItttion You ort'lillY, I lit InV'nlIi'd nN to yolurinllilty to ahitwor ttil11O rlMnI'(d Aii t your q110hn1ols trultftiily wit ltlht gllf.hr101nfll IlatIoll|i, 11is moril Itilegrity. illitt Is (Onsttllloti s'ollr lovnlty to y)lr V'ollelgitts" ninl tilte itltegrity of the nitilvorsiay Itpo'if. q1hoet Imilmo a satrls lillh, ntlot of groos Itilnuordlnnlon to lite tinlversity polh'y 1I1d of mtldilet clalttrly tiltinulet to tile Ietst iltlsems of Mlo ntvelrslly, There is (lite i bit inoro, but. ilty lind refereew Ito flip tirilrilt, of fitle tet illony tnken at. lint. beritg and )r. lIWxiN fItrth, sill tint lie hau t4ttldtitu hi trtllisetiri of fto i,4flilloity of )r. Darling before the ITli-Anmrival Attvi 6ies ( 1oIiIttlt 14', Itd sli1 fot' 11i8 reason he wisled to Infol'llt 1Im11 of therounds upolln wih Ile luighlt ind It neltiry to I'etniOVO hint front file llttver'sity II(1 aIIl 11111i to pIosent, ihittself for it tearing. Atil. J,\CvtN, cotillsll, just a iiioilieit. recognition. M'. Doylo is seelilg 
Mr. Doyi.n. Pi'ofssor Herlnldoi, i 11Ilnlltt igo -allI you Coiict. lite if I niait -'ror-did I understand ,U to elythnt it teacher in your juldglntt should talleh at subject ACCorldilig to his owl) conit;eienoi and teacl tile truth You so stated? 
Mr. Jtnmtx)o. Yes, sir.
Mr. )ov, . You also stated lint it teachetit ti Comuiniiist Party membership was not a free agent, ihlellectually or morally.
Mr. Il.RmfovO. Yes. 
Mr. DotR Now, if tlint is your conviction, wily is not a CoI1iii1nist Party nenber whoialppens to be a teseller or it (to field of education, why isn't he a free agent intellectually or morally? Do you understand iy quvstionf "Vtly isn't lie free What difference does it make whether he Is a Communist Party member or not?
Mr. IaIoxNoN. 'rite Conntnist Party member takes his opinions from tile Communist Party leadership.' They are not his own opinions. They are the Communist Party opinions, and tite Coitlutnists have an opinion on almost every subject under the sun,.
Mr. DoYt* Do you mean then to tell me that the high-school boys and girls in my native State of California, when they are being taught by a man like you when yot were a member of tle Comninlst Party, are n taught by a man who is not free to teach the truth?
Mr. Hxno. . it depends upon how manil- opportunities tile teacher has to put forth thle Communist line. Naturally, some teachers in certain subjects and on ceirain levels would have many more opportunities than other teachers.
Mr. Doxrm. Well, we grant that, but is a member of tile Communist Party, who happens to teach in the California ubhie schools, in your judgment taking the opportunity to teach tile ommunist line as far as he can? Is flint his obligation?
Mr. HErfDmo. The obligation is to take opportunities to teach the Communist Party line as fir as lie can without destroying his usefulness and exposing himself too obviously.
Mr. Dom& In that case, then, he is absolutely prostituting the truth, isn't he?
Mr. HR.m)oN. Yes, he is. COMMtiNiWM A(,i'IVITIEI4 IN TUP, LON AN(iEL9 AIZPA 521 -Mr, Doyt,%, And that sort of thing has been going on in other Californlia high msJool, , in your judgment, at least w11l(e you were iII the (COnllinist ]lrt11 , iecatlso you have given u10 other names IIndlditioil to your own 
Mr. 1lmFRNIN. It was I but while it Ima serious danger, I think the Importance, if you don t exalggeratel it--ta I Hity, thero were as of the time I was in the party about 7W() teachers in Glendale where I come from, and Ido not kniow of my o)wn knowledge, I do not, know secondh-lian( or third-hand or by the wildest hearsay of any other Communist that there over imor has been at Glendale. So that while it, is potentially dangerousMr. l)ori,. Well, isn't it potentially dangerous if there is just onel 
Mr. IIatimx'. It is.
Mr. Dovx. In our public schools teaching our children and youth, isn't one too many f 
Mr. HPANovoN. One is too many. 
Mr. JTACKsoN. It is the intention of recalling the witness after lunch. Would it be satisfactory to you to take the lunch recess now?
Mr. lDoyt. Yem. I have some more questions of this witness afterr lunch. 
Mr. JAcxsox. The committee will stand in recess until 2 p. m. (Thereupon, at 12: 00 p. m., the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at 2 p. m., same day.) AnZIMN O SION (At lie lour of '2:05 p. m., of the same day, t he proCe(,dings were relmu(, with(lie slwommiittee p)r(,sent,o Coml)OS'd o Rel)resentatives Kit Clardy chairmann) and Oordon H. Scorerr)
Mr. CLARDY. The committee will be inorder.
Mr. 'rTAvI:NNI11. Mr. Herndon, will you return to the stand, please? TESTIMONY OF LE ROY TRAVERS NERNDON, IR.-Resumed 