Mr. KOENIG. Lester Koenig, K-o-e-n-i-g.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Koenig? 
Mr. KOENIG. I was born in New York City, December 3, 1917.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside ?
Mr. KOENIG. In Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Los Angeles?
Mr. KOENIG. Thirteen years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you lived here continuously during that peri- od of time other than temporary trips ?
Mr. KOENIG. Well, with the exception of some temporary trips overseas during the war; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you in the armed services ?
Mr. KOENIG. Three years, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the period of time ? What was the year when you went into the service and the year of your discharge?
Mr. KOENIG. October 1942 through December or November 1945, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee briefly what your education has been.
Mr. KOENIG. I was educated in the public schools of New York City; I went to the Horace Mann School for-Boys, which is a prep school in New York City; and I graduated with a degree of bachelor of arts from Dartmouth College in 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation or profession?
Mr. KOENIG. I am under contract as a writer and/or associate producer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you mean screen writer? 
Mr. KOENIG. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by associate producer?
Mr. KOENIG. Associate producer of motion pictures, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in that type of work ?
Mr. KOENIG. I signed that contract just about the time of my dis- charge from the armed services, sir, in 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a screen writer what are the principal screen credits you have received ?
Mr. KOENIG. Actually my name doesn't appear on the picture because the Army didn't have the policy of crediting its writers, but it is listed in the record books that I wrote a film called The Memphis Belle, of which I am very proud. 1806 
Mr. TAVENNER. During the time you were in the service, then, you were engaged in moving-picture production? MIr. KOEINI(G. Yes, sir. For the Army Air Forces.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any other pictures during that period of time when you were in the service which you produced?
Mr. KOENI(. I made numerous films for the Army Air Forces and another fihn which was released to the general public was called Thun- derbolt, the story of the P-47 fighter bombers in Corsica, Italy, during the Italian campaign of 1944. S r. TAV-ENER. What are your duties as assistant producer?
Mr. KOEIG.. Associate producer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Associate producer, excuse me.
Mr. KorNI. Well. my duties are very, very numerous and hard to define. They pertain to all the phases of making a motion picture from start to finish. In other words, I am assistant or associate to a producer and as such I must concern myself with whatever problems he has, and whatever he tells me to handle, whatever chores come up, whatever situations arise during the making of the picture, and I assure you they can be very many and unexpected.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I assume your position is equivalent to that of the top executive of a production concern.
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, if you have an assistant I would say your relationship to your assistant would be the relationship that I would have to a producer. He would assist you in various matters.
Mr. TAVENNER. I assure you that is very important.
Mr. KOENIG. Yes, sir. I am not denying that it can be important, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of the performance of your duties did you hire or discharge individuals in connection with the productions you were interested in?
Mr. KOENIG. No, sir. That was not my function, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you required to pass upon contracts with writers?
Mr. KOENIG. No, sir. We have a legal department-Mr. TAVENNER. What are some of the duties that you perform?
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, a picture starts in many ways. Some one has an idea that it might be good to make a film about a certain subject, or someone presents a book to the studio, or a play, or writers who are on the staff at the studio come up with something which the front office thinks might make a good film. One can't say exactly how it happens, but one day you find you are assigned, by a mutual agreement with the front office of your studio, to work on a certain picture. Then you consult with writers as to the preparation of the script.
Mr. TAVENNER. Aren't you in the front office yourself ?
Mr. KOENIG. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. 
Mr. KOENIG. Then you advise and counsel with the writers and with the director and you work with the casting office in the casting of the picture, and they bring people to you and you perhaps may think of some people that might be good to play the various roles. You work with the art department in the construction of the sets, and you work with the production office in planning the production, work with them in procuring the services of cameramen and technical per-  1807 sonnel such as may be needed. You work on the preparation of budgets of films in an effort to keep the costs down and with the film as it goes on the floor of the stages to be shot, and you have numerous duties in connection with that to see that the production rolls smoothly from a technical point of view. Then the film is finally shot and you participate to a certain degree in the editing of the film in collaboration, of course, with your producer, the director, your editors and so forth and so on, which would include the various executives of the studio who are concerned with the editing of the film. Then, of course, it is taken away from you and shipped to New York and that is the last you see of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily People's World of January 21, 1941, at page 5, carried a news item to the effect that Les Koenig, L-e-s is the way it appears there, had been elected to the board of the Hollywood chapter of the League of American Writers. ferred to there the same person as yourself ? Is the "Les Koenig" re- 
Mr. KOENIG. May I see the 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, I have used or been known as Les Koenig, which is a diminutive of Lester. In regard to the question which you have asked me about the organization named, in view of the fact that it has been listed as a subversive organization. I shall have, and do decline, to answer the question, claiming my privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily Worker of April 5, 1941, at page 7, car- ries an article entitled "In Defense of Culture." This article is a call to the Fourth Congress of the League of American Writers. Among the signers of this call appears the name of Lester Koenig. Will you examine the article, please, and state whether or not you signed the call for the Fourth Congress of the League of American Writers?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you participate in any of the American Writer Congress sessions at any time, any of the sessions of the American Writers Congress?
Mr. KOENIG. Is that the organizationMr. TAVENNER. The same organization I have been asking you about.
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer on the same grounds, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with the development of the American Writers' Congress, that is the various congresses which were called in the United States ?
Mr. KOENIG. Would counsel please refresh my recollection?
Mr. TAVENNER. The call to the First American Writers' Congress was issued in 1935- 
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, at that time I was not a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. And there was a suggestion that there be formed a League of American Writers and the organization to be formed was to be affiliated with the International Union of Revolutionary Writers. In other words, the League of American Writers was affiliated from its very inception with the International Union of Revolutionary Writers. Now, among those who signed this call, that is for the first group, were such well-known Communists as Earl Browder, Theodore Dreiser, Joseph Freeman, Michael Gold rlhrence Hathaway. Joseph 1808  North, M. G. Olgin, Isadore Schneider, Alexander Trachtenberg, Ella Winter, and Richard Wright. The first chairman-I am doing this to refresh your recollection- 
Mr. KOENIG. Sir, I think you've identified the organization sufficiently for me.
Mr. TAVENNER. The first chairman was Waldo Frank. At the third congress held in 1939 the name of Waldo Frank was absent in the record of all the proceedings. Waldo Frank had committed the unpardonable sin of doubting the wisdom of the Soviet Union. He had written a letter to the New Republic suggesting an international labor and social socialist inquiry into the Moscow purge trials. Do you have any knowledge of your own that you may have acquired regarding Waldo Frank's purge from the League of American Writers because of his desire to look into and investigate the Moscow purge trials?
Mr. KOENIG. In view of the fact that the question implies, or would imply, knowledge of that organization, and since I have already declined to answer questions about my possible connection with that organization, I do decline to answer under the protection of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you familiar with a magazine by the name of the Clipper, which was published under the auspices of the Hollywood Chapter of the League of American Writers ?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is is not a fact that you were a member of the editorial board of that magazine?
Mr. KOENIG. Decline to answer on the same grounds, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever affiliated with the Committee for the First Amendment?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer on the same grounds, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to show you a statement issued by the Committee for the First Amendment appearing in the People's Daily World of October 29, 1947, and at page 3, wherein the signers say they are "disgusted and outraged by the continued attempt of the House Committee on Un-American Activities to smear the motion-picture industry." You will note there that your name appears as a signer of this statement. Will you identify the fact that the name Lester Koenig appears there?
Mr. KEONIG. Yes, sir; it does so appear.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well. did you sign that statement?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS it not a fact that in your knowledge that that action was taken by the Committee of the First Amendment in part, at least. for the reason that by the criticism you leveled at this committee, that that criticism might tend to in some way delay or maybe prevent entirely the disclosure to the public of persons who were mem- bers of it and who were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of this hearing, Mr. Martin Berkeley has appeared as a witness and has testified regarding certain  1809 fraction meetings. You understand the meaning of fraction meetings, do you not ?
Mr. KOENIo. Well, sir, I have been under subpena here since Wednesday and I have heard it described and defined in this committee room.
Mr. TAVENNER. By "fraction meetings" is meant meetings of members of the Communist Party who were members, say, of an organization like the Screen Writers' Guild or any other organization known as a Communist front, and in the course of his description of these fraction meetings, Mr. Berkeley testified that Lester Koenig, who is now an associate producer, attended those meetings with him as a member of the Communist Party. Now, was Mr. Berkeley telling this committee the truth about that matter?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds. However, I will say that I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are not a member now?
Mr. KOENIG. I am not a member of the Communist Party, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, that means now, doesn't it?
Mr. KOENIG. That means today I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Today? What about yesterday?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What will it be tomorrow?
Mr. KOENIG. I have no intention of joining the Communist Party tomorrow, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any other business or occupation besides that of being a moving-picture producer?
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, I have certain investments and certain outside interests; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are they related to the moving-picture industry ?
Mr. KOENIG. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or the radio or entertainment field?
Mr. KOENIG. In general, in the entertainment field; yes, sir. I have been in show business for a long time. Most of my interests are in show business.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then as we are investigating the extent of Communists activities in the entertainment field, of whichMr. KOENIG. I concede your right to ask the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Motion pictures is only a part, I will ask youMr. KOENIG. I have no objection to answering any questions, sir, about that. I have a record company and I make jazz records, and my leading artists are the Firehouse Five Plus Two, a very red organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will have to ask you to repeat that.
Mr. KOENIG. I say, I have a record-phonograph record company, sir, and my leading artists are the Firehouse Five Plus Two, a very red organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I will have to take your word for it. I am not acquainted with them.
Mr. KOENIG. It is quite apparent that you have seen them, sir. 1810  
Mr. TAVENNER. I thought just the contrary. I don't think I have. Now, what do you mean by that?
Mr. KOENIO. Well, sir, they wear fire uniforms, and the color of fire uniforms are red. There are no political implications intended, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I was anxious to know whether you were serious or not. 
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, it is a rather humorous enterprise on my part and I have a lot of fun with it, and it is hard for me to take it seriously. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That probably displays my ignorance of some of the- recent moving pictures. 
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, if you were dancing the Charleston you would probablyMr. TAVENNER. YOU said it was jazz, I believe.
Mr. KOENIG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am a little too old for that. I would like to ask you more about your statement that you are not now a member of the Communist Party when you will not tell the committee as to what you were yesterday. Have you changed in your views and in your loyalties in any manner since yesterday?
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer the question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly you have heard some witnesses testify that when men were called into the armed, services during the war that the Communist Party considered they were not members of the Com- munist Party during the period of their service. Has the Communist Party in Los Angeles adopted any such a view regarding the appearances of witnesses here? Has that anything to do with your statement?
Mr. KOENIG. No, sir; it has not anything to do with my statement, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, will you tell the committee why it is you are not a member of the Communist Party today.
Mr. KOENIG. I am not a member of the Comunist Party because I am not in sympathy with the aims or the objectives of the Communist Party, sir, as I understand them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I am very glad to hear you say that, but I am anxious to know whether you agreed with their aims and purposes yesterday.
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, I have already declined to answer that ques- tion in another form.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, is this matter of membership in the Communist Party a thing like a cloak that can be worn today and cast aside tomorrow ? 
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, I have sat here and listened to various tes- timonies on that, and I am not so sure that can be taken on and off like a cloak, sir; no, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Having seen the witnesses that appeared here, I can understand why you no longer care to be affiliated with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle ?
Mr. DOYLE. I noticed, Mr. Koenig, almost your last answer was- and I wrote it down. I think I have it exact: "I am not in sympathy with the aims of the Communist Party as I understand them." What aims of the Communist Party-can you help us-that you are not in sympathy with ?  INDUSTRY 1811 
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, I don't know that I can help any in-Mr. DOYLE. Because we are making a studyMr. KOENIG. But to explain-I imagine you want me to elucidate on the statement I made to Mr. Tavenner as to my understanding of the aims ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, please.
Mr. KOENIG. Of the Communist Party today.
Mr. DOYLE. Please.
Mr. KOENIG. Well, as I understand the aims of the Communist Party, they would in some way, shape, or form institute a form of government in the United States which would, I believe, abridge the rights of citizens to freedom of speech, freedom of worship, freedom of conscience, freedom of belief and opinion, and I might add that I don't believe that those rights are light rights. They are very heavy, and the very basic foundation of our democracy depends on them, and in any way that any party or organization might tend to abridge those rights by the institution of any form of government, I would be opposed to that form of government.
Mr. DOYLE. That perhaps leads me to this question. I thank you for helping me to understand your answer partially. I know, because you have said you have been here several days and I have noticed you too, in the audience-I made up my mind that you were a very prosperous man, and I judge from your testimony that you are. Can you help us, then-if you are not in sympathy with the Communist aims and objectives, can you help us, as a committee of your Congress, with any suggestion you may have of how we can help fulfill our assignment by Congress, which is to investigate subversive programs ? I wish to assure you that we are not intending to take the time of anyone, of ourselves, either, in the field of looking into people that might be termed-oh, small fry or incidental Communists, but major leaders. What recommendation have you, sir, for us, as to how we might really be more effective, if you think we could, in the field of getting at subversive people and subversive programs? In other words, those that would knowingly engage in the revolution or engage in taking away our freedoms of worship and thought and speech which you have just spoken of ? Is there anything you have to recommend that we can do, because the law under which we function says that we shall recommend to Congress.
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, I have no recommendations.
Mr. DOYLE. May I just make this statement and then I am through. You see, your own case-may I illustrate by your own case-is a sort of a closed door, and you have seen four or five or six other men and women who we know at one time to be Communists, and they have taken the very tack that you have taken, sir. You have said, "I am not a Communist today." Well, that leaves inferentially, at least, the proposition that you may be tomorrow or may have been yesterday or a week ago. How can we get at that problem ? Now, here you come and you claim the fifth amendment. We don't criticize you for doing it. Thank God, under our Constitution, you have the. right, but what can we do within the framework of our Constitution, because we must follow that framework and stay within that, vigorously, sir. This committee is not interested in anything but staying within our own Constitution, I assure you, but what can this S.9--51-pt. 5---12 1812  committee do to meet the very problem that has been presented and you have heard it presented in these 4 or 5 days, and the very problem you present? We only see you a few minutes, you see, and you come and you say, "I am not a Communist today. I claim the fifth amend- ment," when we ask you if you were yesterday, and so you close the door in our faces. We can't get any help from you as to how the Communist Party has been operating in California from your own experience, assuming that we know that at one time you were a Communist. Don't you see the problem? 'How can we do that ? How can we get, for instance, your cooperation, and successful men like you whom we have been informed were at one time a Communist and we believe, without limitation, that at one time you were? Now, you come and say, "I am not today." How can we, within the framework of the Constitution, get your cooperation so that you will tell us what, if in any way, the Communist Party is subversive, enough so that you, shall I say, got out of it, again, believing as we do, that you were a Communist? In other words, you got out of it, shall we say. Why did you get out of it, a successful, prosperous man ? You may not have been when you went into it, but you certainly are now, sir. You are out of sympathy with it, yet we can't get your help because you, sir-and I say it with all respect to you-you, sir, are following exactly the line, when it comes to the fifth amendment, that we know is followed by almost all the present Communists because you must know, sir, that when we ask you if you are a Communist, almost always we know the answer before we ask you. You realize that: of course you do, because we have very able investigators, former FBI men, former Secret Service men. Some 99 out of 100 of the gentlemen who sit in the chair where you are and tell us that "We are not today" or "I refuse to answer," we know what the answer is before we ask it, but we would like to get the picture of subversive people and subversive programs that are designed to undermine our form of government. Now. that is all. We are not interested in trying to put you in a position where you have a sense of fear or compulsion. Can you help us in that? How shall we get at that problem, specifically ?
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, I have no recommendations to make.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, will you think it over?
Mr. KOENIG. Sir, I have thought a great deal about this problem. 
Mr. DOYkE. Well, I can tell you have. I can sense that, sir. 
Mr. KOENIG. And I am sorry, sir, that I have no recommendation to offer you.
Mr. DOYLE. May I say this to you: I don't think you are through I don't think you are through.
Mr. KOENIG. I don't understand you, sir. thinking it over. 
Mr. DoYLr. I mean that I believe you when you say you have no sympathy with Communist objectives. I am ready to believe you, and, believing you as I do on that, I don't think you are through. I think you are going to come clean some day before long and say, "Gentlemen of Congess, here, let me help you."
Mr. WALTER. Any questions, Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. Mr. Koenig, what was your rank on discharge from the Army ?
Mr. KOENIG. Master sergeant.  INDUSTRY 1813 
Mr. JACKSON. Where are you presently employed, Mr. Koenig? 
Mr. KOENIG. Paramount Pictures. 
Mr. JACKSON. Did you discuss the matter of your appearance before this committee with your employers?
Mr. KOENIG. No, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Have you any questions, Mr. Potter?
Mr. POTTER. Yes, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. Koenig, do you contend that the Communist Party of the United States is part of the international Communist conspiracy ?
Mr. KOENTG. I don't know the answer to that question, sir.
Mr. POTTER. Well, to refresh your memory, I wish to take the time of the committee, Mr. Chairman, to refer you to a manual which was written by J. Peters, a manual that is entitled "The Communist Party-A Manual on Organization." Now, we have had testimony before our committee that this manual of the Communist Party serves as the Communist Party members' bible and it is used extensively as a pamphlet, a publication for the indoctrination of new members. Now, under a paragraph entitled "What Are the Conditions for Membership in the Communist Party," I wish to read you this paragraph: The conditions for membership in our party are contained in the following pledge read by Comrade Browder to 2,000 workers who were initiated into the party .in the New York district in 1935. I quote the pledge that these 2,000 workers took: I now take my place in the ranks of the Communist Party. the party of the working class. I take this solemn oath to give the best that is in me to the service of my class. I pledge myself to spare no effort in uniting the workers in militant struggle against fascism and war. I pledge myself to work unsparingly in the unions, in the shops, among the unemployed, to lead the struggles for the daily needs of the masses. I solemnly pledge to take my place in the forefront of the struggle for Negro rights; I pledge myself to rally the masses to defend the Soviet Union, the land of victorious socialism. I pledge myself to remain at all times a vigilant and firm defender of the Leninist line of the party, the only line that insures the triumph of Soviet power in the United States. 
Mr. Koenig, this is from the Communist Party's own manual, the Communist Party of the United States, and you, sitting in the witness chair, refuse to aid us to throw any light on a conspiracy that is dedicated to the what-to defend the Soviet Union. Your idea of citizenship is much different than mine.
Mr. KOENIG. Mr. Chairman, in regard to the question of Congressman Jackson, he said that I discussed this with my employers and I said, "No." I want to be absolutely sure that I have made my answer clear. I did not discuss this with anybody in the studio. The man to whom I report immediately-that is, the man who is supervisor in my work-was away, and I did inform his attorney, because I felt that that should be the case, and I just wanted to make the record clear for you, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Any further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman and Congressman Potter, the manual that you have spoken of was introduced in evidence before this committee as one of the first documents, I think, that the committee introduced, probably as early as 1938. The document is probably out of print long since. I think it would be well to introduce that document in evidence, particularly inasmuch as it has been referred 1814 to quite a number of times during the course of the hearings. I offer it in evidence and ask that it be marked "Koenig Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. WALTER. I notice some of the other papers were marked ex- hibits. Do you intend to offer them?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. All right, mark it and let it be received as an exhibit. (The instrument in question was marked "Koenig Exhibit No. 1.") 
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask my distinguished colleague, Mr. Potter from Michigan, whether or not in that manual, with which he is so familiar, there is any pledge of allegiance to the United States ?
Mr. POTTER. None whatsoever. None whatsoever.
Mr. WALTER. Any further questions ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. With further reference to this document, this is a document prepared by a person known. as Alexander Stevens, and also known as J. Peters. He was identified by Whittaker Chambers as an agent of the Soviet Union and has been deported. But the committee has information that Alexander Stevens, known also as J. Peters, came to Hollywood in connection with Communist Party affairs here, particularly in connection with the raising of funds. I would like to ask this witness if at any time he r ,t J. Peters.
Mr. KOENIG. I decline to answer the question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Koenig, what contributions have you made to any alleged charitable work in recent years?
Mr. KOENIG. Alleged charitable work, sir, or charitable?
Mr. WALTER. I said alleged advisedly, because after all if you refuse to answer the question as to whether or not you made any contributions to Mr. Peters' activity then I think I am justified in saying alleged, because Mr. Peters was only interested in milking the cows of Hollywood.
Mr. KOENIG. Yes, sir. I would be glad to tell you of any contribu- tions I have made to charitable organizations.
Mr. WALTER. Let's hear about contributions that you have made to any cause. 
Mr. KOENIG. The motion-picture industry, I am very proud to say, has one fund which covers a great many charitable organizations, the Community Chest and various-I guess 62 legitimate organizations. which have been carefully investigated.
Mr. WALTER. And youMr. KOENIG. I am very happy to say that I have authorized a pay- roll deduction from my check which is given to that organization weekly.
Mr. WALTER. You are very proud of the fact that you have contri- buted to that?
Mr. KOENIG. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then why do you refuse to answer the question. about contributions to Mr. J. Peters?
Mr. KOENIG. Sir, the question would obviously involve me with an organization of which I have1 See appendix printed in separate volume.  1815 
Mr. WALTER. Why would it obviously involve you ?
Mr. KOENIG. Well, sir, as I understood the question, counsel said that the contributions were for the Communist Party and I have declined to answer questions regarding any possible or alleged affiliation or connection with that organization, sir. So I must decline to answer your question.
Mr. WAITER. All right, thank you. Anything further Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. WALTER. The witness may be excused. Who is your next witness, or do you have anything further today ?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir. 
Mr. WALTER. Another witness that I believe you were going to call is ill?
Mr. TAVENNER. I received a report from counsel that he was not well enough to appear today but it was expected that he would be tomorrow. I agreed for his appearance tomorrow, subject to your approval.
Mr. WALTER. Oh, yes. If the witness is not well, why, of course, we don't want him to be here. Then the meeting will stand adjourned until 10 in the morning. (Whereupon, at the hour of 4:30 p. m., an adjournment was taken in the above hearings until the hpur of 10 a. m., of the following day, Tuesday, September 25, 1951.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 5 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE, COMMITTEE OF UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. PUBLIC HEARINGS The subcommittee -of the Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10:10 a. m. in room 518, Federal Building, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. Francis E. Walter (chairman), presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Francis E. Walter (chairman), Clyde Doyle Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, investigator; and John W. Carrington, clerk.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will come to order.
Mr. Tavenner, who is your first witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. George Beck.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Beck, will you raise your right hand? Do you swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BECK. I do. TESTIMONY OF GEORGE BECK 