Mr. ELIAS. My name is Lewis J. Elias.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell your first name?
Mr. ELIAs. The first name is L-e-w-i-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Elias, it is the practice of the committee to advise all witnesses that they have the right to have counsel present with them if they so desire, and the right to consult with counsel at any time during the course of their testimony.
Mr. ELIAS. I understand, sir. I have thought it over in my own mind, and I don't feel that I have need for counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. By that, do you mean that you propose to tell the committee all that you know regarding Communist Party activities?
Mr. ELIAs. I propose to tell the truth as far as I can remember it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession? 
Mr. ELIAS. I am a musician, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you reside in Los Angeles? 
Mr. ELIAs. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNES. When and where were you born?
Mr. ELIAS. I was born in 1922 in Boston, Mass.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you move to California?
Mr. ELIAS. I was 2 years old when I came here.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3871 
Mr. ELIAS. I graduated from high school here.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged professionally as a musician ?
Mr. ELIAS. I would say I possibly started professionally when I was about 15 years old.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has your employment in that field been confined to the area of Los Angeles?
Mr. ELIAS. Only until the last about 7 years. Since that time I have done some traveling outside of Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time during the practice of your profession as a musician ?
Mr. ELIAS. That would be very approximate, sir. I can't remember the exact dates. Probably about the middle of 1946 to the end of 1947. I don't think I was in 1948. If I was I might have attended a very few meetings, but I doubt it.
Mr. TAVENNEE. So your membership was confined to that period?
Mr. ELIa. That is right, sir, as far as approximate is concerned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly the circumstances under which you became a member ?
Mr. ELIAs. When I got out of the Army I started working in the motion picture studios.
Mr. TAVENNER. During what period were you serving in the Armed Forces?
Mr. ELIAS. It was 3Y2 years. Do you want to know the exact years?
Mr. TAVENNER. About when did you return from the service ?
Mr. ELIAs. 1945, I think; about June.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. Proceed, please.
Mr. ELIAS. Working at that time fairly extensively in the motionpicture studios, I was struck that there was a certain economic crisis in the musicians' affairs. There were many reasons for that, but it was very obvious to me. I saw many older musicians, very well respected, who had difficulty finding jobs. It was sort of a goal of mine, a very strong goal, to try to improve that in any way possible. There was an organization called the Union Activities Committee. I understood the purposes of that organization were to devise ways of improving the economic situation of musicians in any way possible. When I heard about it, it had a great appeal to me, and I felt that I should join that organization. I attended all their meetings. I was very sincere in the objectives of that organization. Around the middle of 1946 I was at a friend's house, and we had quite a long conversation. The gist of it was his recognition of my desires to help the music situation, to help other musicians, and also to help myself in that same respect. He informed me that the people who were doing this kind of work to help musicians were Communists, that they knew how to help the musicians, and they seemed to be the only people who cared about helping the musicians. There was quite a long conversation, but that was the major point.
Mr. MOULDER. Did you name this person ?
Mr. ELIAS. His name was Edgar Lustgarten.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell that name, please, sir. 3872 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. ELIAS. L-u-s-t-g-a-r-t-e-n. He felt because of my beliefs in that matter that I should join the musicians branch of the Communist Party to further that. I remember quite vividly that conversation. I remember what I said, that I couldn't join the Communist Party because I knew about communism, I didn't believe in it, and I could never be a Communist. But he informed me that that really had no bearing. If I really wanted to accomplish what I felt-this was the only way to do it. In the end his argument swayed me, and I was swayed to that. His argument swayed me, and I said I would join.
Mr. MOULDER. Was he, too, a musician?
Mr. EIAS. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say he told you, in order to persuade you to get into the Communist Party, that it didn't make any difference whether or not you were a dedicated Communist?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you were in the Communist Party, did you find any effort was being made to make a dedicated Communist out of you?
Mr. ELIAS. Eventually, yes. May I go into that when I discuss something else? Is that all right?
Mr. TAVENNER. Quite all right.
Mr. ELIAS. I found out in the very first meeting that they were trying to make a mass party out of the Communist Party, trying to recruit as many people as possible. And the expression "working on people" was bandied around quite a bit at that first meeting. So in the very begining there was not too much bearing on actual communism, but on trying to get as many people as possible into the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time that you entered this group of the Communist Party, how many persons in your group do you think were actively engaged in the work of the Communist Party.
Mr. ELIAS. That is a difficult question to answer because there were various numbers at the meetings. I could estimate there were about 50, but that is just an estimation. I never saw that many in one particular group.
Mr. TAVENNER. WVhat was the average attendance at the meetings you attended?
Mr. ELIAS. It could have been about 25 people.
Mr. TAVENNER. But not always the same people?
Mr. ELIAS. No: that is true. Sometimes there were less. And as time went on it got to be a great deal less; maybe just 10 people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what activities you observed in the Communist Party after you became a member of it. What work were they principally engaged in at that time in 1946 and 1947?
Mr. ELIAS. There comes to me one specific thing. That was in the period of the studio strike and theMr. TAVENNER. Was that the Conference of Studio Unions? Is that the strike to which you are referring?
Mr. ELIAS. That was one union against the International Alliance of Stage Employees (IATSE). COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3873 I recall that the Communist Party was fully in back of the Conference of Studio Unions at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you know that?
Mr. ELIAS. Probably about twice when I was there, an outside member of the Communist Party-by that I mean someone not a musician, but a man who was active in the strike, and a member of the Communist Party came to the musicians branch and lectured and discussed this strike, and asked the musicians to support the accomplishments of studio unions in every way possible. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENKER. Who was that individual?
Mr. ELIAS. His name was Paul Perlin.
Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Perlin?
Mr. ELIAS. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Perlin was subpenaed before this committee about 2 years ago here in Los Angeles, and he refused to answer any material questions, relying upon the fifth amendment as the reason for refusal. Was the Conference of Studio Unions under the leadership of Herbert Sorrell?
Mr. ELIAS. Yes. That is what I recall, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you find when you joined this group of the Communist Party, the musicians branch, that there were other persons who had'worked With you in the Union Activities Committee ?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. And who were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were those individuals?
Mr. ELIAS. I am trying to remember as best I can. I remember at the beginning Mischa Altman was active in that. Jack Pepper, Seymour Sheklow, Jean Musick.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that last name ?
Mr. ErLs. Jean Musick.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it?
Mr. ELIAs. I believe it is M-u-s-i-c-k. Rubin Decker, Sam Fordis. There were others, but I can't specifically remember if they were in that group or not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Suppose at this time you give us the names of all the persons that you can recall who were members of the musicians branch in addition to those you just named.
Mr. ELIAS. Outside of what I named, Henry Roth and his wife, George Sandell and his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know the first names of the wives of the two persons you mentioned ?
Mr. ELIAS. It was Esther Roth and Beatrice Sandell. Victor Gottlieb.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it?
Mr. ELIAS. G-o-t-t-l-i-e-b. And his wife, Eudice Shapiro. Manuel Compinsky, C-o-m-p-i-n-s-k-y, and his wife Dorothy. George Kast, Sidney Greene, Rubin Decker, Sam Fordis, Seymour Sheklow, Tamara, T-a-m-a-r-a Hovey, H-o-v-e-y. Sam Albert, Joe Pass, Wayne Ronka, Anita Short, Joe Eger, E-g-e-r. Joseph DiFiore, D-i-F-i-o-r-e. 3874 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Louis Kievman, K-i-e-v-m-a-n. Jean Musick-that is one I already mentioned. Leonard Selic, S-e-l-i-c. Don Christlieb and his wife, Pearl. Cyril Towbin, Herbert Offner, Kalman Bloch and his wife. I don't know her name. Larry Goldman I saw one or two times. Betty Sugar, Morris Browda, B-r-o-w-d-a. I believe the first name is Milton, Kestenbaum. Lydia Marcus, Paul Powell, Alex Walden. And just before I left the party I saw Philip Goldberg, Morris Boltuch, B-o-l-t-u-c-h.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you say you saw them what do you mean?
Mr. ELAs. I mean at party meetings.
Mr. JACKSON. Closed Communist Party meetings?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct, sir. There was another person that I saw once, but I must say the reason he was there is because he left the party and he came there to give his reasons for leaving. His name was Milton Feler, F-e-h-e-r. I saw Paul-No, I am not sure of his first name. His last name is Dessau; something like that. D-e-s-s-a-u. He is now in East Berlin. He is a composer.
Mr. TAVENNER. In East Berlin ?
Mr. ELIAS. As a composer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, we understand that he has renounced his American citizenship.
Mr. ELLAS. There might be some other people, but I can't recall them right now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are all of these individuals whom you have mentioned persons known by you to be members of the Communist Party, or to have been members of the Communist Party?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct. Some of them attended very irregularly. I am not discussing anything about what they did or anything, but I have seen them in the closed meetings.
Mr. SCHERER. What was the name of the person identified by the witness who has since renounced his American citizenship ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Paul Dessau, D-e-s-s-a-u, now in the Eastern Zone of Germany.
Mr. SCHERER. He is at least being forthright.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know whether any of the individuals you named have left the party subsequently or are no longer members of the Communist Party?
Mr. ELIAS. There is really no way of my knowing that, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. I thought perhaps you might have known some of them on a personal basis and that you have seen them since.
Mr. ELIAS. In my own case, when I left the party I made a definite attempt to actually try to forget my past association, and I have been out of town quite a lot, which was very good for me in that respect. I haven't associated with these people too much.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period of time that you were in the Communist Party did you learn whether it was interested in trying to capture any of the positions of leadership in your union?
Mr. ELIAS. It was definitely against the administration, and it would liked to have either some of its own people in office, but probably, preferably, to have other people whom they felt would be friendly. I didn't see that ever happen. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3875 
Mr. TAVENNER. You say then that it was not successful insofar as gaining any control over your local union was concerned?
Mr. ELIAS. I know of no officer of the union who was a member or even close to it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You said you were in the Communist Party up until during the year 1947.
Mr. ELIAS. Approximately, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why did you leave the Communist Party?
Mr. ELIAS. Well, many things. One of the most oppressive things that I have ever gone through in my life was in the Communist Party. There was complete thought control in that party. When I first became a member everything that I knew from before seemed to just be taken away from me. The heritage of freedom of thought, in my opinion, is the most glorious thing about this country, and I certainly, up to that time and since that time, have used that very appreciatively. But I found in the Communist Party that there was only one goal or, rather, one action, and you had to follow that action. If you didn't you were either a Fascist or a Trotskyite or just plain stupid. It was something I couldn't live with at all because I like to express my thoughts, and I like to hear all various opinions on every subject. I think there is also something that is of great import to me that is dangerous. There is blind obedience to the dictates of a magazine called the Political Affairs, I believe, that comes out about once a month. I don't know if it does now or not. But that comes from the headquarters of the Communist Party. I never heard any criticism of any of the articles in that magazine. And it seemed to be the duty of the Communist to accomplish the ends which this magazine wanted done. The writings of that magazine were not only from American Communists but they were from other countries-China and so on. It was very evident to me from when I first joined the Communist Party that there was really no respect at all for the individual, not only outside of the party but inside of the party. This, too, is one of the most important things in our American democracy, individual freedom and protection of other people. There was also a personal thing I resented very much. I might say this: I am primarily interested in music and the entertainment industry. So I was interested in reading what the party had to say about books, motion pictures, and so on. And I found that the criticism would be on an ideological basis. I never went for that. I used my own opinion, and sometimes I would mention to somebody else I liked a certain motion picture, and they would say no, and they will give me the same story that I just read in one of the Communist organs. There was tremendous scorn of liberal people, and a contempt for reformers, although they would use people as much as they could. I felt that personally, because at that time I guess I thought of myself as a reformer. I think the main things is that they like to get people working for their ends, but they must control what is being done. In a sense I think that is why it is doomed to failure. 3876 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA They just about killed the liberal movement in this country because of the infiltration. To me, that is a cardinal sin. But I think the main specific thing why I left was that at one meeting Mischa Altman said, "The good and worth of any act or action that an individual or group of Communists does is if it aids or enhances socialism." I realized fully that that was his morality and possibly the morality of the Communist Party. That was never my morality.
Mr. TAVENNER. By that do you mean that, regardless of the means, it was the end that justified it?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that what you mean ?
Mr. ELIAS. Yes. For myself that was a long road from wanting to help the economic situation of musicians, to a point where the only thing that is goo/ is if it benefits socialism. I left the party. I didn't bother to resign officially. I guess that is about it.
Mr. JACKSON. Was any effort made subsequent to your departure to rerecruit you into the party?
Mr. ELIAS. Many of the party members knew my dissatisfaction and dislike of the methods used and the objectives, so I didn't find that. I did find incidents which were a little disturbing.
Mr. DOYLE (presiding). Do you have further questions, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. Did your associate members in the Communist Party at times refer to you as a Fascist ?
Mr. ELIAS. There was a specific incident. I guess it was a couple of years after I left. I was called by a member of the American Legion post in the musicians' union, and they were starting a symphony orchestra. The person told me what music was going to be played and who the conductor was, and I thought I would like to come down and play. I went to this rehearsal. Subsequently my name was printed in the union magazine. There was a small article about that. Later I met a leading figure in the Communist Party. I mean I met him in a market. And he said, "I saw your name, that you play in this American Legion orchestra. I didn't know that you turned Nazi."
Mr. TAVENNER. That individual then was more interested in the political implications than he was in music for art's sake, was he not?
Mr. ELIAs. Yes. There were really no political implications of that rehearsal, but I guess he thought there were. I found many times-in fact, always-that the leading figures would never discuss issues with you, or even argue with you or debate with you. If you disagreed with them, as I said, you are considered either dumb or anti-Communist. I was even told once when I was in the party-I managed to have a disagreement with Mischa Altman, and, instead of enlightening me possibly or giving me reasons, he just said, "Well, you're going to end up in a concentration camp."
Mr. DOYL. Said what? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3877 
Mr. ELIAS. He said, "You're just going to end up in a concentra- tion camp."
Mr. SCHERER. IS that when you left the Communist Party ?
Mr. ELIAS. When I was in the party and disagreed with him.
Mr. SCHERER. You hadn't even left?
Mr. ELIAs. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was that individual who made the comment you described as to your playing in the American Legion band?
Mr. ELIAS. That was Henry Roth.
Mr. SCHERER. Henry Roth, the same witness who was on the stand here this morning?
Mr. ELIAS. I wasn't here this morning, sir.
Mr. SCHEER. I think he is still back here. Is Roth still here ? Yes; he is in the back row. Stand up. Is that the man?
Mr. ROTH. He's a liar, for the record.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Chairman, just a minute. I ask that we excuse this witness for a minute, and call Mr. Roth and let him repeat under oath that this man is telling a lie. Come on up, Mr. Roth.
Mr. DoYLE. We will recess the testimony of the present witness, Mr. Elias, and call Mr. Roth. (Witness temporarily excused.)
Mr. DOYLE. Are you ready, Mr. Roth, to come under oath again ?
Mr. ROTH. My attorney isn't here.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Marshall has spoken to you. He is an attorney at the bar.
Mr. ROTH. I prefer to wait for my own.
Mr. DoYLE. Will you call and get him here where you can take the oath again ? As long as you have called this man a liar in public, in the hearing room, we would like to have you put under oath again.
Mr. SCHEREE. I say we should call him forthwith. We only want to ask him one question. Let him demonstrate it.
Mr. ROTH. I want my counsel, and I prefer to have him.
Mr. DOYLE. Will you come forward just a minute, please. I recognize your right of counsel. I am not trying to force you to testify without your counsel. But you are being advised by Attorney Marshall. So I suppose that is all right.
Mr. ROTH. I would prefer to wait for my own attorney.
Mr. SCHEER. Let him wait for his own attorney.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, we always favor a witness having counsel. When do you want to testify under oath before this committee again ?
Mr. ROTH. As soon as my attorney comes into the room I will be happy to.
Mr. DOYLE. Who is your attorney?
Mr. ROTH. Mr. Margolis.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Margolis was here. Is he due here with other clients?
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't know.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, may I make a suggestion, that if Mr. Margolis has not reappeared during the balance of the afternoon that
Mr. Roth be resubpenaed to appear here tomorrow morning with his counsel. 3878 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYrE. Will you be here tomorrow morning at 9: 30, Mr. Roth?
Mr. RoTH. I would prefer to do it today if my attorneyMr. JACKSON. I say if he does not show up.
Mr. RoTH. If he doesn't come, may I then have a choice of another attorney ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, indeed. But, at any rate, Mr. Roth, you are under order to be here tomorrow morning, if Mr. Margolis doesn't appear this afternoon. We always favor giving anyone who wants to contradict a statement made under oath, a, chance to go under oath himself and contradict it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Elias, will you come forward.
Mr. DOYE. Mr. Elias, will you please take the stand again. TESTIMONY OF LEWIS ELIAS-Resumed Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. ELIAS. I don't know what I was just called when he walked by. I expect to be called a lot of things by some people.
Mr. SCHERER. Before we go any further, may I interrupt? A few minutes ago in your testimony you identified Henry Roth as a member of the Communist Party; did you not?
Mr. ELIAS. That is correct.
Mr. SCHERER. You were under oath when you identified him?
Mr. ELAS. That is right.
Mr. SCHERER. You also identified Cyril Towbin as a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ELIA. That is correct, sir.
Mr. SCHERER. And Sam Fordis also ?
Mr. ELIAS. That is right, sir.
Mr. SCHERER. I think I would want to call Mr. Cyril Towbin back also, Mr. Chairman, at a later date because he was here this morning, and he was the witness who made such disparaging remarks about Elizabeth Cohen who had identified him in Seattle. Now we have this gentleman here, and Mr. Towbin is in the room. And I would like to have him now deny this man's testimony, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think he is still here.
Mr. DOYLE. We are glad to offer you, Mr. Towbin, the opportunity to come and be under oath and deny the witness' testimony. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left from the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. DOYLE. Some of you gentlemen have hollered about never having a chance to answer. Here's your chance, Mr. Towbin.
Mr. SCHERER. I think we can subpena him.
Mr. TowBIN. Mr. Doyle, I simply say my attorney is not here at present. I again will repeat what I said under oath, that I would refuse to dignify the droppings of an informer under any circumstances.
Mr. DOYLE. All right. Is that your answer to my invitation to you to take the stand and go under oath ?
Mr. TowBIN. I am glad to testify under oath to anything that is honest and honorable as an American citizen, sir. 'COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3879
Mr. DOYLE. You have heard this gentleman's testimony.
Mr. SCHERER. I think we will subpena him tomorrow now. He is the witness who complained this morning, when you read Elizabeth Cohen's testimony. 
Mr. TowBIN. You refused to produce this witness for cross-questioning. And I can have my rights as an American citizen, too, as well as you can. 
Mr. DorYE. We have a witness right here on the stand.
Mr. SCIIERR. I wanted to show the fallaciousness of his contentions.
Mr. DoYLE. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. You had not quite completed your statement.
Mr. ELIAS. Of course, maybe this is out of order, butMr. SCHERER. I'm sorry I interrupted, but I wanted to demonstrate here what we are up against and the hollowness and fraud that is perpetrated by these individuals when they attack the so-called informers. They don't dare get on the stand and deny the testimony under oath because they would obviously be guilty of perjury. Then they come and parade about innocence. (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. DOYIE. All right, Mr. Elias. Are you prepared to proceed further?
Mr. ELAS. I wasn't going to go into all of this. It is personal. But, after what happened, I would like to.
Mr. DorLE. All right.
Mr. ELIAS. I have had a great heritage in my life-religion, and a heritage of this great country; training, parents and teachers. I have tried to use it to the best that I could all my life. There was a certain period where I didn't. There was something personal in that. The year before I joined the Communist Party I had a complete nervous breakdown, and it took me a few years to really get back on my feet, though I got back. Thank God I am on my feet, I think, better than before. I can only do and say according to my conscience; not what anybody tells me. I can only do and say what is right for my country and the people who have trained me to be a good citizen and a good person. When I left the Communist Party I completely disassociated myself from it. I was fortunate enough to get away from these people, make friends for the first time in my life, not on the basis if they were a Democrat or a Republican or anything, but the basis of a person. But even then I found it wasn't enough. There was something inside of me that bothered me. And I knew what it was. I felt that it would be in an emergency or war; I didn't want one American to waste his time bothering if I am loyal or not because I know I am. For that reason I went to the Federal Bureau of Investigation before all this happened. Some of these people, I know, are not revolutionaries. They are misguided, misled, frustrated individuals. If they could just think themselves without benefit of the people sitting next to them and getting together, I wish they would do what I consider the right thing. I have nothing against any person, but I have everything against the Communist Party. 3880 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No, Mr. Chairman, I have no questions, except to observe again how unfortunate it is that we do not have the facility to put the words of witnesses before the people of the community, as I am very much impressed by the sincerity of the witness. I think that those of us who serve on the committee realize what an ordeal psychologically, emotionally, it is to break with the party, with associates, people with whom one has been on very close terms. We realize what an ordeal it is to come before the committee and to tell this committee and the Congress of the American people of one's experiences in the Communist Party. I sometimes think it takes a considerably greater degree of courage to sit there in the almost audible scorn which is emanating from certain quarters of the room and to be frank and complete in your testimony in an effort to help us in the job we are trying to do. I want to express my appreciation to the witness and thank him on behalf of the House of Representatives, if I may.
Mr. DOTLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I just wanted to point out, Witness, that you came here and answered all the questions, and I do not think that there is any fairminded person in this room who does not believe that you absolutely told the truth under oath. I do not think there is a fairminded person in this room who does not believe that when he identified Sam Fordis, Henry Roth and Cyril Towbin as members of the Communist Party he was telling the truth because those men were on the stand this morning, and all three of them refused to say whether or not they were members of the Communist Party. They won't deny it now.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask one more question ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. In order to lay aside the paid-informer charge, with which you are familiar and which you will probably hear more of in the columns of the Daily People's World and elsewhere, were you offered any emolument, any reward, anything in order to make possible your testimony here today?
Mr. ELIAS. I would like to answer that question. I am certainly glad you asked me because I am under oath now. To me, when I left the offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and when I am leaving here, I feel somewhat that I have regained the precious citizenship which I kind of felt like I had lost. That is a great reward, and I really don't care what anybody calls me.
Mr. SCHEREE. You should not worry about that. You have company in the committee.
Mr. EIAS. Thank you.
Mr. SCHEREE. We do not worry about it either.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask, for the record, Mr. Elias, I have never spoken with you in my life, have I? We have never met?
Mr. ELIAS. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. 'That is, before this incident. I want to ask you: Directly or indirectly, have you been offered any compensation of any sort by any person to testify as you have here today? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. ELIAS.
Mr. DOYLE.
Mr. ELIAS. the future.
Mr. DOYLE. 3881 I haven't been offered any compensation of any kind. Or any promise of any sort? I have had no promises of any kind of anything, or in I have conferred with my colleagues, and, as acting chairman of this subcommittee, I am going to continue you under the power of the subpena.
Mr. ELIAS. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. If anyone tries to interfere with you, let Uncle Sam ,know. 
Mr. ELIAS. Thank you, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. We will handle it. And, in view of the fact that I offered these two gentlemen, one of whom called you a liar, an opportunity to testify again will you hold yourself subject to Mr. Tavenner's call?
Mr. ELIAS. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. We may want you to take the stand again after they do, if they do. We want you here to hear what they say, if they say anything.
Mr. ELIAS. All right, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. Any other questions, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you, Mr. Elias.
Mr. ELIAS. May I leave? 
Mr. DOYLE. You are excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. This would be a convenient place for a break, if you want a recess. 
Mr. DoYLE. We will recess for 5 minutes. (Whereupon, a short recess was taken, there being present Repre- sentatives Doyle, Jackson, and Scherer.) (The committee was reconvened upon the expiration of the recess, there being present Representatives Doyle (presiding), Jackson, and Scherer.)
Mr. DOYLE. The committee will reconvene, please. May the record show that 3 members of the subcommittee of 4 are present.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Leonard Dahlsten. 
Mr. DOYLE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you, God?
Mr. DAHLSTEN. I do. 
Mr. DOYLE. Be seated. TESTIMONY OF LEONARD H. DAHLSTEN, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, EDWARD C. MADDOX  