Mr. STARK. Louis Stark.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted you are accompanied by counsel. Will counsel please identify himself for the record f
Mr. KENNY. Robert Kenny, Los Angeles. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Stark?
Mr. STARK. December 4,1915, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where?
Mr. STARK. In New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mr. STARK. That is correct, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you first come to California?
Mr. STARK. Approximately 35 years ago, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you lived here continuously since that time?
Mr. STARK. Continuously with the exception of a period from March 1941 to-this is a copy of my honorable discharge here-period COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1883 of March 1941 to November 16, 1945, when I was discharged at Fort McArthur. Other than that period I resided in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. You served overseas in the fighting forces of the United States
Mr. STARK. I was a member of the 355th Infantry. To those who were in the Pacific, we were more fortunate. We were in Europe. I was an infantryman, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what your educational training has been?
Mr. STARK. I have been educated in the Los Angeles school system, sir. I had 6 years of grammar school, junior high school, graduate of high school. I attended evening high school for perhaps a period of a year or more at various times. That is the extent of my formal education.
Mr. TAVENNER. How were you employed between 1945 and 1948? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. During that period, sir, I believe I was primarily selfemployed in the produce business.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time were you acquainted with Mr. Stephen Wereb, either by his true name as Stephen Weber or by his name as Stephen Wereb?
Mr. STARK. I must refuse to answer that question based on my rights under the Constitution, the first and fifth amendments, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think you were present in the hearing while Mr. Wereb testified regarding your participation in Communist Party activities during that period of 1945 to 1948, were you not?
Mr. STARK. I have been in the committee hearing room on and off Friday and again today, sir. I have been in and out of the room at various times.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you heard his testimony relating to you, I do not want to take the time to repeat it, if you didn't I will repeat it or attempt to refresh your recollection.
Mr. STARK. Well, sir, in view of the fact that I have been in and out, I would not be in a position to know whether I had heard all of his testimony.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you hear his testimony as it related to you? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. Sir, the record will have to speak for itself. I personally am not sure.
Mr. SCHERER. YOU are not sure whether you heard his testimony as related to you?
Mr. STARK. Completely, I couldn't be sure because I was not here all the time. The record will be complete and I do not have it.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you hear him say anything about you at all? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. I am not sure, sir, and I will have to depend on the record.
Mr. SCHERER. You mean you are not sure whether you heard him mention your name at all ?
Mr. STARK. Sir, I will have to rely on my previous answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Wereb testified to the effect that there were a number of occasions where Communist Party classes were conducted in your home at which you were present. 1884 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. STARK. I must refuse to answer that question based on the reasons previously given, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Haven't actually asked you whether that occurred or not, but I will ask you now. Were you present at any such classes, when such classes were held at your home ?
Mr. STARK. I must reply the same way, sir. I refuse to answer based on my rights and in a sense obligations to the Constitution under the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Hawthorne group of the Communist Party? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. I refuse, sir, for the reasons previously given. 
Mr. TAVENNER. It was also testified to that you acted as the liaison between the Communist Party and certain political groups. Did you act as such a liaison ?
Mr. STARK. I must refuse to answer that question based on the reasons previously given.
Mr. TAVENNEn. Were you a candidate for Congress on the Independent Progressive Party ticket in 1948 ?
Mr. STARK. I cross-filed as a member, as a candidate under the Independent Progressive Party, but due to the actual laws of this State governing elections, I have always been a registered Democrat, sir, and ran as a Democratic candidate and if I had had the funds at the time probably would have run as a Republican, as well. The termination of the election was that the Democratic candidate won not only his but the Republican nomination as well and apparently won nothing.
Mr. TAVENNER. In that campaign were you essentially the candidate of the Independent Progressive Party? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. I really can't answer that question, it is rather ambiguous, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discuss your candidacy on the ticket of the Independent Progressive Party with functionaries of the Communist Party prior to your filing as a candidate with the Independent Progressive Party ?
Mr. STARK. I am sorry I interrupted you, but I believe I gathered the sense of your question and I must refuse to answer that on the first supported by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with the membership of the committee for the Independent Progressive Party at the time of your candidacy I
Mr. STARK. I must for the reasons previously stated refuse to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, how many of the members of that committee were members of the Communist Party?
Mr. STARK. My answer to that, sir, in view of the fact that it is a similar question, must be the same.
Mr. DoYLE. I think, Mr. Tavenner, our evidence is that by far more than one was a member of that group, I mean more than one Communist was a member of the IPP committee in control at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of declaration of candidacy as an Independent Progressive Party candidate for nomi- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1885 nation to the office of Congressman from the 17th District, June 1, 1948. On the second page of which appears the signature of the candidate, to which is attached sponsors certificate showing signatures required by law to be obtained. Will you examine the document, please, and state whether or not that is your signature on the second page as candidate ? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. I am sorry, sir, I have the document but I have lost the question directed to it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine the second page and state whether or not the signature there of the candidate is your signature?
Mr. STARK. I decline to answer that, sir, based on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine the list of sponsors which follow?
Mr. STARK. I have done that, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have done that?
Mr. STARK. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you will examine the document, I am certain you will see names of people identified by Mr. Wereb as members of the Hawthorne group of the Communist Party. Will you tell the committee, please, which of those you agree with
Mr. Wereb were members of the Communist Party? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. I refuse to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are at perfect liberty to make any explanation you desire.
Mr. STARK. I realize that, sir, but I must rely on advice of counsel, whom I have implicit faith in. This is more complicated that I had originally thought, sir, and counsel is aware of my position, as is the chairman.
Mr. TAVENNER. What complicated situation do you speak of?
Mr. STARK. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend a meeting of the Communist Party at which your candidacy as an Independent Progressive Party candidate was urged? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. I would like to reiterate, sir, that I never was a candidate of the Independent Progressive Party. I have always been a registered Democrat and ran on that, as a Democrat. I crossfiled, which is a part of the election laws of this State as a candidate for the Progressive Party and did not run as a candidate of that party in the runoffs because I was not eligible.
Mr. MOULDER. You say if you had had the filing fee you would also have filed on the Republican ticket?
Mr. STARK. It is a practice used by all of the politiciansMr. SCHERER. He said he was a registered Democrat.
Mr. STARK. I would have run if I had had the additional filing fee, sir, as a Republican.
Mr. SCHERER. I agree that he would have filed if he had had the fee. I doubt if the Republicans would have let him run. 65500-55-pt. 4-8 1886 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. The declaration of candidacy I hand you states: I hereby declare myself an Independent Progressive Party candidate for nomination. Doesn't that make you a candidate for nomination on the Independent Progressive Party ticket ? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. The document speaks for itself, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, then, it is true that if it speaks the truth that you were a candidate, an Independent Progressive Party candidate. If that is not true, please so state. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. Well, sir, apparently it would take a good deal of time to understand the peculiar election laws in this State which is evident in the document, but the document must speak for itself, confusing as it is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me see if I can clear it up. Does that language indicate that though you may have been a candidate on some other ticket that this meant crossfiling ?
Mr. STARK. Yes, it does, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am trying to get the facts. That is what I want to know.
Mr. STARK. As I say, the general practice is for candidates for political office to file on all parties.
Mr. SCHERER. That is not the general practice.
Mr. STARK. The general practice-Mr. SCHERER. To file in all three parties? I thought they filed in the Democratic and Republican primaries.
Mr. STARK. Many of them did. I am not qualified to state how many, but I think many of them did.
Mr. DOYLE. I think in view of the fact that I am a California Congressman and a registered Democrat, I wish to state it wasn't the general practice as far as I am concerned. I never filed in the IPP, crossfiled. I did crossfile in the Republican Party and I think I won its nomination, too, once in a while.
Mr. STARK. Well, sir, it might be profitable to go to the secretary of State for a matter of record and engage in research to determine how many candidates for political office did this. I have no way of saying at the present time.
Mr. TAVENNER. The point I have asked you to clear up is: What part did the Communist Party play in your crossfiling or participation in that election on the Independent Progressive Party ticket.
Mr. STARK. I must refuse to answer that question based on the grounds previously given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee whether or not the Communist Party at that time controlled and directed the Independent Progressive Party in its function
Mr. STARK I cannot answer that question based on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. DOYLE. I think Mr. Tavenner as a California Congressman I think it has been discovered that in those days in too large manner the Communist Party in California did control too much entirely the policy and practices of the IPP party. That was discovered by me and it was discovered by many California Congressmen and it is COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1887 self-evident and I think that the IPP is still infiltrated with too many Communists and that the IPP is-that is, the Communist members of the IPP party, formerly IPP party because it isn't now, legally qualified in California as I understand it, are now trying to infiltrate the Democratic and Republican political machinery in Los Angeles County and other counties in California. No question about that.
Mr. SCHERER. They have a hard time getting in the Republican Party, don't they?
Mr. DOYLE. They get in the Republican Party too often and too often in the Democratic Party. They get into both parties. But they still have the same Communist intent and purpose in my book. I think I know a few of them.
Mr. MOULDER. There was a question asked you as to whether or not you are now a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. STARK. I am not now a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you were a candidate for Congress?
Mr. STARK. I refuse to answer that question based on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Independent Progressive Party? 
Mr. STARK. I was never a member to the best of my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. Never a member? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. STARK. Never registered, I will put it that way, as a member of the Independent Progressive Party. I was always registered since I was a little whelp in this city as a Democrat.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Tavenner, the law used to be in California we could cross-file into other parties without being registered in that party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, I understand. Were you a member of the Communist Party in 1954 ?
Mr. STARK. I refuse to answer that question based on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you cease to become a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. STARK. I refuse to answer that question based on the same grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. You desire to rely upon your statement that you are not now a member of the Communist Party, but will give no other facts relating to membership ?
Mr. STARK. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to give you every opportunity to explain your answer, how you got out of the Communist Party, if you did.
Mr. STARK. I have no legal training and I must, as you know I must, give that answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. This committee has no information indicating that you are not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. STARK. I am aware of that, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. It has evidence that you were a member of the Communist Party in 1948. I want to give you every opportunity toMr. STARK. I am not now a Communist, sir. Beyond that I can answer no questions.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not desire to go any further with the matter ? 1888 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. STARK. Under the rights as I understand them, under the Constitution, without implying, although unfortunately in the minds of many people the use of these amendments which were put into our Constitution and a great deal of hard work by many Americans whom I have always admired historically, these are now being misconstrued and I use them as they were intended to be.
Mr. SCHERER. I do think this witness has properly invoked the fifth amendment and he is to be complimented on his demeanor and attitude here as a witness.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to be sure to give him every possible opportunity to explain his action if he desires to do so.
Mr. STARK. Counsel knows the reasons that I(The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. Let me ask a question: Have you ever knowingly engaged in any espionage or subversive activities?
Mr. STARK. NO, sir. 
Mr. MOULDER. Have you ever knowingly committed any acts of disloyalty to your country, the United States of America
Mr. STARK. Unequivocally no, sir, and I might add that I will resent and have in the past and in the last few days, any implications of that. and without going into any braggadocio I think my activity in this city socially and politically, going back to the recall of Mayor Frank ShawMr. MOULDER. I merely asked you the question to give you an opportunity to make that statement in explanation.
Mr. STARK. I have not, sir. 
Mr. SCHERER. We have not tried to leave that impression or create any such implication.
Mr. STARK. I appreciate that. 
Mr. SCHERER. I think your attitude toward the committee has been splendid, that you properly invoked the fifth amendment.
Mr. STARK. I tried to do it honestly. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Did you testify as to your service in the Armed Forces of the United States?
Mr. STARK. Yes, sir; I was in the service; for a period of less than 5 years and, as I say, I have several items which I treasure most. One is the Combat Infantryman's Badge, and the other for domestic purposes, a Good Conduct Medal.
Mr. MOULDER. With an honorable discharge for your service.
Mr. STARK. Yes. 
Mr. SCHERER. I must ask you another question. Were you a member of the party when you were in the armed services ?
Mr. STARK. I refuse to answer that question, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. On what grounds?
Mr. STARK. On the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. 
Mr. DOYLE. May I make a very brief observation. I think I as an individual have reason to believe you haven't been in the Communist Party for several years. I am not asking you to-I want to congratulate you on getting out, and I wish the legal situation was such that you could do that which I know you would be glad to do COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1889 and therefore officially as a fellow citizen may I urge you to use the great ability you have and the great knowledge you have of how the Communist Party used to operate, use that vigorously and vigilantly, my friend, to overcome the damage done by the Communist Party both past and present. I kind of have a hunch that you are in a position to contribute much, especially to the education and information of young people of teen age and college age, and help them from the danger of it in any way identifying with the Communist conspiracy. Again I wish the legal situation was different so that you could help us.
Mr. STARK. I appreciate your saying it, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. And I may say although you may have been in the hearing room when my distinguished colleagues, Mr. Moulder and
Mr. Scherer said it, but we hope that there will be no reprisal in any way against you as a result of the necessity we have had in calling you before the committee. If there is, I am making a sincere statement, we hope it doesn't occur and if it does, we regret it and will do whatever we properly can to help correct it.
Mr. STARK. Thank you.
Mr. SCHERER. I just want the record to show that in view of his taking the fifth amendment, I can't fully associate myself with your last statement.
Mr. DOYLE. I understand, but it is my statement and I feel that way about it.
Mr. SCHERE. You said "we."
Mr. DOrE. I am sorry. I will eliminate you but sometimes these things occur and we know a man presently before us as a patriotic citizen entitled to every honest break he can have. Is there any other question ?
Mr. MOULDER. NO.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you, witness, and counsel. (Whereupon the witness was excused.)
Mr. WHEELER. We have one more witness. Mr. Robert Brock.
Mr. BROCK. I have a press statement I would like to give. I will give one to the committee if they want one.
Mr. DoLE. We will be glad of course to have a press statement, that is issued at the time the witness takes the stand. May I ask you to be sworn.
Mr. BROCK. Surely.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God
Mr. BROCK. I do. TESTIMONY OF ROBERT L. BROCK, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ARTHUR A. BROOKS 