Mrs. MEYER. My name is Margaret Vaughn Meyer.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted you are accompanied by counsel. Will counsel please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. MARSHALL. Daniel G. Marshall, Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a native of California?
Mrs. MEYER. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I was born in Philadelphia, Pa., United States of America.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell your last name, please?
Mrs. MEYER. M-e-y-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you move to California ?
Mrs. MEYER. To the best of my recollection, I am almost certain that it was the fall of 1937. I can't state positively. I think that was it.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is sufficient. What profession are you engaged in?
Mrs. MEYER. I am a housewife.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you engaged in any profession or trade? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. Mr. Doyle, at this time I wish to stand on my rights as an American citizen, democratic rights, which the committee has stated they believe in and I believe in; I have a right to decline. I am going to refuse to answer this question under the protection of the Constitution of the United States, specifically the first amendment to the Constitution, supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. Was your question whether or not she hadMr. TAVENNER. What was her occupation, is the substance of it.
Mr. DOYLE. We cannot accept your answer and I direct you to answer the question. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1845 
Mr. MARSHALL. This question is somewhat different than the one you proposed and I suggest we read it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't ask the question the second time. The chairman asked what I asked and I advised him the substance of it. If the witness does not understand and wants the question reread we will have it reread. I didn't ask the question over. To end the matter, will you read the question.
Mr. MARSHALL. We want the question read which the chairman said he was not satisfied with her answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is the only question I asked. 
Mr. MARSHALL. The chairman didn't say he wasn't satisfied with the answer to your question. He said he wasn't satisfied with the witness' answer to the chairman's question.
Mr. TAENNER. NO. 
Mr. JACKSON. What is the original question? The question asked by counsel. (The reporter read from his notes as directed.)
Mrs. METER. Will you reread the phrasing of it? I am not sure of the phrasing.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever engaged in any profession or trade?
Mrs. METER. I am now a housewife. I have been a teacher in the past.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you last engage in the profession of teach- ing? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I believe it was December of 1952 when I last was actually in a classroom.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am sorry, I couldn't hear you.
Mr. MARSHALL. Let the reporter read it.
Mr. DOYLE. December 1952.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask the witness to reply to my question, please, as to when it was that she last taught-and I do not like for counsel to prevent her from answering my question.
Mr. DOYLE. She answered it.
Mr. MARSHALL. She answered it. My only suggestion was when you didn't hear to have the reporter read it rather than have her restate it. Let's have the reporter read it if you have any doubt about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have a right to ask the witness. -Mr. JACKSON. The witness answered the question in an inaudible manner. 
Mr. MARSHALL. Did the reporter hear it?
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you still hold your teaching credentials? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. METER Yes sir; I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you commonly known by the name of Peggy? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I gave you my name, sir, and I refuse to answer questions on the grounds of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth in regard to any other name.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask that the witness be directed to answer?
Mr. DOYLE. We cannot accept that answer as sufficient. I direct you to answer the question. (The witness conferred with her counsel.) 1846 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mrs. MEYER. I refuse to answer this question on the grounds of the first amendment of the Constitution, supplemented by the fifth amendment to the Constitution. I believe I have that right.
Mr. JACKSON. No one has questioned your right.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that your name is Margaret Vaughn Meyer. How long has your name been Margaret Vaughn Meyer? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I decline to answer this question on the same grounds of my rights under the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. We do not accept the answer as sufficient, Mrs. Meyer, and I direct you to answer the question. I think it is a very reasonable question to know who you are and how long you have been known by the name you use.
Mrs. MEYER. I stated my name when first asked, and I refuse to answer any further questions about my name under my rights on the same ground previously stated, the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was your name Margaret Vaughn on October 17, 1950? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I decline to answer for the same reasons, on the grounds of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of an oath of allegiance for public employees bearing date 17th day of October 1950, and I will ask you to examine the signature of Margaret Vaughn and state whether or not you signed it or made it. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I decline to answer this question on the same ground as previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Meyer Exhibit No. 1," for identification only. It is an oath of allegiance for public employees with the signature Margaret Vaughn on it, position title, elementary teacher, subscribed and sworn to on the 17th day of October 1950. On the 17th of October 1950 were you a member of the Communist party?
Mr. DOYLE. It will be received and so marked. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I refuse to discuss anything of this nature in the presence of this committee, it is my right to discuss or not to discuss and so I refuse to answer any such questions so I wish to decline to answer that question on the basis of my rights under the Constitution, the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Meyer, were you in the hearing room during the testimony of Mr. Stephen Wereb? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I do not wish to discuss this. I refuse to answer that question.
Mr. JACKSON. I ask direction. Obviously whether or not she was in the hearing room at the time any other witness testified is in no manner incriminating, and I don't accept the answer and request a direction.
Mr. DOYLE. I don't, either. I direct you to answer the question. It is manifestly pertinent and reasonable. (The witness conferred with her counsel.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1847 
Mrs. MEYER. I believe it is my right to decline to answer this ques- tion, which I do on the same grounds as previously stated, the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, the answer is still not acceptable so far as I am concerned. I think it is a pertinent question and I ask that the witness again be directed to answer. 
Mr. DoLE. I direct you again, Mrs. Meyer, to answer the question.
Mrs. MEYER. I should like to ask the reason for asking such a question.
Mr. DOYLE. We don't think your answer was sufficient nor competent.
Mrs. MEYER. In what way? 
Mr. DOYLE. We are not going to argue about it. You can stand on your rights, whatever your counsel advises you, of course. But I direct you to answer the question so the record will show very clearly what we did. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. MEYER. I refuse to answer that question, sir, I believe that is my right and I ait so advised by counsel, on the basis of the protection of the first amendment to the Constitution supplemented by the fifth, which is for the very existence of protecting the rights of the citizens of the United States of America.
Mr. MOULDER. May I say I want to clarify the record. So far as I am concerned, I think this idea of directing a witness to answer the question time after time is a very silly, frivolous procedure. The purpose of that of course is to advise you that in the event you fail to answer you may be cited for contempt. I think after a witness has once been informed of that fact, there is no reason time after time to say "I direct you to answer."
Mr. TAVENNER. Otherwise, they would contend they didn't understand.
Mr. JACKSON. I think it is necessary in this case on subsequent questions relating to that individual which might conceivably be incriminating where the invocation it seems to me would be perfectly proper. However, as to whether or not a witness was in the hearing room at the time any given individual testified is in my opinion not incriminating, and I want it definitely understood in the record and for that reason I asked for the two directions and I still do not accept it.
Mr. MOULDER. It just makes a silly show of the committee sitting here. As a lawyer I want to make my position clear.
Mr. SCHERER. I have to disagree. I have read the Emspak case and the only reason we do it is because the Supreme Court according to my interpretation of the Emspak case makes us do it. I think it is silly, too. We are bound by it.
Mr. MOULDER. That case held the only purpose it served was to advise the witness they might be cited for contempt. They are advised. There is no reason to direct them time after time.
Mr. JACKSON. I agree the record is clear now.
Mrs. MEYER. Sir, in view of the remarks you have made, I would like to answer the question a little differently, if I may. I was here today during all of the proceedings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you hear Mr. Wereb testify that he was known in the Communist Party by the name of Stephen Weber? (The witness conferred with her counsel.) 1848 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mrs. METER. I decline to answer questions regarding testimony of any other witness, sir. Mr. Jackson stated that he failed to see anything incriminating in stating whether or not I was here during testimony of another witness, so I decided I would state that I was here today during this testimony of this other witness. However, I feel it is entirely my right to decline to discuss any matter referring to testimony given here. I have that right under the first amendment and fifth amendment of the Constitution and since there is no due process or opportunity to cross-examine witnesses as there would be in a court, I wish to decline to answer the question on those grounds.
Mr. JACKSON. With apologies to my colleague, I am going to enter in the record again the fact that I am not satisfied that one person heard another person say something in the hearing room is incriminating in and of itself, and I am going to ask that the chairman direct the witness to answer.
Mr. MARSHALL. Why don't you have the testimony of that witness read and direct questions to the witness about it instead of asking her if she was here or wasn't here?
Mr. DoYLE. Mr. Marshall, please. I direct your witness to answer the question. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. While we are waiting for that answer, I might say that the Supreme Court, in the case referred to, says in short, unless the witness is clearly apprised, that the committee demands that answer, notwithstanding his objection, there can be no conviction, under section 192, for refusal to answer the question.
Mr. MARSHALL. Am I supposed to hear part of that, Mr Scherer?
Mr. SqrHRR. No, that is for the benefit of us who have a little disagreement here.
Mrs. MEYER. The testimony of the witness to whom you refer is a matter of record and I refuse to answer on the grounds of the first amendment, supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. DoYLE. Manifestly we can't accept that as an adequate, proper answer to the question and I direct you to answer. It is an avoidance of a fair question. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. METER. Such a question might conceivably tend to incriminate me. Otherwise, I fail to see why it is being asked. I feel that I definitely have the right to refuse to answer the question on the first amendment and supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. DonLE. You have a right to stand on your constitutional privilege. Do you stand on your constitutional privilege?
Mrs. MEYER. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Let the record show I consider the question entirely proper and I do not consider the answer to be a proper use of the fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. Neither do I, but I have directed her twice to answer it and that ought to be sufficient for her to understand that we don't accept it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you hear the witness, Mr. Wereb, state that Peggy Vaughn, a teacher, was an active member of the Hawthorne group of the Communist Party? (The witness conferred with her counsel.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1849 
Mrs. METER. That is the same type of question and therefore I invoke the protection of the Constitution and decline to answer on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Hawthorne group of the Communist Party (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. METER. I refuse to answer any questions of this kind on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you specifically refuse to answer this question?
Mrs. METER. I decline to answer this question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. MEYER. I decline to answer this question also on the basis of the first amendment, supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you knowingly been a member of the Communist Party at any time since September 10, 1948?
Mrs. MEYER. I refuse to answer this question on the basis of the first amendment as well as the fifth amendment to the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. NO questions.
Mr. SCHERER. No questions. 
Mr. DOYLE. I have no questions. Thank you, Mrs. Meyer, and Counsel. (Whereupon the witness was excused.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to make two announcements.
Mr. DoYLE. Will you stand by a moment because it may affect some of you in the room.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of the testimony of Mr. Wereb, mention of the name of Mr. John Houston was made. Mr. Houston has indicated a desire to be cooperative with the committee. I thought that it was due him to make that statement now and as an indication he is not a member of the Communist Party at this time. I have reason to believe he will cooperate with the committee in giving such facts as are within his knowledge. A second matter. It has been called to my attention that there is a Mr. Bert Coffee living in Los Angeles. If that is true, he is not the person referred to by the witness Mr. Wereb. The Bert Coffee referred to by Mr. Wereb lives in the vicinity of San Francisco and I have inquired into it enough to know that it is not the Mr. Bert Coffee who a short time ago was employed in Los Angeles by the FHA.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you, Mr. Tavenner. The committee will stand in recess until 9 o'clock tomorrow morning. (Whereupon, at 5: 30 p. m. the committee was recessed, to reconvene at 9 a. m. the following day, Saturday, July 2, 1955.) INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA-Part 4 SATURDAY, JULY 2, 1955 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACrIVITIES, Los Angeles, California. PUBLIC HEARING A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met at 9:10 a. m., pursuant to recess, in room 518 Federal Building, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. Clyde Doyle (chairman of the subcommittee) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Clyde Doyle (chairman); Morgan M. Moulder, and Gordon H. Scherer. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, counsel, and William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. DOYLE. Will the committee please convene ? May the record show there is a legal quorum present: Mr. Scherer of Ohio, Mr. Moulder of Missouri, and Mr. Doyle of California acting as chairman. Are you ready, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I would like to recall Mr. Wereb at this time. Mr. Wereb was sworn yesterday. TESTIMONY OF STEPHEN A. WEREB-Resumed
Mr. Wereb, you described yesterday for us the Communist Party convention at which the Duclos letter episode was discussed. You described for us the attendance at that meeting of the Communist Party functionaries throughout the State of California. You also described for us or told us of statements and arguments that were made on the floor of that convention. I would like to ask you at this time to go a little more fully into statements made by several of the leading functionaries of the Communist Party in California, Mr. Schneiderman and Mrs. Yates.
Mr. WEREB. To the best of my recollection there was a meeting held at the Embassy Auditorium, I believe in the latter part of 1946, and the main at this large meeting of functionaries the general speaker or under the speaker was William Schneiderman, who was convicted Smith Act at the trial 2 years ago.
Mr. Schneiderman spoke very derogatorily of Mr. Truman, our past to the world president, as to his "A" bomb policy, trying to force on 1851 1852 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA the threat of the A-bomb which at that time only we possessed. But he also brought to the attention of those present that due to the Socialist and Communist gains in Burma, China, Italy, France, Great Britain, and the rest of the world where Marxism and Leninism now is a serious factor, where could the United States of America in case of a war between the U. S. S. R., appeal for help or allies? He questioned in his own mind and he put this other question to those present of about 700 at that meeting as to the foreign policy that this country led and conducted. He demanded that the party through all its agencies and all its forces-forces was the word used most of the time, seemed to be the party pet word-the forces that are capable of influencing or bringing about other decisions than the decision of this Government, such as the immediate demobilization of all American troops and bringing them home, removal of all labels from relief goods to all countries, no United States names or any identification whatsoever that it might have come as a relief or gift package from the United States, and further again he went into the Marxist training, the extreme care which the party must under all circumstances give to their new recruits and to their retraining and their institution into the party. That was the general view and the general speech that Mr. Schneiderman made at that time.
Mr. Schneiderman, I believe, was a member of the national board of the Communist Party of the United States or a committee member thereof. Therefore, in my opinion, he could not speak anything that was contrary to the policy of the Communist Party of the United States and no one in the United States Communist Party could speak unless it was a policy of the Russian Communist Government. As a proof I could refer back to the Duclos letter, the immediate upset of the whole Communist movement in the United States just by one Frenchman's letter. If therefore that letter had such terrific impact, naturally all other directives had their origin. I have never seen any of the directives myself, but I do know that whatever any of the literature that came through from Embassy sources and whatnot, they were almost identical to the policy of the party that was adopted here in the United States by the Communists.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you have any direct knowledge of messages coming from the Russian Embassy to the party leadership here.
Mr. WEREB. Just the regular directives which are I believe sent through public mail and I believe every embassy has the same type of literature that they send to their constitutents or their subjects and they have, those letters which I did have or copies thereof, I believe I have turned in to the Federal Bureau of Investigation at that time, but they almost identically jibe with every move of the party at that time. I do not have any of those letters in my possession because they were very hard to get, and only through different sources which I am not at this time permitted to reveal, received them.
Mr. MOULDER. But you do recall of your own personal knowledge having seen such letters from the Russian Embassy which dictated the policy to be followed by the Communists in this country?
Mr. WEREB. They were a form letter, understand, they were not a written individual letter addressed to a certain party, they were a form letter, and I imagine, this is just purely imaginary or reasoning on my part that if they were sent to this local office of the Communist COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1853 Party, that they would also be sent to other groups in other cities and headquarters of the Communist Party elsewhere in the United States.
Mr. MOULDER. The point I want to emphasize is; you know of your own personal knowledge they were sent to the local Communist organization here ?
Mr. WEREB. That is correct, sir, and sometimes they were sent to what were known as supportive members. The Communist Party was divided into three groups: There were the leadership group, or the functionary group, whether they be on State, National, or other levels. Then there were your general membership, what they called the nucleus of the group. Then there was another group which were very, very hard to keep track of. I received checks at one time or another, as donations to the People's World and different drives even as high as $50 checks. I couldn't tell you who they come from because I am not permitted to tell you that at this time. In fact, I wouldn't be too sure because it went further than myself and this came from the third group of members known as the supportive members. Now these people actually do not partake in any Communist movements with the exception of the moneys that they give. At one time there was a report made at one of the functionary meetings that the Hollywood Club had sent $3,000 as a soup kitchen fund to this United States Motors strike that I testified to yesterday. They were identified, only we were told in Nemmy Sparks' office, who was head of the Los Angeles County Communist Party, we were told that this came from a very loyal actors' group and he was not at liberty to say who the donors were. Does that answer your question, sir?
Mr. MOULDR. I want to take you back to the contact with the Russian Embassy that they kept in contact with the Communist organization here locally and your assumption that they probably pursued the same practice throughout the United States. What period was that; what date, approximately
Mr. WEREB. That began, sir, the very first letter I saw was at the inception and I think immediately after the United Nations went into effect. In other words, also again there was another instance pertaining to this man Nemmy Sparks. We went to this functionaries' closed meeting, it was also held at 124 West Sixth Street on the fifth floor; and he told us at that time, he said "Now, look, comrades, this United Nations step is a lot of bunk as far as I am concerned. It means nothing; it is an avenue, a pavement, a road that we want to travel on where and how it pleases us, and don't pay too much strict attention until you get further party orders." That was the very first time that I noticed a letter in the office from the Russian Embassy which I immediately happened to take and forwarded to the proper authorities. Now, this letter was of no consequence outside of a directive as to Marxist or newsworthy policy, I at this time couldn't say because I don't believe anyone has testified to that and I don't have anything substantial here to show for that, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. I wish to emphasize the importance of it in this respect: That if the Russian Embassy was openly using the mails to encourage Communist activity in this country during that period of 65500-55-pt. 4--0 1854 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA time, then they probably are still in contact with the Communists, loyal Communists that are now active or under cover actively engaged in communism in this country today. If the Russian Embassy was so conducting its office in that manner, then they probably haven't lost contact today. How did you identify the correspondence or letters or documents that came here ?
Mr. WEREB. It said it was Russian Information Service, news service, and it was sent by the Russian Embassy from Washington, sir, and that type of letter has been circulated in this city. It isn't new and I believe newspapers know of it and they have known of it for a long time that such letters do exist and such correspondence does exist. Sometimes it does come under the guise of news and information. But many, many times in those news and informations there are things that you can read between lines. In 1947, I believe, January, was another Communist Party day of some type or, was it a People's World drive of $75,000? We had a speaker here known as Oleta Yates, also convicted of the Smith Act 2 years ago in the local Federal courts. This Oleta Yates spoke of further Russian policy and the guaranty of communism and socialism in such countries as France, Burma, Italy, China, Czechoslovakia, and these countries which are now sadly behind the Iron Curtain. She spoke how it was possible for these countries to get there. It was through the Marxist training of the Communist leadership, its core. Also at this meeting there were about 400 to 450 people at the Embassy auditorium. She spoke of the possibilities of other countries under Marxist and Leninist training coming under this said Russian haven. She spoke very menacingly of the foreign policy of the United States at that time. Each of them drove the objective of union leaders, union leaders, absolute labor leaders whether openly or otherwise, to be Marxist trained, strikes to be Marxist led, all activities are to be looked at not from a Fascist standpoint but a Marxist and Bolshevik standpoint. That was the outstanding thing. They switched to the Bolshevik shortly after the war was closed. I noticed in their press they avoided during Browder's period the word bolshevism as much as possible, but immediately afterward, the word became in common use. Proletariat, all these words which in my mind are very annoying because I know what they meant and I just knew what they were driving at, to me they were very alarming so I have noticed them a little more, probably, than the average person. There were a number of other things she repeated over and over again but again, sir, may I call your attention to that, that she too was one of the very highups in the Communist Party in the State of California. She was a member of the State board of the Communist Party in the State of California and they do not make statements, no one in the Communist Party makes statements unless they have either instructions or approval to make it so. That is all I can say on these two meetings, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. One of the functions which you performed in the Communist Party, according to your early testimony, was that of acting as press director for your club. Will you explain your duties briefly and state whether or not in the course of the performance of your duties you had occasion to meet members of the press and particularly the Daily People's World. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1855 
Mr. WEREB. I didn't have to refer to my notes here because these are very outstanding in my mind, being that they took up so much of my free time. Time allotted to rest in the evening, I spent at this People's World drive in order to carry out a sham that I stood for in the Communist Party. Shortly after I was inducted into the Hawthorne group and I finished my 10 weeks' course in the workers' school, at the present time I do not recall how I became a press director and I was instructed I believe by the executive board of the group as to what I would do and who I would report to and get further instructions. I was sent to Second and Spring Street, that is, I think the top floor they occupied, the publication known as the People's World. I met there a person by the name of William Weintraub. This man gave me application blanks, receipts, receipt books; the application blanks were to the party, to the Communist Party, and subscription blanks to the People's World, so if there is any doubt in anybody's mind that they were not connected I don't see why the Herald Express or some other paper would give me as a representative a card to belong to any organization or to subscribe or bring some people into the organization. I was sent to my group and was told that I was to make a 5-minute speech at every Communist Party meeting of our group pleading to those who did not subscribe at that time to buy the paper. We had had many mobilizations, as they called it, of newspapers which would take Sunday mornings which I didn't take too much part in because I was busy with other functions in the evenings and being also appointed by the People's World known as a Communist as a district director, therefore I had other Communist groups or clubs in that area whom I contacted whose press directors I met with, and planned strategy as to fund raising, as to subscription drives, as to distribution of papers.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I interrupt you a moment.
Mr. WERE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were those selected as press directors of the Communist Party supposed to represent any particular group of the Communist Party ?
Mr. WEREB. Each Communist club, sir, had their own press director.
Mr. TAVENNER. Attached to the Daily People's World?
Mr. WEREB. One of the offices in the Communist group. That was a "must." First was your chairman, then your membership chairman, your educational director, your press director, your literature director, your executive committee members.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not certain I understand. Did those press directors have some function regarding the Daily People's World. I am not certain whether that is true or not.
Mr. WFEB. The only publication that we were to handle was the Daily People's World. Occasionally there came a request from some oldtimer for the Daily Worker of New York or the Sunday supplement thereof, but it was not a "must," so much, because that was obtainable at the Progressive Bookshop and many a time there were free distributions of it to different groups, but Daily People's World publication was a "must." That is the reason I held the office in the group, 1856 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CAIFU., AREA was to further financialwise and the subscription drive of this newspaper. Does that answer your question, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. WEREB. Over the period of time these people were known to me and have met with me at the People's Daily World as district managers. Alice Ward, Sparks, one of the two is an alias, I combined the two Sparks, wife of one Nemmy Sparks. Nathan Shapiro, a little foreign speaking man from the Hollywood area. Elsie Monjar, a person whom I have mentioned previously, came to my home and wanted to find out why I belonged to the Communist Party. James Dixon, Arden Westman, Anne Trojan. She was of the Rhetta group, I believe. Edwin Hagen was a member of our group and was the person I described yesterday as being a refugee or an unwanted character from so many countries. Ann Chernick. She also was convicted in the Smith case. These people I have met and these people all were Communist Party members. I knew them at functionary meetings, I met with them at Communist groups. Each of them held an office in the Communist Party. Every person working with the exception of one whom I have never seen at a closed meeting but I did see at many of the rallies, as they called them, they were members of the party. If you didn't belong to the party directly and openly you were listed as a supportive member, but you were connected with the party if you had anything to do with the Daily People's World and the security of the Los Angeles County Communist Party saw to it that no one had that job unless you were of the three categories.
Mr. TAVE N NER. Did the Communist Party assist the financing of the Daily People's World by any method other than contribution of funds derived from dues
Mr. WEREB. The finances of the Daily People's World to the best of my knowledge, which I made it my business to find out, was derived in three ways: Those liberal advertisers, and that was very small, and the amount was very little, from the commercial side. There were the funds that were raised by subscription. the party-that is, the Communist Party-was required to put onThen a fundraising campaign at intervals. Each club was required to raise a certain amount of money besides their subscription. I conducted 4 or 5 social affairs to this effect which were open to others thanabout only Communist Party members, but this was for raising funds and I believe the very first successful fund raising I had in that group which was previous to any history that they made, I think was $400, the very first time that I raised funds for them. This repeated itself at intervals at least twice a year where you were compelled to raise funds through one means or another. Of course the balance of the time one got after old subscribers discontinued subscribers, new subscribers, or those who wished to have them reissued. The People's World was sent to people by mail, it was delivered personally, it was distributed at all the riots, all disturbances, all ques- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1857 tionable political meetings. The clubs were taxed for the amount of bundles that they had taken. I believe if I am right I took 100 copies to the United States Motors. The club had no money in the fund at that time because they were always short, the county Communist Party took the clubs' funds if they were over $10, I believe, or in the vicinity of $10, they wouldn't trust a club with any more than $10. In other words, you had to function from whatever you could raise immediately. These papers were distributed at all these doings.
Mr. MOTLDER. You say one bundle was delivered to United States Motors. That is rather vague. You didn't follow it up as to what thatmeant
Mr. WEREB. I distributed those at that riot as long as I could and as I said yesterday, when distribution got a little too much and tear gas got too close, I took off.
Mr. MouLDER. I didn't understand your statement. In other words, it was delivered there for distribution among those who were participating in the strike at United States Motors?
Mr. WEREB. That is right, anywhere, sir, where they could get workers congregated and there were many a distribution at shop gates as they came out and if you couldn't sell it to them, give it to them, and the club would pay for it. I also was treasurer for a while to the group in Hawthorne, kept accurate records. I believe two of us kept records of that club. From those funds we sent to the People's Word a certain allotment at different periods, at intervals. The People's World to my knowledge was and still is a Communist publication and all employees, agents, or distributors thereof are connected with the Communist Party, sir. Anything else you wish to know on that, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned a Communist bookstore. Will you tell the committee whether you know of your own knowledge that the employees of that bookstore were members of the Communist Party?
Mr. WEREB. The Progressive Bookshop employees or director of the bookstore was always a member of the Los Angeles County Committee of the Communist Party. That was the county committee. I do believe that I have a name or two here of that bookstore because I did have contact with them many times and times when the club couldn't pay their bill, I paid it, never mentioned it, because the club was always in debt for something. Ten dollars was the maximum the county would permit the club to have before they taxed you for something. There was a Lillian Alexander of the Watts Club, a temporary employee, the wife of one Hershel Alexander, the past chairman of the Watts Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Which one of the two was chairman of the Watts Communist Party?
Mr. WEREB. Hershel Alexander was the chairman of the Watts Communist Club. There was a Nettie or the nickname she used was Eddie, Baker, a woman. She was in that store continuously-that is, during business hours or hours appointed by the county, to be open for the use of different clubs to pick up literature because all Communist literature, pamphlets, directives, books, works of Stalin, Engels, and all these bums, their books were obtained from this bookstore. 1858 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA The Communist Party itself at 124 West Sixth Street, just gave directives, recommendations of what books to get, what literature to get from this progressive bookshop.
Mr. MOULDER. Is that bookshop still in operation?
Mr. WEREr. I believe that is on Central Avenue somewhere, but I do not know its present number. That bookstore is still in operation and still operates the same as ever and is still under the same principles. In fact, in Canada at one time they banned bookstores of that type and we had a man in our group, a well-to-do elderly man, I will try and find his name for you from our group, he didn't attend meetings very often, but he was a very wealthy elderly man and he bought most of the books that they had banned from Canada at one time and we distributed that by mail and by other means, it didn't make any difference how, we sent them to the city council and mayor of Inglewood, mayor of Hawthorne, everybody got a copy of some type of Marxist book. I will try to find the name. I can't recall at this time the name of the person but he did spend over a thousand dollars, I believe it was $1,500 that he sent the check for to the Canadian Communist organization to buy these books and, as I say, they were distributed in the district and those that were not distributed were sent to this bookstore. Anything else on that, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. I would like you to tell the committee now when it was that you terminated your connection with the Communist Party.
Mr. WEREB. In the latter part of 1947 I believe that I was going about 5 nights a week against the advice of my physician, I just couldn't give up, and I just wouldn't give up, and I kept going to these places and I paid taxicabs for most of the members that had no transportation, took them to meetings and brought them home and my hours were sometimes I would say from 7:30 in the evening and my own personal working hours from 7:30 in the evening, sir, until 1 or 2 o'clock in the morning, after that would be possibly 2 hours of report writing immediately because I never went to bed until I wrote my reports and finally I had 1 attack of this coronary thrombosis that laid me up about 3 weeks, I went back again after that, sir, and I had a very serious one and afterward and the doctor said it is either that or he says I don't know what you are doing but you certainly aren't yourself, I have known you for many years, and on the advice of my physician at the last party I had to leave, and I slowly began to drift out. I attended less, I paid less attention to everything I had done. I did it that way in order not to uncover myself or my usefulness to my Government in case, so up until the time of the Smith trial I was not in the eves of the party known as, shall we say, as the People's World put me "memory machine," or stool pigeon. In the early part of 1948 my health was still very bad and Mr. Houston, John Houston, whom I have mentioned as our club chairman, came to my home and wanted me to sign up, that is, stay in the party, he was alone when he came and I told him, you know I can't partake fully, I just can't go on the other way, and I played the part of a very broken man, financially and physically, so I believe that I did receive 3 months' subscription free from the People's World as a gift. That just about ended it until the Smith Act, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1859 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Moulder?
Mr. MOULDER. I have no additional questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I suppose, Mr. Chairman, you are going to express the thanks and appreciation of the committee to this fine gentleman.
Mr. DOYLE. You do it so much better than I do, I will be glad to have you do it.
Mr. SCHERER. I think the testimony of Mr. Wereb speaks for itself. He has rendered to his country and now to this committee a fine and outstanding service. I wish there were more Americans like him and we want to congratulate you and express to you the thanks of the UnAmerican Activities Committee and the Congress of the United States for this fine patriotic service at great personal sacrifice to yourself.
Mr. WEREB. May I thank you, sir, and I wish to thank the people of the United States for the opportunity that I have had for serving. I was only too happy to. Of course I am getting a little bit old for anything but at any time I can serve this committee or any organization representing the free Government of the United States, I will be very happy to serve.
Mr. DOYI. Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing, if all over the country men such as this witness would enter into an attitude of mind toward our Government which makes this witness happy and contented to serve in terms of real financial sacrifice such as he did? Isn't that the spirit that our Nation was born with and isn't that the spirit our Nation needs really when you come down to it, a spirit of placing our national welfare against our own personal, material gain. In other words, the Nation will only be as strong as we citizens are willing to make it by virtue of being willing to give something to our country instead of trying to tear it down.
Mr. SCHERER. Here is a man if it were possible certainly deserves a Congressional Medal of Honor.
Mr. WEREB. Thank you, sir, and I am sorry if I have been in some way inacceptable or some of my words might not have meant what I meant to say and I repeat, any time in the future you wish to call on me I will be happy to do anything I can. Thank you. (Whereupon the witness was excused.)
Mrs. MARTHA HARD. My counsel has not arrived this morning and he is due to come when he is through with his prior appointment. I would like to request that I not be called until he comes.
Mr. DOYLE. We will be glad not to call you until he comes provided he comes in time. You are subpenaed to be here and if you have arranged for your counsel to be here, he is expected to be here on time.
Mrs. HARD. I would like to point out, Mr. Doyle, that my counsel and I were, I was called for yesterday, my counsel and I were here all day yesterday and we waited. We were told we weren't to be called yesterday afternoon and we were here until a quarter to 6 yesterday evening, and I will be very happy to come as soon as he arrives and that should be any moment.
Mr. DOYLE. That is very good. Your counsel is familiar with the problems of either court appearance or a hearing appearance and that subpena continues from day to day until it is possible to be 1860 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA heard. That applies to congressional committees as well as to any other hearing, whether in court or a congressional hearing, but we will try to cooperate of course as we always do. But we expect your counsel to be here and if there is any question about his being here I suggest you call him on the phone and tell him we are ready for him. We began here at 9 o'clock this morning.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. John Houston.
Mr. DOYLE. Will you please raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?
Mr. HousToN. I do.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. TESTIMONY OF JOHN WATERS HOUSTON 