Miss ROBERTS. My name is Marguerite Sanford. My professional name is Marguerite Roberts.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your maiden name?
Miss ROBERTS. Smith.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born?
Miss ROBERTS. I was born in Clarks, Nebr.; C-l-a-r-k-s, Nebr.
Mr. TAVENNER. You state that Roberts is your professional name ?
Miss ROBERTS. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what is your profession ?
Miss ROBERTS. I am a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been a screen writer?
Miss ROBERTS. About 19 years, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time have you engaged in your profession here in Hollywood ?
Miss ROBERTS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you come to Hollywood ?
Miss ROBERTS. Late in 1926 or early 1927.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state briefly what your educational training for your profession has been
Miss ROBERTS. Yes, I will. I went to grade school in Clarks, Nebr., Pilger, P-i-l-g-e-r, Fullerton, F-u-l-l-e-r-t-o-n, and a year's high school in Fullerton, Nebr., and then I finished high school in Kersey, Colo., K-e-r-s-e-y. Then I had about 6 months at business college and that's all.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your record of employment, briefly
Miss ROBERTS. I have been working summers since 1 was 14; that's kind of long.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us take since 1926 when you came to Hollywood.
Miss ROBERTS. I worked as a secretary for a couple of years, then I worked as a reader in the story department of Fox Film Corp.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you employed as a reader?  1667 I sold a story and they gave me an opportunity to do the screen play, which I did, and I have been a writer since then. (At this point Representative John S. Wood left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. What are some of the screen credits you have reMiss ROBERTS. About 6 months. ceived as a screen writer?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, there are very many. May I confine myself to the last 121/2 years, when I have been at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I did not intend to ask you for all of them. Some of the principal ones.
Miss ROBERTS. All right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just those that you choose to name, that we may have a little more information with regard to you. years at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer: EsMiss ROBERTS. The last 12 cape, Ziegfeld Girl, Soniewhere I'll Find You, Dragon Seed, Sea of Grass, Desire Me, If Winter Comes, The Bribe, Ambush, and they have just finished shooting Ivanhoe. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Miss ROBERTS. I have been continuously employed at the studio for 121/ years and naturally I worked on other things that I did not receive screen credit on.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is the desire of this committee to investigate and to look into the matter of Communist infiltration in Hollywood. You have been prominently identified with the industry over a considerable period of years and the committee would very much like for you to tell it what you know about Communist infiltration in Hollywood, if you will.
Miss ROBERTS (after conferring with counsel). I decline to answer that question on the ground that it violates my rights under the first and fifth amendments of the Constitution. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Miss ROBERTS. However, may I say something else ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, proceed. 
Miss ROBERTS. I am not a member of the Communist Party. I believe in the constitutional form of government of the United States. I will fight for my country against any other country. I wish to make that clear.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand you are not a member of the Communist Party from your statement. ROBERTS. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of the testimony here yesterday Mr. 
Miss Martin Berkeley stated that you were a member of the Communist Party and belonged to a cell with which he was connected, or rather a group of the Communist Party with which he was connected.
Mr. WALTER. When was that, Mr. Tavenner? 
Mr. TAVENNER. The year was not exactly fixed by the testimony. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. But when Mr. Berkeley was testifying regarding that matter he was speaking of fraction meetings with minority groups which meant Communist Party members who were in organizations relating to minority groups. If you will just wait a moment I will try to identify that a little more fully. In the course of his testimony, relating to you and others about attending fraction meetings, Mr. 81595--51-pt. 5---3  Berkeley said that these fraction meetings ran over a period of time. Jerome Chodorov, one of the authors of My Sister Eileen, was a party member, Lester Koenig, who is now an associate producer, Roland Kibbee and Marguerite Roberts, wife of John Sanford, a writer, Morton Grant, Melvin Levy, Allen Boretz, coauthor of Room Service, and HIy Kraft were members. Now, I think that sufficiently identifies the group that would enable you to answer the question as to whether or not Mr. Martin in so testifying was telling the truth, so far as you were concerned. When I said "Mr. Martin," I meant to say "Mr. Martin Berkeley."
Miss ROBERTS. Well, I decline to answer on the grounds stated before, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand that you state you are not now a mem- ber of the Communist Party.
Miss ROBERTS. My exact words were, "I am not a member of the Communist Party."
Mr. TAVENNER. You are speaking in the present tense.
Miss ROBERTS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you will not answer the question as to whether or not Mr. Martin Berkeley was correct in his testimony ?
Miss ROBERTS. I decline to answer on the grounds stated before,
Mr. Tavenner. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a member of a fraction meeting of the Communist Party ?
Miss ROBERTS. I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on Sunday, the day before the committee went into session ?
Miss ROBERTS. I decline to answer on the grounds stated before.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party yesterday?
Miss ROBERTS. I decline to answer on the grounds stated before, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS this position that you now take, namely that you are not a member of the Communist Party now, just merely a cloak or a new dress that you are wearing today, especially for this occasion, your appearance before this committee?
Miss ROBERTS. Definitely not, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you cease to become a member of the Communist Party?
Miss ROBERTS. I decline to answer that on the grounds previously stated, sir. (The witness conferred with her counsel.) And I have given no testimony that I ever admitted being a Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. But there is evidence here by Mr. Berkeley that you were a memberMiss ROBERTS. I decline to commentMr. TAVENNER. Which you have not denied.
Miss ROBERTS. I decline to comment on Mr. Berkeley's testimony on the grounds stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think in the light of your explanation that you are not willing to testify as to whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party yesterday, though you are maintaining that  1669 you are not a member of the Communist Party now while you are sitting there, that I should ask you-I think it is fair that I should ask you whether you propose to be a member of the Communist Party when this committee has ceased its investigation here in Hollywood and has returned to Washington.
Miss ROBERTS. Definitely not.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle, any questions ?
Mr. DOYLE. Were you ever a member of the Communist Party or any fraction thereof?
Miss ROBERTS. I decline to answer, sir, on the grounds stated above.
Mr. DOYLE. You have had a very distinguished career and prosperous career in your profession. Have you ever had called to your attention the Federal statute under which this committee is charged with making an investigation of subversive conduct in America?
Miss ROBERTS. Yes; I understand you are a legal committee, a legally constituted committee.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, that wasn't quite my question. Naturally, your attorney will tell you that. because he knows it is. I assume that you are giving the answer that he told you.
Miss ROBERTS. Oh, no, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. That is, that he has advised you it was a legal committee, but now I am not asking you that question. Do you know the purposes of this committee which is questioning you today ?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, I believe the stated purposes are to show subversive influences in Hollywood and on the screen; is that it ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that yourMiss ROBERTS. That is my understanding. 
Mr. DOYLE. You mean that our job is to show that?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, or to investigate it.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, that is substantially correct, but not limited, I assure you, to Hollywood.
Miss ROBERTS. Well, that is the place that touches me.
Mr. DOYLE. We are not particularly aiming at just Hollywood. We are aiming at subversive people and programs wherever they exist in our country. We are not picking on Hollywood, except that we have plenty of evidence that there have been and maybe are now dangerous elements in Hollywood. For instance, we had testimony the other day that there were fat cows in Hollywood from whom money was being taken, and now just to give you thatMr. COHN. You are not implying that Miss Roberts is a fat cow ?
Mr. DOYLE. Oh, no.
Mr. COHN. I didn't think so.
Mr. DOYLE. I don't think you have been in the hearing room before today, have you?
Miss ROBERTS. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. So I thought I would make it clear to you that we are not undertaking to pick on Hollywood. That was never mentioned in the bill. The statute, Miss Roberts, even goes to the point of saying we shall investigate subversive and un-American propaganda that might emanate from some foreign country into our country, as well as domestic. Did you ever read the constitution of the Communist Party I
Miss ROBERTS. No, sir. 1670 
Mr. DOYLE. Did you ever read the by-laws of the Communist Party?
Miss ROBERTS. NO, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you ever see in any literature of the Communist Party, if you ever read any, any pledge of allegiance to the United States of America?
Miss ROBERTS. I am not familiar with that sort of literature; I'm sorry.
Mr. DOYLE. I know you must be widely read, because you have liad such success in your own profession, and, naturally, when you claim the benefit of the fifth amendment, for which claim we do not criticize you-I want you to realize that-nevertheless, when you claim that protection on the theory that you might incriminate yourself, I, as a lawyer and a member of the bar-you have a very able lawyer by your side
Mr. COHN. Thank you.
Mr. DOYLE. I have come to inferentially, at least, accept that which shows in our records that, generally speaking, a person who claims that privilege either at that time is a Communist or shortly prior thereto was. I am not saying now or I am not inferring that you are or were, but I will say to you that our records show that, generally speaking, the persons that claim that privilege at the moment they claim it are Communists. Now, therefore, I want to ask you, if I may, a couple of other questions. Are you in sympathy with any of the objectives of the Communist Party in America?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, I don't know much about them, I must con- fess. I am really not a political student. I am a writer and I am not a political student.
Mr. DOYLE. I realize that. 
Miss ROBERTS. But I have told you that I believe in the Constitution of the United States, and if any Communist beliefs run contrary to that, then I would be against them; yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Then I take it that you approve the purposes of this committee in uncovering subversive attacks against our form of government ?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, sir, I think you have done quite a bit of harm to us.
Mr. DOYLE. In what way?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, I don't think you really have uncovered any subversive acts, and no one has seriously alleged that there has been any Communist propaganda in the pictures, and a lot of people really have suffered a lot by this. I honestly think that the bad outweighs the good. That is my personal opinion.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, then, of course, that answer indicates to me that you have been following very closely the course of the hearings, or else you wouldn't feel qualified to give an opinion; is that correct? (At this point Representative John S. Wood returned to the hearing room.) 
Miss ROBERTS. Well, in Hollywood-I am listening to the radio. We haven't a television, but I listened to a few of the questions.
Mr. WooD. I will inform my distinguished colleague that he has violated the rule of 5 minutes-7 minutes, in fact. 1671 
Mr. Do E. I will have to desist further questioning. Thank you. 
Miss ROBERTS. Thank you.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson. 
Mr. JACKSON. Miss Roberts, are you currently employed ?
Miss ROBERTS. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Where?
Miss ROBERTS. At Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. 
Mr. JACKSON. What was your last screen credit, Miss Roberts ?
Miss ROBERTS. The last one was Ambush-oh, no. Soldiers Three. I forgot that when I was giving the list. I kind of wanted to.
Mr. JACKSON. You have stated, I believe, that you are not now a member of the Communist Party ?
Miss ROBERTS. I have stated that I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. But you have declined to answer the question as to your possible previous membership in the Communist Party ?
Miss ROBERTS. That is true.
Mr. JACKSON. Proceeding on the knowledge that the Communist Party has in the past not issued membership cards, I should like to ask you if you will be a Communist when you leave this room or tomorrow ?
Miss ROBERTS. NO, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. You have no intention-in other words, you repudiate communism as a political concept ?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, yes, I do, because I am, as I have stated, a believer in this form of government, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. You do not believe that one can be a believer in the constitutional form as practiced in the United States and still be a practicing Communist?
Miss ROBERTS. Well, you know, that is a question that puzzles me, because I think that if that were true, Congress would pass a law outlawing the party, which it has not done.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, I might say that I imagine a great many Members of Congress have something of that sort in mind.
Miss ROBERTS. They have not yet done it.
Mr. JACKSON. That's correct. Now, you say that a lot of people have suffered as a result of this investigation. I should like to subS mit to you that a lot of people have-suffered because of their activities on behalf of the Communist Party that brought them before this committee.
Miss ROBERTS. I really-Mr. JACKSON. I say, rather than blaming your present appearance before the committee on the committee, because I am certain that no member or no distinguished member of this committee has ever recruited anyone into the Communist Party, I submit to you that most of the witnesses who appear here are here not because of anything the committee has done but rather because of their own activities on behalf of the Communist Party. Don't you believe that is the case?
Miss ROBERTS. That is your opinion, sir; it isn't mine.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, it is an opinion that is shared in many quar- ters by a great many Americans. This business of trying to blame all of one's griefs, so far as the witness chair is concerned, upon the committee completely is blinding one's self to the fact that their ac- 1672 tivities are what have brought them here to the committee, not anything that the committee has done. That is the same as a murderer pleading that the judge and jury have brought him into disrepute. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter, any questions ?
Mr. POrTER. Miss Roberts, you stated that the Communist Party has not yet been outlawed, and that is true, to a certain extent. However, the courts have upheld the so-called Smith Act where, as you are familiar, I'm sure, some top Communist leaders, the leaders of the Communist Party of the United States, have been found guilty, of advocating the overthrow of our Government by force and violence. This advocation was done through their work in the Communist Party. It is based upon that, and it is certainly the general conception, that the Communist Party is not a political party and the Cormnunist Party, rather, is an arm of an international conspiracy which is dedicated not only to the overthrow of our form of government but dedicated to the overthrow of all existing governments until communism is the ruling government, ruling ideology in all countries. I regret that you seek not to cooperate with the committee. When stating that you are not now a member of the party, it leaves the committee and American people-it puts them in sort of a contradictory position, as far as your testimony is concerned. I have nothing further, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Counsel, do you have any further questions of the witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. I understood you to state that this committee, so far, has not been able to disclose any actual act of subversion in Hollywood, and I understand that was a criticism of this committee, that it would undertake to investigate a matter of this kind.
Miss ROBERTS. No criticism, sir; comment only.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a comment? 
Miss ROBERTS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I would like, in that connection, for you to consider the fact just as pointed out by one of the members of the committee, that there has been considerable evidence before this committee over a long period of time of the aims and objects of the Communist Party with regard to its purpose and its intention of the overthrow of the Government of the United States by use of force and violence, if necessary, and the fact that it has been shown through .numerous witnesses during the course of this investigation that hundreds of thousands of dollars have been contributed by persons in your industry who are members of this party, and that that was one reason why the Communist Party has endeavored to infiltrate your industry, to tap this great source of revenue for the purposes of the Communist Party. Now, do you not think, and will you not be fair enough to state, that that is a matter of vital interest to the people of the United States?
Mr. COHN. May we confer for a moment, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Certainly.
Miss ROBERTS. I wish to make clear that I do not intend criticism of the committee, and I think you brought out in your testimony that  INDUSTRY 1673 there has been no Communist propaganda in pictures and that's what I was saying. And I feel that you have been doing the job you have been sent here for, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you not think that it is and should be the duty of this committee to advise the Congress of the United States if such a thing is going on in the industry, as I have just mentioned, that of making large -contributions, possibly into the millions, for the advancement of the cause of the Communist Party in this country?
Miss ROBERTS (after conferring with her counsel). Yes, sir, if you find that, I think you should tell them.
Mr. TAVENNER. That has been developed in the course of this investigation and we would like your help in connection with it. I would like for you to tell this committee what you know about the tapping of this great source of wealth here by the Communist Party for Communist Party purposes.
Miss ROBERTS. I have no knowledge of it, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you take any part in it, in the sense of making donations or contributions, or the payment of dues to the Communist Party?
Miss ROBERTS (after conferring with her counsel). I decline to answer on the grounds stated before, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Does any other member of the committee have any questions?
Mr. JACKSON. One short question. 
Mr. WooD. I yield to Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. I believe you said this committee has, to the best of your knowledge, not uncovered any evidence of subversion during the course of its investigation.
Miss ROBERTS. Subversive acts.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you consider the removal from the top secret files of the United States Government, their photography and transmittal to Soviet agents to be an act of subversion ? 
Miss ROBERTS. Yes. 
Mr. JACSON. Have you ever heard of an individual called Alger Hiss ?
Miss ROBERTS. Yes; sure.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you know that Alger Hiss was before this committee, that much of the work that went into his trial and conviction came as the result of work done in this committee ?
Mr. CoHN. May we confer a moment, Mr. Jackson? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Miss ROBERTS. I wasn't referring to any of your activities outside of Hollywood, sir. I know very little about them.
Mr. JACKSON. The nature of the Communist Party is subversive. Whether that subversion takes the form of subverting the minds and souls of men, or whether it consists of transmitting secret files, the nature of its work is still in my humble opinion subversive. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Does any other member have a question that they would like to ask the witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Is there any reason why the witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance, Mr. Counsel? 1674  
Mr. TAVENNER. It's all right to dismiss her.
Mr. WOOD. It is so ordered. Whom do you have ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Michael Wilson.
Mr. WOOD. Is Michael Wilson in the courtroom? Are you Michael Wilson ?
Mr. WILSON. I am.
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn, please? You do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. WILsoN. I do.
Mr. WOOD. Be seated. TESTIMONY OF MICHAEL WILSON, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT W. KENNY 