Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I understand the amplification system is not operating. The press sitting immediately behind me are unable to hear anything.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Counsel, you may proceed.
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Chairman, if I may, sir, before this witness begins his testimony I would like to call one matter to the attention of the chair and counsel, which I think the subcommittee should know about. Mr. Berkeley last night received a phone call at his home in Pacoima, Calif., threatening him and his family if he appeared here today and gave evidence disclosing names of members of the Communist Party which had not been known or disclosed prior to this session. This was the third of such phone calls that the witness has received in the course of the past week. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been advised of these. I call this to the attention of the subcommittee at this time to ask and enlist the aid of the subcommittee in bending every effort and influence that it has to protect this witness from any reprisals or sanctions that may be visited upon him. I have called this to the attention of counsel, also, for the committee last night.
Mr. WooD. The full forces and power of the American Government will be utilized to protect this or any other witness who appears before this committee to give testimony in connection with its operations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, there has been no subpena issued for this witness, but in light of the situation which has just developed I suggest that a subpena be issued and that this witness be kept under subpena for a period of time.
Mr. WooD. It will be so directed.
Mr. TAVENNER. I suggest that merely as a protection to the witness.
Mr. WooD. Yes, I understand.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state your full name, please, sir.
Mr. BERKELEY. My name is Martin Berkeley, B-e-r-k-e-l-e-y.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Berkeley?
Mr. BERKELEY. I was born in Brooklyn, New York, August 21,1904.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. BERKELEY. At 13208 Wentworth Street, Pacoima, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in California?
Mr. BERKELEY. Since January 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee, please, in a general way what your educational background has been ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I went to the public schools of New York City. I attended Brooklyn Boys' High School and Dickenson High School in Jersey City, from which I graduated. I went to John Hopkins University and Columbia Extension School.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. BERKELEY. I am a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee briefly what your experience as a screen writer has been ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I have been a screen writer since 1937. have done 18 or 20 pictures. I My employment, for the most part,  1577 has been in two studios. I was employed almost without interruption for 10 years by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Twentieth CenturyFox. At Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer I wrote the Dr. Gillespie pictures which followed the Dr. Kildaires. At Twentieth Century-Fox I wrote Shock, Smokey, Green Grass of Wyoming, a picture called Sand, and Kangaroo, which is still to be released. It was made in Australia. I have a picture going into production within the next 10 days at Universal called Great Companions with Dan Dailey in Technicolor, and that is all that have been made.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to your entrance into the field of screen writing what was your record of employment, briefly ?
Mr. BERKELEY. After I left college I went into business for a short time. I became an actor. I then started to write, had two plays produced on Broadway. After the first play I was brought out here, in January of 1937, by Columbia Pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Berkeley, are you appearing here in response to a subpena of this committee?
Mr. BERKELEY. No, sir. I am here as a voluntary witness to cooperate fully with this committee and give this committee and the country all the help that I can. In April my name was mentioned by cooperative witness Richard Collins, and I sent a very silly telegram to the committee after I received that wire. I charged Mr. Collins with perjury and said I had never been a member of the Communist Party, which was not true. I was not at that time a member and have not been for many years. Why I sent the telegramI did it in a moment of panic and was a damn fool.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since that time you have determined that you will aid this committee in every possible way?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. Since 1943 I have consistently fought the Communists in this town.
Mr. TAVENNER. Because of your experiences both within and without the Communist Party in the Hollywood area, do you consider that you are in a position to give this committee needed information?
Mr. BERKEEY. I think so, sir; very much so.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe we should start back with your original entry into the Communist Party. Will you tell us where that occurred ?
Mr. BERKELEY. In 1936 in New York City, shortly before the election, an old friend of mine, Mr. Fuller, who was a director in the theater, knew that I was very much interested in the anti-Nazianti-Fascist movement; that I was interested in the growing tradeunion movement of the country, suggested that I go to a meeting with him. I did. The meeting was held at Fourteenth Street and Seventh Avenue on the second floor. There was a sign on the windows of the building in which the meeting was held. That was called the Patrick Henry Club.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that in the city of New York?
Mr. BERKELEY. That was in the city of New York. There were many speakers that night, much talk about the election. I discovered that it was a Communist Party meeting. I did not join that night. I went back the following week, listened some more, played some ping-pong there and joined the party. 1578 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any particular club at that time ?
Mr. BERKELEY. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or unit of the party?
Mr. BERKELEY. I was kept in that particular Patrick Henry Club of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the names of any of the other members of that group?
Mr. IERKELEY. I do, sir. The chairman of our group, which, at the time I joined, we had about 75 members and within 6 weeks we lad approximately 175 members and it then split up and took some more loft buildings, but the head of the group was Jim Thompson, who was either a brother or a cousin of Robert Thompson, one of the convicted top Communists. Also in the group was Isadore Schneider, editor and contributor to New Masses. William Browder, who was a brother of Earl Browder. A man named Les Abenson, who at that time was a screen reader and who is now a very well known Broadway producer. I will say that most of the members of the group were workingmen. There were just a handful of intellectuals or artists in this particular group.
Mr. TAVENER. While a member of that group were you instructed or advised to join any organizations?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. I believe at that time I joined the League of American Writers, if that was the name at that time. It had so many names and it has been so many years ago I don't recall. But it was either the League of American Writers or the name before it or the name after it. I was also-at that time I had a play in New York, but I was employed in the story department of several studios, particularly at Paramount as a screen reader. The readers were very badly paid and they were kicked around and we had a just grievance, we wanted more money. They were paying us $2 a script then to read a script and make a synopsis, which might take as much as 4 or 5 hours. Along with the other members of the party, on instruction of V. J. Jerome, we organized the Screen Readers' Guild in New York. At a later date a member of the Screen Readers' Guild, the president, Lee Sabinson, came to Hollywood and established a branch of the Screen Readers' Guild out here. The offspring of it today is the Screen Analysts' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the names of any other persons who were members of the Screen Readers' Guild which you joined in the city of New York?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, there was Lee Sabinson, I mentioned him. He was the head of it. A man named Eddie HuebschMr. TAVENNER. I mean, in asking you that, I want to know who were members of that organization known to you to be members of the Communist Party.
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. There was Lee Sabinson, whom I have mentioned previously. SabinsonMr. TAVENNER. May I ask you to spell the name, please.
Mr. BERKELEY. His name is Lee, L-e-e, S-a-b-i-n-s-o-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think it would be helpful if you would spell all of these names as you mention them the first time.
Mr. BERKELEY. Thank you, sir. Readers' Guild, Lee was the president of the Screen On his return from Hollywood he enlisted in the  1579 Abraham Lincoln Brigade, was sent to Spain, got as far as Paris, changed his mind and came back and became a screen reader again. I haven't seen Mr. Sabinson since 1936, or thereabouts. I may possibly have bumped into him in New York on a visit but I can't recall it. Another member of the group was a man who is at present a screen writer in Hollywood and one of the most vociferous Communists we have in our guild. His name is Edward Huebsch, H-u-e-b-s-c-h. I don't know much about Mr. Huebsch except he is a Communist and a troublemaker. Also in the group was a man named Nicholas Bela, B-e-l-a, a Hungarian, who had been in the revolution in Hungary with Bela Kun. We received a great deal of cooperation at that time in the organization of the Screen Readers' Guild from Eve Ettinger, who at that time was an assistant in the story department at Columbia and who today is the story editor of that studio. I had talks with Miss Ettinger at a later date when I was in New York and Miss Ettinger told me that she had left the party, and I have every reason to believe that she was telling me the truth.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I call to your attention the fact that Eve Ettinger, the person identified just now by the witness, appeared a few weeks ago in executive session of this committee and admitted her Communist Party membership and at the time indicated and stated, also, that she had withdrawn from the party.
Mr. BERKELEY. I believe she has, from every possible indication. Through the work with the Screen Readers' Guild. and in order to publicize the work that we were doing, V. J. Jerome, who was in charge of the cultural work of the Communist Party, put me in touch with a man named Herbert Klein, K-l-e-i-n, who then was the editor or one of the editors of New Theater magazine. Later he made many excellent documentary films and after quarreling with the party politically was expelled from the party, and to the best of my knowledge and belief is no longer a party member.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Berkeley, were you present in the hearing room at the close of the session yesterday ?
Mr. BERKELEY. No, sir. This is the first time I have been here.
Mr. TAVENNER. You did not see the Herbert Klein who testified before the committee yesterday?
Mr. BERKELEY. No, sir. Is he a movie director or a picture writer ?
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the name Klein, the person to whom you refer?
Mr. BERKELEY. I believe his name is spelled K-l-e-i-n or K-1-i-n-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us further identifying information relating to the Herbert Klein to whom you refer as having been a member of this group in New York City in 1936 ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Counsel, it's 14 years since I have seen Mr. Klein. I met him organizationally twice and I haven't seen him since. I would hate to hang a man on identification like that. As I remember him, he was dark, of medium height. Both times I saw him he wore a dark suit.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have before me the morning paper which has a photograph of the witness Herbert Klein who appeared before the committee yesterday.
Mr. BERKELEY. May I see it, sir? 1580 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to look at it. You may look at it and see if it is the Herbert Klein to whom you have referred.
Mr. BERKELEY. No, sir, that is not the Herbert Klein to whom I refer.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned the fact that V. J. Jerome gave you certain instructions and directions. When did you first meet V. J. Jerome?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I would say I met Jerome about a week after I joined the party. The party was very anxious to contact anybody in the motion-picture business and I presume that when I filled out my application and gave my occupation that the card was filtered through the center to Jerome, or possibly Bill Browder, or Isadore Schneider, who was a writer, may have told Jerome. But all I know is that I was sent for and I met Jerome some place in Greenwich Village. I don't know what street it was, I don't know the address.
Mr. TAVENNER. While a member of the Communist Party in New York City did you become acquainted with John Howard Lawson ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I did. I met Lawson at a meeting with V. J. He was introduced to me as a nonparty member. I was told that he was very sympathetic with our aims and was very interested in seeing the Screen Readers' Guild grow and prosper, but that in spite of the fact that he was referred to as Comrade Lawson he was not a party member. Subsequently I learned that that was untrue.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what position V. J. Jerome held in the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY. I believe his title was chairman or commissar of the Cultural Commission of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the year in which you came to Hollywood ?
Mr. BERKELEY. 1937, approximately the 15th of January.
Mr. TAVENNER. After coming to Hollywood did you continue your affiliation with the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY. I did, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee the circumstances: under which you continued your Communist Party membership.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, it sounds a little bit like a B picture. Lester Fuller, whom I had known for many, many years before I joined theparty, when he discovered I was coming to Hollywood and didn't know many people out here, suggested that I contact a man named Guy Endore, who was not a party member, and Guy Endore would introduce me around town and see that I met people. The third day I was in Hollywood I was assigned to a picture and lo and behold Guy Endore was my collaborator. It was through Guy Endore, who then was not a member of the Communist Party but subsequently was, that I was invited to a meeting at the home of Frank and Sonia Tuttle.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what Frank Tuttle is that?
Mr. BERKELEY. That is Frank Tuttle, the director. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. I understand there is more than one Frank Tuttle, also.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, this is my friend, Frank Tuttle, who testified in Washington.
Mr. TAVENNER. And a director?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir.  INDUSTRY 1581 
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well, sir.
Mr. BERKE~LY. There were approximately 50 people at Mr. Tuttle's home, party people and nonparty people, and at this gathering I met V. J. Jerome again, and he was delivering a lecture that night on Trotskyism. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of your own knowledge the circum- stances under which V. J. Jerome was sent to Hollywood or came to Hollywood ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Jerome was sent to Hollywood to organize Holly- wood, to organize the talent groups, the actors, the directors, and so forth, writers, and to give what aid and assistance out of his long experience he could to the groups in the IATSE. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the functions that V. J. Jerome performed in carrying out that objective?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, V. J. addressed many meetings of party and nonparty people. He spoke on such matters as Spain, on Hitlerism, on Mussolini, on the labor situation; he spoke of the role of writers in the changing world; he made many such speeches and many such con- tacts with people. He was a rather diffident person when you met him and people liked Jerome. He was able to contact a number of people, recruit people to the party, gain financial support from people, I believe, who never became party members but were angels for many, many years, and I wish I knew who they were. He did a thoroughly good job. His job was so good that we are all here today because of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as a result of his work what occurred?
Mr. BERKELEY. As a result of the work that was done by Jerome, groups of actors were enlisted in the current squabble that was going on at the guild, inside the Screen Actors' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, before we come to a discussion of that, can you give us the names of persons known to you at the time, persons who later were known to you, to be members of the Communist Party who attended this first meeting at the home of Frank Tuttle which was being addressed by V. J. Jerome?
Mr. BERKELEY. There were approximately 50 people at the meeting. Looking back on the meeting I would say that approximately 20 of these people were later revealed to me in fractions or in party groups as members of the Communist Party. One of the most active there was John Bright, a screen writer whose wife, Josephine Bright, was an organizer in the Mexican section of this community.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell his last name, please.
Mr. BERKELEY. B-r-i-g-h-t. John Bright. His wife's name was Josephine Bright. I also met for the first time Lionel Stander, who later became chairman of the actors' fraction. With him was his wife-his then wife, Alice Twitchell. It is interesting to know that sometime later during the strike at the Hollywood Citizen News, for which I gave a benefit at my home for the striking newspapermen, at which we raised approximately a thousand dollars, I believe, to help the newspaper Guild, and I am very proud that we did, Stander was at this meeting and called me over into a corner and introduced me to Comrade Harry Bridges.
Mr. TAVENNER. You refer to Stander as the chairman of the actors' fraction, if I understood you correctly.
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. 1582 CO1IMMUiNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY By fraction, what do you mean?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well. a fraction is a group of party members-now, there were two kinds of fractions. here is an open fraction and there is a closed fraction. When I use the word "fraction" from now on, I mean a closed fraction at which only party members are admitted. The fraction is composed of Communists who have a common interest either in a mass organization in which they are functioning or a trade-union, a political party or such like. There were fractions of the actors, fractions of the writers, I presume fractions of the directors, though I have no knowledge of that; fractions in the Hollywood Ahti-Nazi League and other front organizations.
Mr. TAVE--NER. But in short, it meant membership in the Communist Party ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. J. Edward Bromberg and his wife, Goldie-Bromberg is spelled B-r-o-m-b-e-r-g; he is an actor-were also at the meeting. Present was Miss Madelaine Ruthven, R-u-t-hMr. TAVENNER. v-e-n, who later became organizational secretary for the Hollywood section; an actor named Victor Killian, K-i-1-l-i-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that the same person that testified before the Committee on Un-American Activities in Washington ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I believe it is, sir. I believe so.
Mr. TAVENNER. I possibly should have said, who appeared before the committee.
Mr. BERKELEY. I realize that. Also present was Don Gordon, an assistant story editor, I believe, at the time at one of the studios; I think RKO. I am not sure. He is here now. Perhaps he can tell you later. Lou Harris was there.
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, some of the persons present at this meeting, I understand, were not members of the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY. That's right, sir.
Mr. TAV XXER. I want to make it clear that I am asking you to name those who were members of the Communist Party, to your knowledge.
Mr. BERKELEY. Mr. Tavenner, I will not mention a name unless I am dead certain that this person was a member of the Communist Party, because I am not going to hang anybody that doesn't deserve it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then Donald Gordon, I understand from your testimony-Mr. BERKELEY. Don Gordon. M'r. TAVENNER. Don Gordon was a member of the Communist Party, to your knowledge ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. I met with him with the Screen Writers Guild. I attended a meeting of the Screen Writers Guild at which I met Don Gordon, and, subsequently, later met him at the meetings of the writers' fraction. AlsoMr. TAVENNER. You may proceed.
Mr. BERKELEY. Also there was Lou Harris and his wife, Vera. Lou later became a producer at Paramount. His name is spelled H-a-r- r-i-s. Herbert Biberman-I think you know how to spell that namethe director, was there with his wife, Gale Sondergaard, as well as Sonja Dahl, who, I believe, then was D-a-h-l, Dahl; I don't know whether she spells Sonja with a "y" or an "i". She was then secretary, I believe, of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League and later, I think, married Herbert Biberman's brother, Edward Biberman, and Edward  1583 Biberman was one of the organizers of the artists' union, which was part of the WPA art project. Those are all the people I can remember at that meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned the name of Lionel Stander.
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever attend a Communist Party meeting in his home ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I did, sir. There was a meeting called at the home of Stander at which V. J. Jerome was present that dealt with the matter of the struggle then going on in the Screen Actors' Guild. I don't know how familiar you are with that struggle. I am very happy to say that the situation no longer exists. (At this time Representative Francis E. Walter entered the room.)
Mr. BERKELEY. At that time the extras had no vote in the guild. They were second-class citizens, and the Communist Party, whether for altruistic purposes or whether because the ranks of the extras were proven to be more fertile field than among the more successful members of the profession I am not prepared to say, felt that the extras should be given some kind of a vote in the Actors' Guild. Well, today the extras are in their own guild and that situation is taken care of. At this fraction meeting-let me explain how I got to an actors' meet- ing. Jerome knew me from New York and he felt I was a fairly forceful person and got along pretty well with people, and he said, "I think you better get in there and help for a while and keep your eye on Stander. He is a screwball," which he is. Elliot Sullivan was at that meeting. He is also known as Ely Sullivan. I don't know whether he spells his name S-u-l-l-i-v-a-n or -a-v-a-n. Allen MatthewsMr. TAVENNER. Now, what is his occupation ?
Mr. BERKELEY. He is an actor. All these people were actors, Mr. Tavenner. Allen Matthews, a small part actor, was present. He later became very active politically and received an appointment by the State administration to the extermination committee in charge of exterminating bugs. Dorothy Tree, an actress, was also present, as was Marc Lawrence, and a young actor known as Maurice Murphy.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS the Marc Lawrence to whom you refer there the same person who appeared before the Committee on Un-American Activities in Washington and admitted his former Communist membership ?
Mr. BERKELEY. That is the same Marc Lawrence. I am very happy he admitted it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who, in describing the circumstances under which he became a member, stated that he was recruited into the party with the aid of Lionel Stander.
Mr. BERKELEY. That's right, sir. I believe that is completely correct. You see, Stander at that time was about the only so-called name that the party had in the profession. Those wereMr. TAVENNER. In the early part of your testimony relating to, I believe, the New York episode of your membership, you referred to an organization by initials. It has been called to my attention that you did not state the exact name and I would like for you to do it. You referred to the IATSE. I would like for the record to show the full name. 1584 
Mr. BERKELEY. That is the International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees, I believe. 
Mr. TAVENNER. If you have occasion to refer to it again it will be proper to refer to it by the initials. 
Mr. BERKELEY. Thank you, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. But I wanted the record to show at least once what it is. I believe I interrupted you as you were about-- 
Mr. BERKELEY. No. I was all through with the actors' fraction.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of your membership in the Communist Party did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Matt Pellman .
Mr. BERKELEY. I did, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he also known as Mike Pell ? 
Mr. BERKELEY. He was Matt Pellman, Mike Pell, and Max Apple- man or Applebaum. He was a professional party organizer who had been sent to the west coast to assist V. J. Jerome and had done much party work in Hawaii and China. He was later expelled from the party after a very bitter struggle and has become a very stanch antiparty man.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to meet him here in Cali- fornia?
Mr. BERKELEY. Oh, yes, sir. I met him with V. J. Jerome. We used to chauffeur him around quite a bit.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you enlighten the committee as to the reason for Mike Pell's presence in California?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, he was sent here to help Jerome organize Hollywood. There was a lot of territory to cover and a lot of work to do, and Mike Pell, which was the name I usually knew him by, was a very hard worker. He did more of the leg work. Jerome did more of the talking and sitting up nights and Mike did the job. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee, in its study of the problem facing us in Hollywood, has been anxious to determine just what the purpose of the Communist Party was in its extreme efforts in organizing the party in this area. As a result of your experience and association with it can you tell the committee briefly what the aims and objectives of the Communist Party were in this area ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, the aims, as I understood them from conferences, repeated conferences with Jerome, V. J. Jerome and Lou Harris and Mike Pell, were the organization of a Screen Writers' Guild, which we needed very badly. The second objective was to get rid of Browne and Bioff, the labor racketeers who were then the heads of the IATSE, who later served jail terms. Building an organization of extras, because, as I said before, they constituted the main body of actors. The formation of a Directors' Guild. Incidentally, I know nothing about the Directors' Guild. I was not involved in that job at all, except I know that that was one of the purposes of the party. Another task was to build a labor daily out here. They had the Western Worker, which was a very sectarian newspaper. To supply aid to Spain. To expand the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League into a national organization, which would have been done except for the Hitler-Stalin pact, and also the formation of a left-wing Democratic Party organization in Hollywood which flowered at a later date as the Motion Picture Democratic Committee.  1585 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was any office set up by the Communist Party from which to function in performing these various objectives?
Mr. BERKELEY. There was, sir. We had our offices in the Taft Building. Incidentally, the owners of the Taft Building, whom I don't know, did not know that they had a Communist Party headquarters in the Taft Building. The office was rented by Mike Pell under an assumed name and the telephone was also in an assumed name, and all there was in the office was-a little 8 by 10 office with a couple of files. I never did know why they had files there because the files were empty. We kept a bottle of Scotch there once in a while, but that was about all there was.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have spoken of the aims and objectives of the Communist Party generally in this area. I would like you now to tell the committee when and where the Hollywood section of the Communist Party was organized.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, sir, by a very strange coincidence the section was organized in my house. From the time I got out here in January the party grew pretty rapidly. Jerome was working hard, Mike Pell was working hard, Lou Harris was working hard, and all of us were working pretty hard to recruit members. And we felt-you see, at that time there was no real organization, you were a party member but you had no place to go and meet. There were no real groups. There were a few study groups but that's about all. It was felt that numerically we were strong enough to have our own organization, which was called the Hollywood section. In June of 1937, the middle of June, the meeting was held in my house. My house was picked because I had a large living room and ample parking facilities, it was out on Beverly Glen, which was out in the country, at least in those days, and my lease was up in two days. So we had the meeting at my house. And it was a pretty good meeting. We were honored by the presence of many functionaries from downtown and the spirit was swell.
Mr. WALTER. Is that "swell" or "smell" ?
Mr. BERKELEY. "Smell," I would say now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names of those who were in attendance at that meeting, who were members of the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, in addition to Jerome and the others I have mentioned before, and there is no sense in me going over the list again and again. I would like to get to the newer people, if I may. Eva Shafran, who was then, I believe, the educational director of the county, downtown, and who is now dead.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name, please ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I think it is spelled, the first name was Eva, I think it is spelled S-c-h-a-f-r-i-n. 1 I'm not sure, but I think that is how you spell her name. Also present was Harry Carlisle, who is now in the process of being deported, for which I am very grateful. He was an English subject. After Stanley Lawrence had stolen what funds there were from the party out here, and to make amends had gone to Spain and gotten imself killed, they sent Harry Carlisle here to conduct Marxist classes. He was at the meeting. 1 According to information in the files of the committee, spelling should be S-h-a-f-r-a-n. 1586  Also at the meeting was Donald Ogden Stewart. His name is spelled Donald Ogden S-t-e-w-a-r-t. Dorothy Parker, also a writer. Her husband Allen Campbell, C-a-m-p-b-e-l-l; my old friend Dashiell Hammett, who is now in jail in New York for his activities; that very excellent playwright Lillian Hellman; a woman named Herta, I think it is spelled H-e-r-t-a, Uerkvitz, U-e-r-k-v-i-t-z, who at that time was employed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in the research department. In addition there was Jesse Burns, a reader. I think that about wraps up those that I can recall. That was a long time ago.
Mr. TAVEXNER. Did 'you later obtain information that some of these individuals were made members of the Communist Party at large ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I did, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or rather members at large of the Communist. Party? 
Mr. BERKELEY. It's the same difference.
Mr. TAVENNER. Which of these persons whom you have named became members at large of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I will have to put it this way, sir. After this meeting I never saw Stewart or Parker or Campbell or Hammnett or Hellman at a party meeting. They were at that meeting at my house and I spoke to Jerome and Lawson at a subsequent date and I asked them where Stewart and Dash were-I was very fond of Dash Hammett-and he said that they had been assigned to a group known as party members at large. They were no longer assigned to any particular group in the Hollywood section and that I had seen the last of them as far as organizational matters were concerned. I imagine right now they wish they hadn't come in in the first place. There are throughout the country who are members at large of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you repeat that, please.
Mr. BERKELEY. I said throughout the country, in addition to these I have already mentioned, there are many other people who are members at large of the Communist Party. That is very important to. the party to have these members at large.
Mr. TAVENNE. Will you tell the committee what you mean by a member at large, or what the Communist Party meant by the expression or by the designation "member at large"? 
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, if you are pretty important and you don't. want to be exposed-well, suppose Congressman Jackson here decided to become a Communist, God forbid.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you pick somebody else.
Mr. BERKELEY. You are stuck with it. It would be pretty important that no one knew that such was thecase, and the party would probably not issue a formal book. You. would take your oath to the Communist Party, you would pay your dues to the Communist Party, you would take your directives from the Communist Party and you would function as you were told to function, but you would not go to meetings with other Congressmen, or otherwriters, or other members of the top echelon in the trade unions orthe arts. From time to time you might meet with a man like-I am sure these five writers I mentioned as members at large, they un-  1587 doubtedly met out here in secret with John Howard Lawson or in New York with V. J. Jerome, or a gentleman called F. Brown, who is a member, or was then a member of the Politbureau of the party. You would meet with these people and get your directions and instructions from the party and function, but you would have no contact with anybody else in the party for your protection and for the protection of the party and the collection of dues.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any action taken at this meeting at your home which you can now recall
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. We all promised to be good children and bring in a new member for the next meeting. We promised to work in the mass organizations and it was agreed that Harry Carlisle bad been fairly well exposed at that time as a Communist, to bring out here someone that nobody knew who would conduct Marxist classes. And they brought out, I imagine he is a pretty excellent teacher, his name was John Weber, W-e-b-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at this meeting discuss the problem of bringing out a person to teach Marxist classes ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Oh, we did. We had to have somebody to teach Marxism because if anything had happened to Jerome or Mike Pell there would be nobody there to tell us what to do or to instruct us in the finer points of Marxism.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand. But I wanted to make certain whether that action was taken at this particular meeting.
Mr. BERKELEY. That was, sir, at the second meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result of that action you say a Mr. WeberMr. BERKELEY. Mr. John Weber, W-e-b-e-r, who functioned as a teacher, both for party people and to work with nonparty groups and later became a very successful agent with the William Morris Agency. I doubt if he is there right now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you return to New York shortly after the meet- ing to which you have just referred?
Mr. BERKELEY. I did. I went to New York and up to Cape Cod and had a little vacation and then came back to Hollywood. 
Mr. TAVENNER. On your return were you assigned to any particular cell or group of theparty ? 
Mr. BERKELEY. I es, sir. By the way, everybody who has never been a party member calls it a cell. I have never heard it called a cell in the party-all the spy books call them cells, but they.are called groups, and I was assigned to a group which met at -the home of various members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the names of the persons in whose homes that particular group met?
Mr. BERKELEY. I do. I remember the first group very well. We had an actor in the group named John Miller.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will youMr. BERKELEY. Skins Miller.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you repeat the name, please?
Mr. BERKELEY. Miller, M-i-l-l-e-r, formerly of the famous vaudeville team of Miller and Mack. Skins Miller, and his wife, Patricia Miller. Also, we had a secretary named Leona D'Ambarey, who was a secretary at the studio, and her brother Bob. I don't know what his occupation was. I haven't the faintest idea. A young writer who was also in the group named Searle-I think it is spelled S-e-a-r-l-e, Searle; Kramer, 81595-51-pt. 4---12 1588 INDUSTRY K-r-a-m-e-r, he was a screen writer; and the son of Victor Killian, Mike or Michael Killian, K-i-1-l-i-a-n; and that is all I can remember of the original formal group with which I functioned.
Mr. TAVENNER. During this period of time was V. J. Jerome still in California ? 
Mr. BERKELEY. I think-I would have to consult my notes to check on that. I think V. J. was still here, or he left or was about to leave. There was-he was-he either had left or he was about to leave at this particular time, Mr. Tavenner. If you will give me a moment I will-I, would say that he had left or was so close to leaving you can say so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to his leaving did he give you any further directions as to Communist Party activities ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Oh, yes; you are quite right. He was still here, because it was while I was a member of this group that Jerome assigned me to work in the IATSE. At that time the IA was-they felt that they had no autonomy as a union, that their union leaders were corrupt-and they were-and the party went out using the just grievance of the union members to do a lot of recruiting and it was felt that I could be of some service to the members of the IA if I worked with a group of them therein. Actually, the work consisted of editing a throw-away newspaper. I believe we printed 10,000 of them at a clip or, rather, mimeographed them. I am not quite sure about it. We mimeographed some, we had some printed. It was called the Studio Voice, and the good comrades stood at the doors of the studios and distributed them. My job was to take whatever information I received from my comrades in the IA and the other unions and translate it into a pamphlet. It was a matter of editing. I had no knowledge of the situation, actually, myself, outside of what I had been told, not being a member of the IA. It was a matter of rewriting, mostly. There was the job of the Studio Voice, which, at the time, was was primarily one of attacking the leadership of the IA. It headed by Browne and Bioff, who both went to jail. It stirred up a great deal of controversy and, as a side light it is interesting to know that there was a great struggle going on in our little newspaper. The newspaper was about this big [indicating], sometimes four the name of the Compages, if we were flush, and it was issued under the munist Party. I mean, this was not a front, this was the name of Westparty, and there was quite a struggle going on to see whether the brook Pegler printed the news first about Browne and Bioff being our crooks and panderers and racketeers that they were or whether little newspaper got the news first. Sometimes we beat Pegler and and, besometimes Pegler beat us, but the average was pretty good,job I did tween us, we got rid of the gangsters. That was about the there. tMr. TAVENNER. NOW, you stated you were assigned to work in the IATSE by V. J. Jerome?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What other members of the Communist Party worked with you on that assignment? That is, persons known to you to be members of the Communist Party ? was
Mr. BERKELEY. I worked with a very small group. The group He was a headed by Jeff Kibre, K-i-b-r-e, I believe it is spelled.  1589 professional party functionary and a CIO organizer, who later became an official, I think, in the fishermen's union. We had a gentleman there named Norval Crutcher, N-o-r-v-a-l C-r-u-t-c-h-e-r; a man named Ed Gilbert; another worker named Robert Ames; and a chap named Irv Heschel, H-e-s-c-h-e-l. These were party members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you inform the committee as to the name of the craft with which each of these persons were affiliated ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I can't tell you, except that they were either painters or carpenters or grips of some kind. Now, maybe-it is very possible now, Kibre-I know he was not a member of any trade-union at that time because he was a party functionary. Crutcher was a member-he was a secretary, I believe, of a local, 638, 658-I don't remember the number or what the particular craft was; we have so many crafts in our business, and my connection with these men was very limited. I can't inform you any further, except that they were craft workers, painters, electricians, carpenters, and such like. All were workers with the exception of Kibre, who was a professional revolutionist.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you continue your work on this assignment given you by Mr. V. J. Jerome ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I imagine I got out about three or four issues of the Studio Voice, and then I was taken away from this job.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean, taken away?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, the Studio Voice was becoming pretty popular, and there were two reasons for taking me away, as a matter of fact, looking back on it. The goon that existed then in the IA-and I want to say this: Where I talk about the IA, I am talking about the IA as it existed then. I am not talking about the IA under my very good friend, Roy Brewer. That is a completely different story. I want that distinctly understood. They had a goon squad in the IAMr. TAVENNER. Now, just a moment. IATSE is an abbreviationMr. BERKELEY. Also IA. 
Mr. TAVENNER. TO begin with, so let us not abbreviate the abbre- viation. 
Mr. BERKELEY. The IATSE.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. 
Mr. BERKELEY. They had a goon squad, and the goon squad was following the boys who were picking up the literature and distributing it, and some of the boys were getting beaten up, and Jerome felt that it was quite possible that after crocking up some of the comrades they might find out where the sheet was being written and pay me a visit which might possibly blow open the situation in Hollywood, so I was taken out of the job of consulting with my comrades in the IATSE.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there a person by the name of Maurice Murphy who was connected in any way with that organization ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Maurice Murphy was a young actor-I mentioned him before in the actors' group-who became a paid functionary of the party at this time. He saw that the dues were collected, that the literature reached the proper sources for the meetings, and so forth. He worked very, very hard and at a subsequent date quit the job. 1590 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. You have told us that it was about the beginning of this work that V. J. Jerome left the California area.
Mr. BERKELEY. He did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who succeeded V. J. Jerome in the work of the party here? 
Mr. BERKELEY. Mr. John Howard Lawson took over the duties of V. J. Jerome. He was the grand Pooh-Bah of the Communist movement from that day, I presume, until this. He speaks with the voice of Stalin and the bells of the Kremlin. I won't go into any further character description of Mr. Lawson because there are microphones within' our room.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with an individual by the name of Bob Reed ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. Bob Reed was a member of the actors' fraction in New York City. He also had some connection with tradeunion work in the entertainment world in general, and Reed was also, as I recall it now, in charge of the Communist actors' work within the Federal theater project. He came out here to discuss the Federal theater project with the party members downtown and to consult with Lawson about the fact that the party was not recruiting important actors, and what was the matter with the party out here because they were getting bit players but they couldn't get important names, and I am happy to say that they were never able to get important names as far as the actors were concerned. 'Reed was out here very shortly and then went back to New York. I haven't seen him since that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. After the completion of your work with the IATSE were you assigned to any other section of the Communist Party or group of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I was assigned to a group which, by this time, con- sisted almost entirely of screen writers and their wives. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did it have a name or designation ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Not to my knowledge. The only name I remem- ber at all ever hearing of the party was the name of my first group, which called itself the Patrick Henry group, but never in Hollywood do I know of any group by the name-they may have had them. I just don't know about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were associated with you in that group?
Mr. BERKELEY. One of our leading members was a writer named Gordon Kahn, a former newspaperman and screen writer, one of the best newspapermen in the business; a writer named Maurice Rapf, R-a-p-f, who, I believe, is no longer in the business; a man who later became a successful playwright named Arnaud, A-r-n-a-u-d D'Usseau, D-'-U-s-s-e-a-u; and his collaborator, James Gow, G-o-w, not a Chinese; also in the group was Ring Lardner, Jr.; my friend Richard Collins; Budd Schulberg; his then wife Virginia Schulberg; the great explainer, Sam Ornitz; and his good wife, Sadie Ornitz. It was a very harmonious group of writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you have already-excuse me. Have you completed?
Mr. WILLIAMS (counsel for the witness). Yes, I have.
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you have already stated that John Howard Lawson took over the direction and control of the party after V. J.. Jerome returned to New York.  INDUSTRY 1591 
Mr. BERKELEY. That's right, sir, he did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Mr. Lawson have any particular lieutenants or aides or assistants in the work that he assumed ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. He was assisted, to the best of my knowl- edge, by Herbert Biberman and Lou Harris, both of whom I have identified.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know Viola Brothers Shore?
Mr. BERKELEY. I do. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What connection or affiliation, if any, did she have, to your knowledge, with the Communist Party ?
Mr. BERKELEY. She was a member of the Communist Party. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her husband's name?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, her then husband's name was Gleichman, G-l-e-i-c-h-m-a-n. He was known as Kelly Gleichman. I don't know his correct first name. He was known as Kelly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a person known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. BERKELEY. He was a member of the Communist Party and he was the-well, he succeeded Maurice Murphy in the job of organizational secretary of the party. He was a very hard worker. He took on a lot of responsibility and a lot of work away from Biberman, Harris, and Lawson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Shop?
Mr. BERKELEY.
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mr. BERKELEY. Were you acquainted with the Book of the Day Yes, sir. Tell the committee about that. The Book of the Day Shop was a book store on La Brea in Hollywood. It was in a former bungalow. The purpose of the book store was to sell books in front and distribute party literature in the back. They had teas at the book store at which cultural subjects were discussed. Once or twice they played jazz records there, but primarily it was a distribution point for literature, and the literature secretaries of the various groups in Hollywood went there the night of the meeting and picked up their little bundles of Stalin and Lenin and others and took them to their meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was in charge of that book store?
Mr. BERKELEY. The book store was presided over by Miss Susan Wells, W-e-l-l-s, who later married a gentleman I have already named, Arnaud DrUsseau.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of your Communist Party mem- bership did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Sidney Buchman? 
Mr. BERKELEY. I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. And his wife Bea Buchman?
Mr. BERKELEY. I know both Sidney Buchman and Bea Buchman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is her correct name Bea or. Beatrice?
Mr. BERKELEY. That I don't know, sir. I only know her as Bea. I assume it is a shortening or corruption of the name Beatrice. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you know, if anything, regarding the Communist Party affiliation of those individuals? 
Mr. BERKELEY. I know both Sidney Buchman and his wife, Bea- I understand they are since divorced; I am not sure, but she was his wife at the time-as members of the Communist Party. 1592 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you state to the committee anything regarding the circumstances under which they became members?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, Bea Buchman was very interested in the work of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League and was doing a good job in it. She became a member first, I believe. At a later date, she, I believe, recruited Sidney into the party. He is a writer-producer of great distinction in the industry. I was a member of a group with Mrs. Buchman and met in fraction meetings with Sidney at his home in Toluca Lake. He also was-I believe I am correct in this. If he wasn't the chairman of the committee he was a leading light of the. committee in charge of raising money to finance the book store.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the membership of the club that you-or group that you belonged to at the time you are speaking of ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, the groups varied, Mr. Tavenner. It is difficult to say whether you had 5, 10 or 15. It is a long time ago. Your groups ran, as a rule, about 15 members, of which you figured you would have 10 at a meeting. Then there was a period when things. were getting hot with the Dies committee. We had a tip the FBI was looking for us, and the group shrunk. We only had five left in the group for security reasons, so it is a little difficult to say, but it kept growing. The party kept growing out here.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, if the party kept growing and the size of your group or cell became fewer, what was the answer to that ? Were they split up ?
Mr. BERKELEY.
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mr. BERKELEY.
Mr. TAVENNER. They were divided. Into small groups? Like an amoeba, automatically. Well, as the result of that procedure were you as- signed to still another group ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I Was. I was assigned to a group in which wewhich was not as exclusively a group of writers alone. There were other people in the group of other professions.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names of the members of that group, whose names you can now recall, and who from your own knowledge were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BERKELEY. A writer in the group named Arthur Strawn, S-t-r-a-w-n; and a writer who later became a minor executive in the business named Michael Uris, U-r-i-s, he is the husband of Dorothy Tree; a short-story writer named Sonora Babb; Harold Buchman, Sidney Buchman's brother, who was also a member of this group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is he the same person who appeared before the committee in Washington the early part of these hearings ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I wasn't there, Mr. Tavenner, but I presume it was he. He was a member of the Screen Writers' Guild, as I recall his testimony, and I only know of one Harold Buchman in the guild, so I will make that assumption. Victor Shapiro, a publicist, was a member of the group, as was George Bassman, a composer, and his wife Kay. Bassman is spelled B-a-s-s-m-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned the name of Victor Shapiro.
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. SMr. TAVENNER. IS he the same person who was a member of the Democratic Central Committee of Los Angeles County ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. COMMUNISM RN MOTION-PICTURE' INDUSTRY 1593 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what position he took with regard to a resolution of the Democratic central committee supporting the United States position on the Korean question ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I only know what I read in the newspapers as far as Mr. Shapiro's work in this period goes. This is a prime example of Communist work in mass organizations. Here we have Victor Shapiro, a member of the motion-picture industry, functioning as, I believe, secretary of the county central committee of the Democratic Party and blocking a resolution offered by the Democratic Party itself in support of the action of our Government and of the United Nations for taking action against the Communists in Korea. It is a fine state of affairs when a man calling himself a Democrat, living a double life, actually a Communist, is able to stymie the central committee of our country's Democratic Party. I hope as a result of this that Mr. Shapiro's work, if he still is a member of that committee, is finished, because I am heartily in support of the action we are taking in Korea.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now will you proceed, please? I believe you gave us the name of George Bassman.
Mr. BERKELEY. Bassman was a composer. He later wrote-I believe he wrote some of the music for the play that was-the musical that was put on by the Hollywood Theater Alliance. I can't recall the name of it offhand. He was one of the men that worked on that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with his wife ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Kay? Yes, sir. She was also a party member.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I believe this is a convenient place for a break, if you desire.
Mr. WooD. The committee will stand in recess for 20 minutes. (A 20-minute recess was taken.)
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order. 
Mr. Counsel, are you ready to proceed ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. Very well. 
Mr. BERKELEY. Mr. Tavenner, may I say something? A number of people, including the press, have asked me whether everybody whose name I have mentioned is actually or was actually a member of the Communist Party when I was a member of the Communist Party, or whether I have mixed up the names of anyone in this list who was not a member of the party. I want to say for myself and for the press that any name that I mention here, unless I so identify it, that these people were members of the party. The expression I used before, "I didn't want to hang anybody," I simply meant that I wanted to pin-point it to be sure. I didn't want anyone to lose his job or to suffer any kind of reprisal for hearsay. I don't believe that will happen. I am sure, I am certain, I am under oath right now, and I have been fighting the Communists since 1942 or 1943, and I am certain of what I am saying. I just want to impress that on everyone. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I endeavored to make it very plain in questioning you that I was asking you for the names of members of the Communist Party who were known as such by you.
Mr. BERKELEY. I know you were, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. TO your knowledge.
Mr. BERmELEY. That's right, sir. 1594 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to give you any opportunity that you may want. to make any explanation regarding this matter that you desire. You have told the committee that you were transferred from one group to another on several occasions.
Mr. BERKELEY. That's right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many different groups were there of the Communist Party of which you think you were a member ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, there was the group in New York, and I would say exclusive of that I was probably in at least a dozen groups, exclusive, of course, of fractions in whose work I took part, which Was ofle of the reasons why I knew so many Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you at this time to give the committee the names of any other persons known to you personally to have been members of the Communist Party during the time that you were a member, which you have not already given us, -and in so doing to tell us as nearly as you can the circumstances under which you knew them to be members of the Communist Party.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, that is rather difficult, Mr. Tavenner. I have an enormous list here. I am afraid we would be here all day if I started to talk in terms of how I met them and where I met them. These people that I will name as having been in my group may have come into the group and stayed for one meeting and then shuttled out into another group or have come into the group and left town, may have stayed in the group for a"year after I left that particular group. All I will say is that I knew them then as party members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well, sir.
Mr. BERKELEY. A man named Lou Amster, A-m-s-t-e-r, a writer; a
Miss Isobel Lennart. L-e-n-n-a-r-t, who was a reader. I originally knew Isobel as a reader, as a member of the Screen Readers' Guild. Later she became a very, very successful screen writer at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Paul Jarrico was in a number of groups with me. That is J-a-r-r-i-c-o. A young actress named Frances Sage. There was a gentleman in the group with me for-well, a number of groups, named Bob Roberts, R-ob-e-r-t-s. Bob Roberts is a partner of John Garfield's; and his [Robert Roberts'] wife, Catherine O'Neal. I don't know which way she spells O'Neal. Dr. Leo Bigelman, I think it is B-i-g-e-l-m-a-n. I don't know how he spells his name. Bigelman. I saw his picture in the paper this morning.
Mr. TAVEXNER. In connection with the hearings that occurred here yesterday ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. Wilma Shore, the daughter of Viola Brothers Shore, also a Communist, and the wife of Lou Solomon, a writer and a member of the Screen Writers' Guild. A woman named Helen Slote. I think her name was spelled S-l-o-t-e. She was secretary of the party fraction in the Actors' Lab and I believe also a secretary to John Garfield. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not she appeared as a witness here yesterday ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I think she did, sir, with her husband.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know her present married name?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I don't know-I believe she must be still married to the chap she was married to when I knew them, I haven't heard otherwise. His name is Al Levitt. I think it is L-e-v-i-t-t--  1595. one or two "t's"-I don't know. George Willner, an agent. Mr. Chairman, may I take a moment or two here to talk about Mr. Willner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Be very glad for you to.
Mr. BERKELEY. His friendship affected my own fortunes. We have heard a lot of talk about how the industry has kept Reds out of work, and I would like to tell the committee how it kept myself, an antiCommunist, out of work. I was under contract with Twentieth Century-Fox starting in 1945. My agent at the time was George Willner. However, he did not secure me the position with Twentieth CenturyFox, but one of his associates, a non-Communist, did. I went to Fox. I did one job, as the result of which I secured a contract. When the war was over and the Duclos letter had split the party and it became possible for me to really function as an anti-Communist organiza- tionally, I went to George Willner and asked him point-blank if he was still a Communist, and he assured me that he was no longer a Communist, and, like a chump, I took his word for it. Taking his word for it cost me a hundred thousand dollars. When my contract was terminated at Twentieth Century-Fox, Willner was still my agent. He said, "Why don't you go away on a vacation, Martin ? You have been working for 10 years. Have some fun." I went back east, and my son's graduation from prep school, and had a lot of fun and spent a lot of money and stayed away for several months and called him up and asked him what was happening out here, and he said, "Nothing; it's quiet; it's summertime; things are slow; you know how it is," and I finally came back with my wife to Hollywood, opened up the house, and a strange thing happened. A writer employed for 10 straight years, writing commercial success. after commercial success, suddenly, for 19 months, finds he can't get a job. It didn't look right. I stayed with Willner's agency, theGoldston Agency-what I say bears no reflection at all on the Goldstone Agency because they were completely unaware of that fact that Willner was a Communist, and as soon as they found out they tossed him out on his ear. I stayed with Willner 9 or 10 or 11 months,. whatever it might be, looking for a job. Nothing happened. I finally changed agents. My agent says, "There is a funny resistance to you. I don't know what is going on. I can't get you a job." I changed agents again. My agent got me a job. Just about this time a friend of mine in the studios said, "I see you finally found a story you were willing towork on." I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "Well, I gave Willner scripts time after time to give to you to read and the answer always came back you didn't like the- script; you didn't like the assignment." I said, "I never received a script in all the time that Willner represented me from the time my contract was up with Fox." In other words, this man who had told me he was no longer a Communist had deliberately sabotaged me, kept me out of work for 19straight months by withholding scripts from the studios. After a while the studios would say, "If Berkeley is getting so high and mighty, we won't give him a script to read." As the result of the machinations of Mr. Willner, I had to cut my salary when I went back to work. Fortunately, however, I got on. 1596 a script that was a good script, and I am back in the swing again. At present I am employed, but Mr. Willner deliberately, directlyand I'll say this inside of committee or outside of committee, because I was an anti-Communist, because he was in a position to represent me-kept me out of work and cost me 19 months of salary.
Mr. TAVENER. Were you active in your opposition to the Com- munist Party during that period of time?
Mr. BERKELEY. I was, sir. I left the party-I imagine we will get to the actual mechanics of why and how I left the party later. I left the party around 1943. There was a war going on. It was a honeymoon between us and the Reds. There wasn't much to do about being an anti-Communist. As soon as I saw what was going on in the Screen Writers' Guild, as soon as I found that there were enough other men who were liberals who still did not want us to be Communist-dominated, we formed a committee called the All-Guild Committee. This committee had no official connection with the guild. It was a rump organization outside of the guild whose sole purpose was to get control of the guild board away from the Reds and return it to the membership. I was chairman of that committee at Twentieth Century-Fox from 1947 when we formed this committee until 1949 when I left Fox. My proxy is still held by the same gentleman who has held it since I gave it, Allen Rivkin. I want to say this, that due to the efforts of the All-Guild Committee, with the exception of one member whom I will name later, there are no Communists on the board of the Screen Writers' Guild today. We got rid of the rats; the other guilds are friendly to us; we are able to negotiate with the producers; we have a better contract than we ever had before; and Hollywood is a better place in which to live, let me tell you. I want to have you pay some attention to the men who helped form this All-Guild committee. In the past Mr. Brewer made a lengthy statement, for which I am very happy, of what his particular group did in driving the Reds out of the industry, and we writers have been under fire for years, and in many cases justly so, for the Communist control and infiltration in our guild, and I was one of those who infiltrated. I think that the entire industry owes a debt of gratitude to Allen Rivkin, who was chairman of the All-Guild Committee and who today is president of the Motion Picture Industry Council. I think we owe a great debt of gratitude to Art Arthur, a writer who is now executive secretary of the industry council; and to Leonard Spiegelgass; and to Karl Tunberg, the head of our guild; and to George eaton and Valentine Davies, Adele Buffington, and to all the others. We drove the rascals out of the guild, and they are never coming back in our guild again, I promise you. The other Red I remember, a woman called Ann Roth Morganby golly, I know I forgot to mention another name which is very important in connection with this. When we organized our guild way, way back, the secretary of the Screen Writers' Guild that was employed by the guild also was a member of the Communist Party and later became a member of the State Department, from which he was subsequently thrown out. His name was Charles Page. I believe succeeding Charles Page as executive secretary of our guild was another comrade, a woman known as Ann Roth Morgan. I think her last name is or was Morgan.  1597 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what her present married name is?
Mr. BERKELEY. I have heard her name is Richards-I believe her name is Richards. I am not certain of it and if I am correct-I believe her name is Richards and she is married to a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are correct in the name.
Mr. BERKELEY. So we had two executive secretaries in a row who were Communists. If I may jump ahead, the third executive secretary of the guild was also a Communist. I will get to him. Also in my group during this period was a writer named Harold Goldman and his wife Kathleen Goldman; an actress named Mary Virginia Farmer; also a director of a few pictures out here, the man who produced and directed Angel Street in New York and in which I had an interest, Shepherd Traube; another member of our group was Lorry Blankfort, B-1-a-n-k-f-o-r-t; and Albert Maltz. Also in our group were Dan James, J-a-m-e-s, and his wife Lilleth, who I believe are present today, and wrote the book of Bloomer Girl. The gentleman I have already mentioned, the husband of Helen Sloate, Al Levitt; a girl named Alice Goldberg, a secretary who subsequently married Ian McLellan Hunter; and George Willner's wife, Tiba, T-i-b-a. Tiba Willner was very, very active, and I believe-I'm not certain of this-has been a courier for the Comintern.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of having known these persons whose names you have given us as members of the Communist Party, either through having met with them in Communist Party meetings or in fraction meetings.
Mr. BERKELEY. That's right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that true with respect to all of the persons whose names you have just mentioned ?
Mr. BERKELEY. That's true.
Mr. TAVENNER. What fraction meetings did you attend? I know you will not be able to tell us that in detail, but give us a general description of those meetings and the purposes of them.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, we had a fraction of the Screen Writers' Guild. The guild fraction, especially in its early days, and you gentlemen are quite familiar with the struggle we had in the early days of the guild, we had the advice of Mr. Charles Katz, an attorney at law in this town, in our legal problems in the guild. Mr. Katz was a member of the party. Lester Cole, Ian McLellan Hunter, to whom I referred before, who was married to Alice Goldberg, John Wexley, W-e-x-l-e-y, the playwright. Marguerite Roberts, who is a writer at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, and the Charles Page I spoke about before who is no longer with the State Department. Fred Rinaldo, a writer, and his collaborator, Bob Lees.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether that is the same Bob Lees who appeared before the Committee on Un-American Activities in Washington ?
Mr. BERKELEY. It is, sir. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the room.)
Mr. BERKELEY. Albert Maltz, the writer. Now we come to the third member of the party who was also an executive secretary of my guild, William Pomerantz, who had been with the NLRB and who, on the recommendation of party members on the board, was entrusted with the job of guiding our guild through its struggle. 1598 INDUSTRY' 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know anything about the connection of William Pomerantz with the National Labor Relations Board, or any function of that Board, prior to his coming to California?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. He was a member of the Board, I believe, in the South. It may have been New Orleans, I'm not sure. I know he worked with the NLRB down South and he worked with them back East. He was under fire constantly for the stand he took. He was suspected of having sympathies too far to the left. Either about the time he was to lose his job with the NLRB, or having lost it, the comrades out here felt that he was an ideal man to move into our guild aid they promptly proceeded to move Pomerantz into our guild. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he what is known as a field examiner with the National Labor Relations Board?
Mr. BERKELEY. He was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether at the time he was a member of the Communist Party here in California that he was serving in that capacity, that is as a field agent of the National Labor Relations Board?
Mr. BERKELEY. Do you mean whether I know at the time he was working for the Government he was also a party member? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. BERKELEY. Sir, I cannot say to my own personal knowledge. I can only say that he was brought oiut here by the party to work in the guild, and was a party member when he got here because he was brought right into our fraction. I can presume from that that he was a party member before he reached California.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you be reasonably accurate as to the date when you first learned that he was a member of the Communist Party ? That is a very important matter and I don't want you to guess ats it. If you don't know I would rather for you to say so rather than to give an estimate.
Mr. BERKELEY. I would rather not guess, Mr. Tavenner. I believe you can consult the records of the guild, or I am sure the guild will furnish you the precise date we hired this man, because there was a very short time lapse between his employment by the Government and his employment by the guild. I wouldn't hazard a guess. I don't want to do any guessing and I know you don't want me to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know why his relationship with the Na- tional Labor Relations Board was terminated ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I would say, sir, I don't know. He never told me. It would all be hearsay and I would rather not-Mr. TAVENNER. It would not be hearsay if he told you.
Mr. BERKELEY. He did not tell me so; he didn't tell me so. Other people have told me so, and I don't want to repeat hearsay.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where William Pomerantz is now ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I understand a lot of people would like to know that.
Mr. TAVENNER. We are among them.
Mr. BERKELEY. Are you? I didn'tknow that. I don't know where he is. May I go on?
Mr. TAVENNER. Now if you will proceed.  1599 
Mr. BERKELEY. Another member of the fraction was Waldo Salt. We had a visitor from abroad named Joris Ivens, J-o-r-i-s I-v-e-n-s.
Mr. Ivens was a maker of documentary film who discussed the problem of making films under battle conditions before our fraction. By battle conditions I mean in Spain. Another writer who is now the TV story editor for a large company was Josef, spelled with an "f", Mischel, M-i-s-c-h-e-l; Carl Dreher, D-r-e-h-e-r, who was an engineer and a technician but for some reason which I have never understood worked for a time with the Screen Writers' fraction. Cyril Endfield, E-n-d-f-i-e-l-d, a writer-director; and a writer named Charles Leonard, no relation to Isobel Lennard, which is L-e-o-n-a-r-d; and Carl Foreman, that is spelled F-o-r-e-m-a-n. I believe he wrote the screen play of Cyrano de Bergerac and the Champion, and other very fine pictures. Arnold ManoffMr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you a question there. Does Mr. Foreman hold any position, to your knowledge, with the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I am glad you asked me that, sir, because that is very important. I said before that there was only one Communistlet me rephrase that. There is on the guild today only one man I know who was ever a Communist. This man has never, to my knowledge, disavowed his communism. His name is Carl Foreman, the man I just mentioned. He is the only one left on our board. I hope he appears here, sir, and clears himself because it will help me clear the guild and that is a job I want to do. A writer named Arnold Manoff, M-a-n-o-f-f; another writer named Richard Weil, spelled W-e-i-l; a writer Gertrude Purcell, Hugo Butler, Dalton Trumbo.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the particular interest of the fraction meetings, as far as you know, when you met with those individuals?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, the fraction meeting in the guild, it all depended on the particular period in which the fraction was in being, because in the beginning the fraction was organized for the purpose of organizing the guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, that covered the entire period of your membership in the guild?
Mr. BERKELEY. That is quite correct, sir; during many different issues; very many different members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any other fraction meetings which stand out in your recollection?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, there was a fraction dealing with minority problems, the problems of Negroes, Mexicans, Jews, Italians, for which a great deal of time and effort went.
Mr. TAVENNER. And again, by fraction meetings, I mean fraction meetings of the Communist Party.
Mr. BERKELEY. Of the Communist Party. Someone asked me where the name "fraction" came from, whether it was "faction," and I told this gentleman that if there was a faction you were thrown out of the party; that it is a fraction, which was called a fraction because it was a part of the whole.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, will you tell us about the work of those fraction meetings. 
Mr. BERKELEY. The fraction dealing with minority groups-and again, this ran over a period of time. Jerome Chodorov, one of the 1600 INDUSTRY authors of My Sister Eileen, was a party member, and Lester Koenig, K-o-e-n-i-g, who is now an associate producer; Roland Kibbee, K-i-b-e-e, and Marguerite Roberts, husband John Sanford, a writer, Morton Grant and Melvin Levy, L-e-v-y, Allen Boretz, B-o-r-e-t-z, coauthor of Room Service; Hy Kraft, K-r-a-f-t. I presume that is Hyman. I have always known him as Hy. His name is spelled K-r-a-f-t. Paul Trivers, a writer who later, I believe, was story editor for John Garfield; W. L. River; a musician known as Leon Becker, B-e-c-k-e-r; and Guy Endore, E-n-d-o-r-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like you to tell us a little more about the character of the work of the Communist Party through the fractions dealing with the minority groups which you are now discussing.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, it took various forms. There was the problem of the minority group in the picture, in the film, itself; in the story you were working on. In the past many minority groups were degraded, both in the theater and in pictures, and a great deal of time and study went into the problem of how to treat the minority group in pictures. The problem of a Jew, how he should be made up, how he should speak; the manner of the Negro, and quite correctly so; other work that was done-you see, things like the Scottsboro boys, they came under this particular group, and Guy Endore wrote a pamphlet through the work of this and other groups dealing with the Scottsboro case
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Berkeley, the committee has from time to time heard evidence relating to the Communist Party line and activity with reference to the Scottsboro trial. We had been under the impression or arrived at the conclusion that the Communist Party was exploiting that incident for the benefit of the Communist Party.
Mr. BERKELEY. I believe they were, sir, and I would like your per- mission to take that up a little later in my testimony, because it is pertinent, actually. to one of the reasons for which I left the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well.
Mr. BERKELEY. The exploitation of the Negro by the Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. There is an organization in Hollywood known as the Hollywood Theatre Alliance ?
Mr. BERKELEY. There was such an organization; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you come in contact with the work of that organization ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes. I worked-I attended a few meetings of the fraction of that organization around 1938 or 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you know the circumstances under which it was organized ?
Mr. BERKELEY. The Hollywood Theatre Alliance was organized directly by the Communist Party for the purpose of presenting socalled progressive or left-wing or anti-Fascist propaganda. I believe their first production, which was the one I couldn't think of before in relation to Mr. Bassman, was Meet the People, which was very successful both here and in New York. I attended a meeting of the fraction which helped organize the Hollywood Theatre Alliance, although I had no active part in the Theatre Alliance at all. As a matter of fact, I attended a meeting of this organization, and subsequently when there was talk of doing my Lincoln play, by that time there was no money left and the Lincoln play was never done. The leading spirits in the fraction were--  1601 
Mr. TAVENNER. And again, by fraction, you are referring to mem- bers of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. BERKELEY. Dues-paying members of the Communist Party. Mostly, actually, the members of this fraction were the men who helped organize the show and put it on; writer, director, and so forth. Edward Elisku, E-l-i-s-k-u, the writer, was a member of this group and very active in the show itself. Incidentally, it was a very amusing show. Robert Rossen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is he the same Robert Rossen who appeared before the Committee on Un-American Activities, as far as you know ?
Mr. BERKELEY. He is, sir. Edward Chodorov, C-h-o-d-o-r-o-v. Incidentally, he was the first producer I worked for in town, and the man I went with was Guy Endore, to go way back early this morning. He is a well-known playwright and producer. And Henry Blankfort, a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS he the same individual who appeared before this committee yesterday? 
Mr. BERKELEY. He is, sir. I saw his picture in the paper, and there is no doubt in my mind. Danny Dare, producer and director who has worked for several of the major studios in both capacities and, I believe, is now working on television. Please understand, I can only take you up to 1942 or 1943, that period. Many of these people may possibly have left the party since then. At this time these people were party people. Bernard Vorhous, V-o-r-h-o-u-s, a director. Jay Gorney, G-o-r-n-e-y, who is a writer and a lyricist. Another writer, Ben Barzman, B-a-r-z-m-a-n, and his collaborator, Bess Taffel. I think her name is spelled T-a-f-f-e-l. One or two "f's"; I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether she is the same Bess Taffel who occupied the chair yesterday that you are now occupying?
Mr. BERKELEY. She is the same girl. George Sklar, an excellent writer. Irving J. White and Francis Faragoh, spelled F-a-r-a-g-o-h, the writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend a meeting in the home of Offner? I understood you to say you attended a meeting but you did not state where it was.
Mr. BERKELEY. I attended the first meeting of this group at the home of Mortimer Offner who was then a screen writer, and today, I believe, is a television writer or producer or director. I don't know which. O-f-f-n-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the names of any other persons known to you to have been members of the Communist Party who cannot be identified by you as members of any particular fractions or groups ? 
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. You see, in addition to the party life, there is a certain amount of social life, and with some of the following I can't say I met them in a fraction, I can't say I met them in a group. I can only say I met them in the party. That may have been at a social function at someone's home where I was introduced to Comrade Jones or met someone on the street and received a similar introduction. The presumption can only be that when you were introduced to Comrade Jones and he said, "This is Comrade Berkeley," that Comrade Jones is Comrade Jones. A writer named Howard Dimsdale, D-i-m-s-d-a-1-e; a director, Michael Gordon. 1602 
Mr. TAVENNER. Is lie the same individual who appeared as a wit- mess here in this committee yesterday?
Mr. BERKELEY. Yes, sir. The actor, Howard DaSilva.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS he the same person who appeared before the committee in Washington?
Mr. BERKELEY. He is the same posing man. Albert Bein, B-e-i-n, a writer. A musician named Wayne Ronka, R-o-n-k-a, and another musician named Sam Albert, A-l-b-e-r-t. I believe I mentioned Spencer Austrian earlier in connection with-or maybe I didn't. We had two legal talents at our disposal in the writers' fraction in 1937 and 1938. We had Mr. Charles Katz' services as a member of the fraction and the services of Spencer Austrian as a member of the fraction, both attorneys of the bar of this State. A writer named Maurice Clark, and if you catch me on this one-Paul Cline. I don't know how he spells his name, though I think it is C-l-i-n-e. Paul Cline. He was a party functionary, I believe, around 1937. He was the head of this district of the party in Los Angeles. There have been various rumors that he was expelled at a later date, but I have no knowledge of it.
Mr. TAV ENNER. Now, Mr. Berkeley, I would like for you to tell the committee what the purposes and objectives of the Communist Party were in endeavoring to organize the moving-picture industry. What is it they were attempting to accomplish and the methods by which they expected to accomplish their purposes?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I think in addition to the work I spoke of earlier, work in the trade-unions and the guilds, that they were satisfied pretty early that they could not influence the content of pictures. As a side on that, I heard Mr. Biberman talking over the TV the first day of the hearings here and he said that ever since the unfriendly 10 had been put away and since the hearings of this committee have progressed to the point they have, that the content of the pictures of this town had seriously gotten worse; that now we were making pictures that deal only with sex. I don't know whether they are uninterested in sex in the Communist Party, but I vaguely remember some of the pictures that Mr. Biberman made. He said that we were only concerned with melodrama, and I couldn't understand why the absence of 10 men or the purging of 25 or 30, which I hope is done soon, from the industry is going to make the quality of our product any worse, because I believe that the product that we are turning out today is as good or better than it ever was. I don't believe at any time that the party, with the exception of a silly picture like Blockade, a badly made, badly written picture, has been affected. I am reminded of one day at Stander's house. He came in all excited. He says, "By golly, I got away with it." I said, "What did you get away with?" because-I don't' want to refer to him again as a screwball, but the man was a screwball. He said, "Well, I was shooting this picture, and I had to wait for the elevator, and I pressed the button and there is a pause, and the director said, 'Whistle something and fill in,' so I whistled four bars of the Internationale." Well, whether that ever got on film or not, I don't know, but that was about the extent of what the Communists were able to do. A picture goes through too many hands. It is controlled by too many minds for any single writer or producer or actor to affect its content. I believe, actually, that the main purposes of the party out here were prestige and financial. If they were able to get enough names  1603 of decent, honest people who were interested in good causes on the masthead of enough front organizations and raise enough money, they would be ahead of the game. To my personal knowledge, I have never seen a financial balance sheet of any front organization of any kind of the Communist Party, and I don't think the Income Tax Department has ever seen one. I would be very interested in seeing some of them. When you have a movement like the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, which was organized by the Communists to take advantage of the prevailing anti-Nazi sentiment of this town and which grew and which flourished, and you see a gentleman who says, "If you will call the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, the Hollywood Anti- Nazi and Anti-Communist League, I personally will raise a million dollars." I was told in a fraction meeting that David Selznick had offered personally to guarantee the sum of $1 million to the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League if the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, which was directly under the control of Communists, would change its name to Hollywood Anti-Nazi and Anti-Communist League, and the boys turned a million dollars down. They said, "Keep your money, Mr. Selznick," because they knew what would happen. They knew that
Mr. Selznick would stick his auditors in there and that the money would be used, number one, for the purpose for which Mr. Selznick wanted it used, which was anti-Fascist and anti-Communist, and they didn't want any funds used to fight themselves. That happened time and time again. One of their other purposes, outside of that type of front organization, was the political organization, the Motion Picture Democratic Committee. The Democratic Party and the Republican Party both are very weak organizationally in the studios because Hollywood as such is not an entity. We are scattered all through the county, and the Communists seized on the popularity of Roosevelt, on the temperature and the climate of that particular period to organize the Motion Picture Democratic Committee. I believe I was on the board of directors of that committee, and we enlisted many nonparty people. Now, I want it understood, the people I am mentioning now are nonparty people and by no stretch of the imagination am I labeling them anything except nonparty people, and they were antiparty people, people like Phil Dunne, Helen Gahagen Douglas, Milton Sperling, Melvyn Douglas; good liberal people like that were sucked into our Motion Picture Democratic Committee which we built up into a flourishing institution, and when Finland came along. Phil Dunne said, "Take a stand on Finland and denounce Russia." We Communists said, "Oh, no, we can't denounce Russia." That is the holy of holies. So we smashed the very organization we had spent a year in building, because we were more interested in the Soviet Union than we were in the truth. Now, vast sums of money have been raised in this town, enormous sums of money. I have been asked by the investigator for this committee to estimate the sum, the FBI have asked me at various times how much. I don't think anybody can make an honest estimate of the millions of dollars that were taken out of this town under the pretext of the Hollywood AntiNazi League, the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, the Committee to Aid the Lettuce Workers, the committee for this, the committee for that; a whole list of them. That money never got where it 81595-51-pt. 4-13 1604 was going, I'm sorry to say. It went, organizationally, I am firmly convinced, to the Communist Party. Many of our best people in the party were trapped that way. So I think primarily the job of the Communpist Party in Hollywood was not to affect pictures but to raise money and get the value of prestige names. In addition to the Communist Party members in this town we had a block of angels. I am sorry to say, gentlemen, I don't know who they were. These were nonparty people, not members at large, but nonparty people who gave sums. One man I was told was a regular c6ntribtitor of $400 a week directly to the party coffers. I do not know his name. So in addition to the dues that were collected, in addition to the sucker money that was taken out of the front organiza- tions, there was the sucker money from some very important people here who gave on faith. Now, remember, when I say "on faith," that was the period of 1937, 1938, 1939, when the Communist Party was the only vocal enemy of the Nazis. All the rest of the parties straddled the fence. And that was the big bait. Does that answer your question, sir?
Mr. TAVENXER. Yes: it does. I would like to ask you further, however, what plan or general plan was adopted with regard to the assessment of Communist Party members.
Mr. BERKELEY. Mr. Tavenner, I do not recall precisely what the percentage was. I remember this, you paid as a party member a minimum amount of dues. In addition to this you paid a percentage of your salary. I cannot give you any information on what the per- centage was because I just don't recollect the percentage. enough. They got 
Mr. TAVENNER. How was the percentage of assessment deter- minedMr. BERKELiEY. By what you owned.
Mr. TAVENNER. And by whom?
Mr. BERKELEY. You determined it pretty much yourself. If it were 2 or 3 or 4 percent, you were making a thousand dollars a week, you paid 2 or 3 or 4 percent of a thousand dollars a week and the party took you at your word.
Mr. TAVEN NER. I understand. But who fixed the amount of percentage ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, nothing was really fixed. You were told. A meeting was called-there might be a meeting of the financial secretary out of the bureau, in which the matter of dues-they would say, "Comrades, we are not getting enough money; our overhead has increased; we are going to have to increase our dues." And it was increased. That is called democratic centralism. You told them to increase it and it is increased. You take orders, that's all. The minute you think, you are chopped.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any censorship exerted by the leadership. in the Communist Party upon the activities of the writers ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Do you mean social censorship in regard to your work?
Mr. TAVENNER. I had in mind with regard to the character of your work.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I think I covered that before.  1605 Now, they realized they were unable, actually, to affect the content of pictures. I am completely convinced, as sure as I am sitting here, that the content of pictures was not affected by the party. Now, it is an interesting comment that all the years that the party was yelling, "We are going to make progressive pictures," the most progressive pictures in this industry have been made by nonparty people. The great pictures have been made by nonparty people-I repeat that again. Gentlemen's Agreement and pictures of that sort liad no connection with the party. They were studio projects. The studio didn't make them essentially out of a sense of "We are going to discuss this week, comrades, the Jewish or the Negro question." The time was ripe and Mr. Zanuck, Mr. Mayer, or Mr. Schary, or Mr. Warner felt the time was right to make a picture dealing with a specific problem, the same as they felt the time had come to make a picture like Behind the Iron Curtain or they might feel it was right to make westerns. They made progressive pictures because the time was right to make them. I do not believe that the content of films was touched in one iota by the Reds. However, plays were something different; books were something else again. John Howard Lawson started on a long-range project to write a history. He kept writing that history and rewriting that history because he would get it finished and then he would give it to the committee. The comrades who were censoring him, or guiding himthat is a great word "guiding." The other great word is "self-discipline." Self-discipline is when you do something wrong that someone else wants you to do. They would say, "No, this isn't the way history happened." And Lawson says, "But all my research tells me this is the way history happened." "Oh, no, it didn't." Lawson is a good Communist. He changes history. Then comes a note from New York, from the center, it happened another way, we lost that battle instead of winning it. So again the history book got rewritten. As far as I mnow that book has never been published. We had a case-again I am talking about Lawson, where he did a play called Processional, many many years ago. It was the first of the impressionistic plays that borrowed heavily from the Germans. It was a very exciting play, experimental play, very thrilling play. Well, the WPA came along and the Federal theater project wanted to do some exciting plays. Someone latched onto Processional. Then we had the spectacle of the high commissar of Hollywood going to New York, having his play done by the Federal theater project, having it criticized by the party press for being reactionary and antiworker, and then the party moving heaven and earth to throw actors out of work because the play didn't agree with their party line. That is a pretty nice kind of a job of censorship. I don't think I need belabor that point any more.
Mr. TAVENNER. You indicated, when I asked you the question, that there was some possibility of a censorship of a social character.
Mr. BERKELEY. Oh, yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you have reference to there ? 1606 
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, my first real sharp conflict, I mean an ideolog- ical conflict with the party came about when I was assigned to work with a certain gentleman at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. He was not a Communist. He was, let's call him, the right-wing, reactionary, whatever you want to call him. He is a very prominent writer. I enjoyed working with him. I was assigned to work with him by my employer and we subsequently wrote either four or five pictures together. Actually, one of the things that caused me to leave the party was the fact that Lawson and Collins and Jarrico and Biberman called me in and said, "Why are you working with this man?" I said, "I was hired to work with him. That is my job." He said. "Don't you know he is an antiparty man?" "Sure I know lie is an antiparty man. He doesn't like my politics, either, but we are working together." Tremendous pressure was brought on me to quit my assignment, to quit my job, because this man happened to be a member of the Motion Picture Alliance. They didn't say this man is a bad writer, they didn't say he shot his wife. They said, "He is a reactionary, you can't work with him. it's bad for you." And that was the beginning of my social freeze in this town, working with that kind of a man is almost as bad as working with a Trotskyite. Anybody you don't like is a Trotskyite, a Fascist, you know. My friend Harry was a Fascist. -Harry is a good writer; I liked working with him. I would like to work with him again.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was it that you became inactive in the work of the party?
Mr. BERKELEY. Do you mean inactive in the work of the party or do you mean when did I begin to get butterflies ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you put it your own way.
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I will put it my own way. Well, I first got knocked over by the pact. I swallowed the pact, it made sense, the official explanation. The Russians were stalling for time; I swallowed it. Along comes the war and everybody says, "You see, they were stall- ing for time. You see, the British aren't fighting, the French aren't fighting-great." This thing kept up and our country is sending ships to England and planes to England and trying to help England stay on her feet, and the party is yelling, "The Yanks aren't coming." And I was surprised to find the Communist Party adopting the line of America First. One day, without saying anything to anyone, except my wife, I went downtown to this neighborhood here and I gave some money to the William Allen White Committee, the committee to defend America by aiding the allies. Now, I was chicken. I should have made the break then. I didn't. I gave them money and I kept on in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little bit ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I gave money to the William Allen White Com- mittee and continued with my work in the party. This was early in 1941 before Russia was attacked. Russia is attacked and suddenly I find out, "Kid, you were right, you were smart." I ride along with the boys. And now the Yanks  1607 are coming. The old party line changes. It's a good war now, we've got to get this country into war. So one day I am fighting to keep us out of the war and the next day I am driving us into the war. That's all right if you have a swivel neck. I am working at the studio and the social pressure is being brought to bear on me, "You can't work with this writer; you shouldn't work there with this writer." They are yelling for a second front. Oh, boy, they yelled for a second front. And I was then working at Metro and Richard Collins and Paul Jarrico had been working on a picture called Song of Russia. My friend James Kevin McGuinness, who is now dead, and for whom I have a great regard, walked into my office one day and said, "Can you talk to those kids of yours," meaning Jarrico and Collins, "and of mine," meaning you are the oldest Communist, I think, on the lot, "about the script they are turning in ?" He told me that they had the American leading man, played by Bob Taylor, a boy from Iowa in the Soviet Union on this tour, completely unaware of how to run a tractor. Now, any American who can run a car can run a tractor. But these were two comrades, to build up the Soviet Union, have the Russian girl, who probably has shoes on for the first time, show Bob Taylor, the American musician, the wonders of a tractor and he is a boy from Iowa. That was too much for Mr. McGuinness to swallow and it was too much for me to swallow. So I went to Jar- rico and to Collins and we had a "hassle." It was a good one. They called me names and I called them names, and it went on and it went on. I still say you tell the truth in a picture, as much of the truth as you can, as much of the truth you tell here in your books or in your home life. That's what it is for. I could not see the United States being run down to make a point for anybody else, because it is bad picture making, because everybody in Missouri who sees this picture glorifying the Soviet Union, all the propaganda value is going out of the picture when they see the boy from Iowa doesn't know what the clutch or the brake is on a tractor. It is just stupidity. It is bad politics on the part of Jarrico and Collins. That shook me. In comes Mr. McGuinness one day and he says, "Do you know how much they have raised for the Scottsboro boys?" "No." He says, "My figures shows they have raised $2,000,000 for the Scottsboro boys and Judge Leibowitz has given his services for nothing. What has happened to the money ? Now, McGuinness and I had a strange relationship. McGuinness was the organizer and first leader of the Motion Picture Alliance, and I was a friend of his, and I was also known to McGuinness as a Communist. He said, "What's happening to that money?" I said, "I don't know." He said, "Well, you are going to have to find out some day because somebody is going to ask the question." And he said, "You got your name on the committee list; maybe they will ask you that question, maybe you are responsible for moneys and taxes unpaid, or theft or larceny, or what have you." He said, "By the way, you are also a member of the Joint Anti-Fascist Committee, aren't you?" 8 1 5 9 5-51--t. 4-i1 1608 I said, "Yes." "Did you ever hear of a non-Communist being saved by the Joint Anti-Fascist Committee?" He said, "Now, look, I don't care if they save the Commies if they are in trouble there," he said, "but did you ever hear of a Socialist being saved, or of a Republican being saved, or of a Social Democrat being saved by the league?" I said, "I don't know. I just give my dough." He said, "Why don't you find out, sucker ? So sucker marched off to see Mr. John Howard Lawson, and there I,got the double talk. And believe you me, that boy can dish out double talk. He is an expert. All this time they are yelling, "We want a second front, we want a second front, we want a second front." And a man named Churchill, who I thought was a little smarter than I was, and slightly smarter than Mr. Lawson, and probably it occurred to me, a lot more honest than Mr. Stalin, said, "No second front." But we wanted the second front and we got a second front and the troubles of the world today are due to the second front which we got then, because if we had gone through the surf on our belly, if we had the Balkans on the side of the Western Powers, there would be no east-west problem today. It was Mr. Churchill, more than anything else, plus the constant switch of line, plus my belief that these men were essentially thieves, that caused me to break with the party in 1942 or 1943. Now the break was final. And strange enough no one ever came after me and said, "Join." I guess they knew I wasn't having any of it. In 1944 I was told that the Communist Party had been dissolved, that a group known as the Communist Political Association had been formed which was going to take in Socialists, Progressives of'the La Follette ilk, left-wing Democrats, utopians, et cetera, and would I come to a meeting. I went to such a meeting. The meeting was held in the valley, and I have racked my brains for the place at which this meeting was held. There were about a hundred people there. It was at somebody's home. I don't remember whose home it was. There we got the new line, capitalism lives with socialism. No more communism, the bunk. Gradually communism will wither away; we will take over. I didn't buy that, either. I missed the impact of the control. That I missed completely. My actual break with the party was in 1942 or 1943. We can better date that exactly by finding out when the Song of Russia was being written. It was being written for a long time. Since then I have devoted every moment that I could to fight the party. I have maintained this position, however-I want that clear, because I have heard the things that have been said about me. The party presses call me a renegade, a Trotskyite, informer, a traitor, right down the filthy vocabulary of the party. I am not a reactionary, I am not a Fascist, I am not a Communist. I am a liberal, middle-ofthe-roader who says that the liberal movement in this country was destroyed by the Communists, that the Communists themselves have forced the liberal either to quit the liberal movement, to move over to the right or be destroyed by the left. There is no choice left because of the Communist Party.  1609 Today the liberal movement is growing, you gentlemen in Congress know it, you feel its effect, and that's where I belong, and that's where I have been for approximately 8 years, and that's where I am going to stay. I belong to the All-Guild Committee, I have helped clean the Reds out of the guild. In addition, I discovered that there is the other side of the coin. Where in the past I raised money and gave funds to the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, which was to help the victims of Nazi persecution, I found a few years ago that some very intelligent men in this country had formed an organization known as the International Relief and Rescue Committee, and I havebeen a constant contributor to that ever since I learned of it. That- today a national campaign is going on under the guidance of Carl Spaatz, for the iron curtain refugee work. And this money is being used to rescue the victims of the Red terror. There are other movements under way to helpMr. TAVENNER. Due to the necessity of adjourning, I suggest that you reserve that until the afternoon session.
Mr. WooD. The committee will stand in recess for 1 hour and 20 minutes. (Whereupon a recess was taken at 12:55 p. m. until 2: 15 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (At the hour of 2:20 p. m. of the same day, the proceedings were resumed,-the same parties being present.)
Mr. WOOD. Let the committee be in order. 
Mr. Counsel, are you ready to proceed further ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. TESTIMONY OF MARTIN BERKELEY, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS-Resumed
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Berkeley, you were telling us at the end of the morning session about the manner in which you withdrew from the Communist Party and I believe at the time of closing you were telling us of your activity against the Communist Party after you had withdrawn.
Mr. BERKEzEY. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you proceed, please, with a statement of such information as you desire to give regarding your activity against ' ' the Communist Party after leaving it? 
Mr. BERKELEY. As I said earlier, from the inception of the All- Guild Committee of the Screen Writers' Guild, I was a member of that committee, I solicited funds and membership at the studio, at Fox where I was then employed, and have continued to do so. I have devoted a great deal of time to the work of the International Rescue and Relief Commission to aid the victims of the Red terror and of the iron curtain campaign fund under the auspices of Carl Spaatz. Already a group of us have been talking about organizing a large dinner in California of the talent groups to raise a considerable sum of money for General Spaatz' worthy fund. We hope that within the next 2 months we can have a real announcement that Hollywood has raised 'for the victims of the Red terror just as in 1610 the past it raised money for the victims of Nazi terror, a huge fund to help these people who have lost their homes and their liberties as a result of the Reds. I think, sir, that about sums up my active organizational work. I have a letter with me, I doubt whether anything will be gained by reading it, from Allen Rivkin, the head of the Motion Picture Industry Council and the head of the All-Guild Committee, attesting to my work with the All-Guild Committee since its inception. But I see no necessity at this time to read the letter. I think the matter ,is generally understood by the committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you any further statement that you desire to make at this time to the committee relating to the activities of the Communist Party in Hollywood?
Mr. BERKELEY. I think through the efforts of this committee that the works of the Communists have been smashed, in a sense. The party is underground today. I think it is extremely optimistic to say that 25 or 50 active Communists are left in this town. I think there are many, many more and I think that the statements of witnesses who have come before this committee and who have taken refuge behind the fifth amendment are indicative of the fact that there are still many active functioning Communists here, because a man whose skirts are clean will help his country. I am particularly pleased with the attitude of Warner Bros. yesterday in the case of Leo Townsend when they found out that he had received a subpena from this committee and they found out that he would cooperate and help his country, their attitude in saying "Your job is not in jeopardy; you are an honest man." I think it is indicative of another feeling.
Mr. Lippert, of Exclusive Pictures, of London, engaged me some weeks ago to write a picture. This nonsense that appearing before this committee means that there are reprisals from the industry is not true, and I don't believe it is true. We have two specific cases of two witnesses here yesterday and today, and as men come forward and tell the truth and cooperate they will find that the industry will cooperate with them to the same degree it did in the past.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter?
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Berkeley, you testified that there were Communists at large, and that classification was created for two purposes: (1) To protect these alleged responsible, influential people and (2) to protect the party. That leads me to conclude that people who set up that classification realize that they were engaged in illegal work or something subversive. Is that not the fact?
Mr. BERKELEY. I think so. I agree with your conclusion, sir.
Mr. WALTER. I think that is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Berkeley, I think some clarification is needed- at least, I am not quite clear on the matter--of your telegram, the telegram to Mr. Collins. I assume in light of what you said at the opening part of your statement that you considered that to be a mistake and that, having to do it over again, you would not send such a telegram?
Mr. BERKELEY. That is quite correct.  1611 
Mr. JACKSON. Did Mr. Collins, to the best of your knowledge, in any way state anything other than the truth in his testimony before the committee ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I have not read all of Mr. Collins' testimony.
Mr. JACKSON. But to the best of your knowledge his testimony was correct?
Mr. BERKELEY. Quite so.
Mr. JACKSON. I believe you mentioned during the course of your testimony the altruistic-and I quote this--"altruistic purposes of the Communist Party" as being the reason why some people were led into the party. In light of your subsequent experience and observation in the party, do you believe that there are any altruistic purposes, except as they may be momentarily expedient in making an appeal to minority groups, and things of that kind
Mr. BERKELEY. You are quite right, Mr. Jackson. One of the simplest ways of gaining a mass membership either in the party or in front organizations is by appealing to the better instincts of men, and the face of the party, in many respects, is a very kind face. We know, actually, what the face of the party is, but it takes a long time to see it.
Mr. JACKSON. Did any except the members of the Communist Party during the time of your membership have any knowledge of the extent to which the Communist infiltration had succeeded in Hollywood ? Was it generally known throughout the country and throughout Los Angeles, the nature and true extent of this infiltration ?
Mr. BERKELEY. I don't think so. I don't think that was ever made clear until this committee really, started to function and get to the root of it.
Mr. JACKSON. What organization is today carrying the burden of the Communist propaganda and continued Communist activities in the Los Angeles area? Would you care to express an opinion on that?
Mr. BERKELEY. Well, I think the-I don't know the exact title of it-it is the Motion Picture Arts and Sciences Group, so-called. I think they are the face of the Communist Party in this community today.
Mr. JACKSON. Is that the Southern California Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions?
Mr. BERKELEY. That's it.
Mr. JACKSON. No further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter?
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Berkeley, when Sterling Hayden appeared before our committee during the hearings in Washington he made reference to passive membership. He stated at one time he was asked to become a passive member where he wouldn't have to attend meetings. I am wondering if the passive membership could be the same as the membership at large which you spoke about in your testimony.
Mr. BERKELEY. I have never heard the phrase "passive membership," but it sounds like it might be the same thing.
Mr. POTTER. While you were in New York and before you came to Hollywood, were you connected in any way with the Group Theatre ?
Mr. BERKELEY. NO, sir; except I saw their shows. But I had no connection with it. 1612 
Mr. PrTTER. From the experience you have had in the past with the party are you convinced that a member of the Communist Party today is dedicated to defend the Soviet Union over and above their citizenship responsibility to defending the United States of America ?
Mr. BERKELEY. Mr. Potter, I believe that anyone who was then a member of the party or joined the party since 1945 and who retains his membership today is a traitor.
Mr. POTTER. That's all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Berkeley, on behalf of the committee we desire first to express the concern and regret that we feel in that your action in coming before this committee has occasioned you some annoyance as expressed in the beginning of your testimony. It might be called to your attention, however, that you are not the only person engaged in an effort to resist the spread of this instrumentality of aggression and totalitarianism in our midst that has been similarly threatened. Those of us who have been engaged openly in this work for quite a long while have gotten to the stage where we no longer pay any attention to them. My observation has been that they haven't got the courage to commit an act of violence on anybody, that their work is by stealth and intimidation. It takes, however, a good deal of courage for a man who has once been identified with an organization of this sort, even though he has made a clean break and evidenced a desire and the zeal to combat the menace, to come out in the open and give testimony. For your cooperation in doing that the committee expresses to you not only our very deep and sincere appreciation, but the gratitude of every liberty-loving American citizen. Thank you.
Mr. BERKELEY. Thank you very much, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to advise the committee that we would like to have this witness remain here as I would like for him to appear before the committee in closed session on several matters.
Mr. WooD. I have an idea the witness is rather tired in that he has been on the stand quite a long time. Could we excuse him at 2: 30 for a couple of hours?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Will you be back with us 2 hours from now, sir?
Mr. BERKELEY. I will stay here and await your pleasure.
Mr. WooD. Very well, until that time the witness is excused. Who do you have next, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Philip Stevenson.
Mr. WOOD. Are you Mr. Stevenson?
Mr. STEVENSON. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn? Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you are about to give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? 
Mr. STEVENSON. I do. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Stevenson, are you represented by counsel?
Mr. STEVENSON. Yes; I am. 
Mr. WOOD. For the purpose of the record, will counsel be identified?
Mr. KENNY. Robert Kenny and Ben Margolis, of Los Angeles.  1613 TESTIMONY OF PHILIP EDWARD STEVENSON, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS 