Mr. TAVENNER. What Is your name, please, sn ?
Mr. BENOFF. My name is Max Nathan Benoff.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the first name?
Mr. BENOFF. Max.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born
Mr. BENOFF. I was born in New York City, September 21, 1915.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel?
Mr. BENOFF. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. WILLIAMS. I am Edward Bennett Williams, of Washington, D. C.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Benoff, were you present in the hearing room while the witness just before you testified ? 356 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. BENOFF. I was, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. The witness, Mr. David Lang, identified you as one of the members of the Communist Party group to which he was assigned, the one composed of writers.
Mr. Benoff, were you a member of that group ?
Mr. BENOFF. Well, I don't remember which group he talked about, sir, because he mentioned quite a few names, but I mean, I was a member, if that is what you mean.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Now before talking to you about that and asking questions, I will further identify you as to your educational background and your record of employment. Will you state to the committee, please, what your formal education has consisted of?
Mr. BENOFF. I was educated in the public schools of New York City. I attended the grammar school and the junior high school, and from junior high school went to high school and completed high school, and that is the extent of my formal education.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. BENOFF. I am a free-lance writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Free-lance writer?
Mr. BENOFr. Comedy writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in that occupation
Mr. BENOFF. Oh, about 15 years, between 15 and 16 years, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. W111 you briefly summarize for the committee, please, what your record of employment has been and if you have screen credits, tell the committee what they are.
Mr. BENOFF. I will be glad to.
Mr. TAVENNER. The principal ones.
Mr. BENOFF. Certainly. I began to write comedy in-well, I actually wrote comedy all my life. When I was just a young fellow of 15 or so I used to contribute to Walter Winchell's column quite frequently. I think I was one of his leading contributors-I don't like to promote myself, but I contributed to Winchell's column and I decided I might as well make some money out of it.
Mr. CLArDn. You mean that was for free
Mr. BENOFF. They didn't pay for it anyway.
Mr. SCHERER You might as well have been working for Jack Benny.
Mr. BENOFF. What was that?
Mr. CLADY. You may have thought you were working for Jack Benny. Mi. BENOFF. That is right. Jack pays very well. I started writing cartoon pjkes, and I wrote some stuff for Ballyhoo. You gentlemen probably never read the stuff. At any rate, I was writing stuff for Ballyhoo, and I wrote the cartoon jokes for Peter Arno and people like that. I also wrote for radio. About 1938 I had a couple of weeks with Eddie Cantor. I did odd things. In 19.39 I really got started, because I went to work for Ed Gardner on a program called So This Is New York. From that show I went to the Phil Baker program. I worked on that for, I don't know-as long as it lasted, which wasn't very long, then on the Tommy Riggs show, and he didn't last very long, either. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 357 
Mr. CLARDY. Would you mind keeping your voice up ? I don't want to miss any of this.
Mr. BENOFF. Anyway, in 1940 I went to California, and I worked on the Texaco Star Theater, starring Ken Murray. I went back to New York and was married, and then in 1941 I went to Chicago and worked on another program called-I don't remember. I just remember it was snowing all the time in Chicago. I got back from there fast, and I went to work on a program for Ed Gardner again, a program called Duffy's Tavern. I worked on Duffy's Tavern until 1943, and in 1943 I came out to California to do a picture, and I went to work for Paramount. I left the radio program and went to work for Paramount. They didn't make the picture. I guess they read the script. They never made mine. Anyway, after I left that, at the end of 1943, then in 1944 I worked for Twentieth Century-Fox just only a few weeks. I worked at RKO for just a few weeks. I worked for Warner Bros. The name of the picture was Take It or Leave It, one picture. The other picture was, I am ashamed to say, The Girl Rush. Then while at Warner Bros. I did Hollywood Canteen. I didn't do very well in pictures. I went back to radio and I did the Baby Snooks program, and then I went in the Navy. In the Navy I did programs like Command Performance, Command Call, and stuff like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of your going into the Navy?
Mr. BENOFF. 1945 and 1946. I got out in 1946, worked for Eddie Cantor, for Joan Davis, then for different programs like Ray Bolger, Colgate Comedy Hour, 1947 and 1948 on a picture, then I went to Fanny Brice and the Baby Snooks show, and then in 1949, in January of 1949, I began to write a program called Life With Luigi. Some of you may have heard that program, and that lasted up until now.
Mr. TAVENNER. During how long a period of time were you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BENOFF. I was a member a very short time, Mr. Tavenner. That is, I was a young man of about 27 or 28 at the time and it was in 1944, for a period, as near as I can estimate, of 3 or 4 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long a period?
Mr. BENOFF. Just for 3 or 4 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please tell us the circumstances under which you joined the group that you were assigned to?
Mr. BENOFF. Well, I didn't have any indoctrination or anything like that that Mr. Lang told you. I am not a political person. I am a comedy writer, and frankly I didn't have very much interest in politics, with apologies to you people, and at that time I came out I wanted to get into pictures. I didn't want to do any radio work and I was anxious to meet the big picture writers. Of course, it was a difficult time for anyone to try to meet such people. I met a man by the name of Bob Rossen, and I got to know
Mr. Rossen. I was naturally proud of my association with him, because he was one of the top writers in Hollywood, and one time, as nearly as I can remember-I want to give the committee all the facts and everything that I remember, and as close as I can remember, he said, "Come out to a meeting of the party, of the Communist Party, and meet a lot of big writers." 31747-53-pt. 1-7 358 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA I was, of course, glad to meet the big writers. 
Mr. TAVENNER. As I understand, you were influenced in the action you took by the prominence of the individual who paid you special attention.
Mr. BENOFF. Absolutely, sir, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of any other persons who were led into the Communist Party who took that action as the result of the stature or the prominence of people who were already members of the party ?
Mr. BENOFF. No, Mr. Tavenner, I don't. Truthfully, I practically know nothing about communism or people who believe in communism or who are in or out of communism, or anything like that. I never discussed it.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of these hearings, particularly during the early part of it, in 1951, we heard quite a bit about the objective of the Communist Party in Hollywood, namely, to use to the fullest extent glamor names and personalities in recruiting for the Communist Party. Do you have the impression that the interest that was shown by Bob Rossen in you was a matter of that kind, a thing which attracted you because of his prominence?
Mr. BENOFF. Well, if you mean-I can tell you nobody ever recruited me. There is no such thing as saying, "Here is a piece of paper. Give me $10," you know. "Here is a slip. Go home." I mean, "You are in," or anything like that. I never had anything like that. I just went to the meeting. I don't know why. Rossen did it, you see. I think it was a matter of friendship, a gesture of friendship. He said, "You will meet big people." I went there. I attended a very few meetings. The meetings were dull. They weren't interesting. I don't expect to get laughs everywhere I go, but I didn't get anything, one way or the other. I was in, like a bathing beauty in a swimming pool, I dipped my toe, I dunked it and ran. That was the whole thing.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have often been told there was no humor in the Communist Party. Maybe this is some evidence of it.
Mr. BENOFF. Well, I never wrote any material.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you engage in the study of the Communist Party literature while you were a member of the party?
Mr. BENOFF. No, sir, not to my recollection I didn't. I know I didn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you study any of the books on dialectic materialism ?
Mr. BENOFF. I don't even study books on vegetarianism.
Mr. TAVENNER. What brought about the termination of your relationship with the Communist Party?
Mr. BENOFF. I never had a termination. Probably the whole thing was mutual. They were probably as glad to get rid of me as I was to get out. Nobody ever asked me to come back and I have never heard from them since. I have never seen my picture in the post office, saying, "Reward for that guy." Just nothing.
Mr. TAVENNER. You came to Hollywood when, in 1924?
Mr. BENOFF. No, 1943, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 359 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, according to the statement you just gave, you were engaged in the same general type of work in New York for a period of time.
Mr. BENOFF. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you affiliated in any manner with the Communist Party while you were in New York?
Mr. BENOFF. NO, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you approached on the subject while in New York and requested to join the Communist Party?
Mr. BENOFF. NO sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period of time that you were a member of the party or since that time, have you knowingly permitted yourself to be used in the employment of members of the Communist Party who were not as well qualified as other persons for the particular task involved?
Mr. BENOFF. No, sir. It is as much news to me as it is to you. As a matter of fact, I told you when I was at-at the time I was in I was in the picture business, trying to be in the picture business. If I had gotten any help I would have gone a heck of a lot further than I did. Nobody has helped me. I never tried to help anybody. When I came out here I tried to get into the picture business. I was a very small person, you might call me a junior writer, something like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were some of the persons whose names you can recall or give us the names of all the persons you can recall who were members of this group of the Communist Party to which you belonged.
Mr. BENOFF. Mr. Tavenner, I have gone over this with my counsel, and everything else. Believe me, really, 10 years is really tough to remember. I can remember this, and the reason I remember this is that it seems to me the meetings I attended I saw these people all the time there. Ring Lardner, Dalton Trumbo, John Lawson, Richard Collins. I am sure I saw Richard Collins-I couldn't be positive. Gordon Kahn, Paul Jarrico, and Albert Maltz.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you had any discussion on the subject of communism with any of those persons since you withdrew from the party ?
Mr. BENOFF. NO, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe that is all I have to ask, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Clardy. 
Mr. CLARDY. Mr. Witness, as I understand it, your connection with the party was rather fleeting, so to speak.
Mr. BENOFF. Yes.
Mr. CLARDY. There was no formal joining and no formal breaking away from the party. 
Mr. BENOFF. NO; none. 
Mr. CLARDY. Were you ever called on to contribute, as the other witnesses have testified, a percentage of what you might earn?
Mr. BENOFF. I am glad you asked me that. To my best recollection I don't remember ever giving 1 cent to dues. I don't even remember paying any dues. I don't remember signing a card. I always considered myself as not a member of the Communist Party. '360 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. CLARDY. Well then, as I understand it, what you are trying to tell us is that you were trying to make your way up the ladder in your chosen profession and this offered opportunity and you availed yourself of it?
Mr. BENOFF. Absolutely, sir. If someone had said to me, "Come on to a meeting of the Republican Party and meet a Democrat," I would have gone.
Mr. CLARDY. I presume you would have extended that to cover the other parties as well.
Mr. BENOFF. YOU know, you can't say that, because the Hollywood Democratic Party turned out to be a fun organization.
Mr. JACKSON. We will get back to the subject at hand.
Mr. CLARDY. Have you, since the termination, if we can call it that, completely disassociated yourself, both in action and spirit, from the things you ran across while you were connected with the party, if we can call it that?
Mr. BENOFF. Well, I am glad and I appreciate and thank you for asking me that, because my name-and we have really gone over this-my recollection, by looking at lists-and everybody has a list today-and any place at all, you can't find my name on one organization, front, back, sideways, or anything; just nothing. I don't join. I am not a joiner. I am a stay-outer.
Mr. CLARDY. Let's hope that continues. Let's get down to the serious business of this meeting. Are you convinced today that the things the Communist Party stands for and which you have discovered for yourself, both in these meetings and otherwise, are against the best interests of this Nation? In other words, are you genuinely converted to the American way of life, as you should be and you tell us you are ?
Mr. BENOF. Congressman Clardy, I wish you wouldn't say am I converted to the American way of life.
Mr. CLARDY. I didn't mean it the way it sounded.
Mr. BENOFF. I think, as I have always thought, and you have heard my program. You know-I don't want to say pro-American. I am an American. I don't think anybody can beat America. I don't think there is any country like America. I don't think we need have any fear of intervention by other people. I don't think there is any other system like our system.
Mr. CLARDY. Would it be fair to say, sir, you look back on this brief interlude of a few months with a great deal of regret?
Mr. BENOFF. A great deal of regret; yes. It is the kind of thing I wish had never happened and it is just too bad, you know; it is just one of those things.
Mr. CLARDY. I take it then this is the opportunity, since you have been named, to express yourself as you have and is welcomed by you.
Mr. BENOFF. Not only welcomed, but I would have demanded it.
Mr. CLARDY. That is all.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. When Mr. Rossen invited you to attend this meeting, did he indicate to you by joining his group you would be assisted in your ambition to be somebody in this profession? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 361 
Mr. BENOFF. No, sir. There was never any promise, implied or otherwise, anybody would have gotten me a job. If that were the case Mr. Rossen would have tried to get me a job.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. I have no questions.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. DOYLE. When you discontinued attending the Communist meetings to which Mr. Rossen had first taken you, sort of sponsored you, I take it, at the first meeting, did you tell him goodbye or did you tell him you were disassociating yourself ?
Mr. BENOFF. No, sir. What happened at the time was I didn't go and in a short time after that I went into radio. So, actually, the contacts were different. Then after that I went into the Navy and the contacts were different again. When I came back I went into radio again.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you. No other questions.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Frazier.
Mr. FRAZIER. No questions. 
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you very much, Mr. Bennoff, for your testimony. I think you and the Communist Party are about even. You got no laughs and they got no dues.
Mr. BENOFF. That isn't fair. I don't like to leave with somebody topping me.
Mr. JACKSON. That wasn't the purpose. You said, Mr. Benoff, you would have demanded the opportunity to appear after having been named. I think it is perhaps well to stress again at this time that anyone who is named and feels that they have been unfairly treated has a standing invitation from this committee to notify the committee to that effect and the committee will at the first opportunity give them an opportunity to be heard. This is a standing rule of the committee. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel ?
Mr TAVENNER. No further questions.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you, Mr. Benoff.
Mr. TAVENNER. Francis Edward Faragoh. 
Mr. FARAGOH. May I request I not be televised during the hearing?
Mr. JACKSON. Do you object to the audio or visual portion?
Mr. FARAGOH. Just the visual portion.
Mr. JACKSON. Will the television operators kindly keep the cameras off the witness during the course of his testimony. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give before this committee will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. FARAGOH. I do. TESTIMONY OF FRANCIS EDWARD FARAGOH, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, MORRIS E. COHN 