Mr. WooD. Have a seat, please, sir. Will counsel identify himself for the record.
Mr. MARGOLIS. Ben Margolis, of Los Angeles.
Mr. WoOD. Dr. Schoen, under the established rules of this committee you are at liberty to confer with your counsel at any time you desire 1703 1704 during the progress of the interrogation and obtain from him such advice, information, or suggestion as you think would be helpful to you. Of course, your counsel has been before this committee on frequent occasions and is familiar with-the privileges that he is entitled to.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe we are ready to begin. You are Dr. Max Howard Schoen ? Dr. SCHOEN. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell your last name, please, sir. Dr. SCHOEN. S-c-h-o-e-n. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where and when were you born, Dr. Schoen ? Dr. SCHOEN. I was born in New York City, February 4,1922.
Mr. TAVEN NER. Are you now a resident of Los Angeles ? Dr. SCHOEN. I am. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles ? Dr. SCHOEN. I believe since approximately the summer of 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession ? Dr. SCHOEN. I am a dentist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee, briefly, your general educational background. Dr. SCHOEN. I received my public-school education in New York City, then graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School, attended the College of the City of New York for 1 year, after which my family moved out to the west coast. I continued my predental education at UCLA and then got my B. S. and D. D. S. degrees at the University of Southern California in 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Since that time you have been engaged in the practice of your profession in Los Angeles ? Dr. SCHOEN. Well, not exactly. Immediately, or within a very short period after graduation, since I was an officer in the Reserve, I went on active duty and practiced dentistry for approximately 3 years in the Army, of which approximately 20 months were spent overseas in the Pacific theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you still hold a Reserve commission ? Dr. SCHOEN. I am not sure what the technicality of this is. I have not signed up for the Organized Reserves, but I believe I am considered to be on inactive status. I am not sure of what the situation is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Schoen, I think by this time all those who have been subpenaed before this committee understand the.purpose of this investigation. Dr. SCHOEN. I believe so.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to tell the committee what you know regarding Communist Party activities and Communist Party infiltration into the moving picture industry, if you have any knowledge of same. Dr. SCHOEN. This question, Mr. Tavenner, contains within it the name of an organization which has been considered subversive, par.ticularly in front of this committee. Therefore, I decline to answer this question on the basis of the fifth amendment which was, as I understand it, originally placed in the Constitution of the United States in the Bill of Rights in order to protect the people from persecution and prosecution on the basis of their political and religious beliefs and associations.  1705 
Mr. TAVENNER. The organization to which you referred, I believe, was the Communist Party ? Dr. SCHOEN. I believe you mentioned that organization in the question. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, is that the organization to which you referred ? Dr. SCHOEN. Well, you referred to it and then I also did in answer- ing the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you a question relating to an organiza- tion which has been known as a Communist front or, at least, it has been said that it has, the Worker's School. The committee has information that a class of the Worker's School was held on June the 18th 1943, at the Unitarian Church here in the city of Los Angeles, and at that lecture, Communist Party literature was brought there to the church by John Howard Lawson and was distributed by you. Now,. I am not raising any question at all about the propriety of your attending such a lecture, but I am anxious to know the circumstances under which Communist Party literature was delivered there and distributed, if you know. Dr. SCHOEN. This is a similar question. Therefore, I also decline to answer it on the basis of the fifth amendment which, incidentally, I consider to be closely related to the first amendment, which protects the right of free speech. The right of free speech doesn't mean much without also the right to remain silent in regard to one's political beliefs and associations.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee understands that a similar meeting was held on July 4, 1943, at the same church and that you engaged again in the distribution of Communist Party literature. Is that true or not? Dr. SCHOEN. That is substantially the same question; therefore, although I regret having to repeat myself, the same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the People's World of May 13, 1943, a meeting was to be held on the 15th of May at the Danish Auditorium in Los Angeles, publicizing I Am An American Day. According to information in the possession of the committee, the meeting was addressed by Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, a national committee member of the Communist Party, and by Steve Nelson, who, at the time, was the Communist Party organizer for Alameda County, Calif. Did you attend that meeting, and, if so, did those two persons address that meeting? Dr. ScHOEN. Mr. Tavenner, this, I believe, is still more or less the same question and, as I hope I have indicated by now, my answer is also the same. This, I believe, represents questions again relating to beliefs and associations, and on the basis of the fifth amendment I refuse to answer on that basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you familiar with an organization known as the Dewey Davis Club of the Communist Party which, we understand, was a group within the Communist Party to which doctors and dentists were invited to join? Dr. SCHOEN. We are still being repetitious. Same question; same. answer. - Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time, particularly and especially in 1946, a member of the Dewey Davis Club of the Hollywood section of the Los Angeles County Communist Party ? 1706 Dr. SCHOEN. Again, same question, same answer. I regret to be wasting the time of everyone here, but, Mr. Tavenner, you are asking more or less the same questions.
Mr. WOOD. Just a moment. We will be the judge about wasting time, sir, and we desire not to waste any. You will be very helpful to us by answering the questions but since you decline to do so the only thing we can do is to ask them.
Mr. TAVENNER. The People's Daily World of April 27, 1951, devotes page 11 to May Day greetings. Among those listed as having sent May Day greetings appears your name. Will you examine the document and state whether or not your name appears there ? Dr. SCHOEN. Mr. Tavenner, the People's World has been deemed subversive, therefore I decline to answer this question on the basis of the fifth amendment. Although it seems unfortunate that newspapers find their way onto lists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wouldn't that depend entirely upon the actual conduct of the newspaper? Is there such a thing as immunity for newspapers which extends beyond that of the rights of other people and other organizations? Dr. SCHOEN (after conferring with counsel). I believe that the Constitution guarantees freedom of the press, regardless of whether any group or individuals agree or disagree with the material that is contained. Freedom of the press is guaranteed under the first article of the Bill of Rights.
Mr. WOOD. Now, having delivered yourself as to the Bill of Rights, will you answer the question ? Dr. SCHOEN. (after conferring with counsel). I have answered. I decline to answer the question on the basis of the fifth amendment. And I, also, was asked for my opinion, which I gave.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you an issue of the Independent, a newspaper publication of Long Beach, Calif., which carries a full-page advertisement in the November 22, 1948, issue. This advertisement was paid for by the Long Beach Friends of the Civil Rights Congress and is in form and context a protest against contempt proceedings involving witnesses who appeared before a grand jury in Los Angeles. Your name appears as a signer, and I would like to ask you to state to the committee the circumstances under which your signature was obtained and who obtained it. Dr. SCHOEN. (after conferring with counsel). Does this advertisement refer to the case here in Los Angeles where subsequently the decisions were reversed by the Ninth Circuit Court? I believe I have some recollection of this. Is this what this ad refers to ?
Mr. TAVENNER. That is correct. Dr. SCHOEN. Well, the decision was reversed by the Ninth Circuit Court and the people were freed.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is true. Dr. SCHOEN. This advertisement has within it the name of an organization which has been deemed subversive, therefore I decline to answer the question on the basis of the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the organization referred to ? Dr. SCHOEN (after conferring with counsel). You, and also the advertisement, or the photostatic copy which I just looked at, has in the corner of it the name "Civil Rights Congress."  INDUSTRY 1707 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you, in April 1951 chairman of a meeting of the Hollywood West Side Chapter of the Civil Rights Congress? Dr. SCHOEN. This question also refers to the same organization, therefore I decline to answer on the basis of the fifth amendment. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Schoen, the committee is in possession of infor- mation indicating that you attended a meeting of the Medical Council of the Southern California Chapter of the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions on the evening of August 23, 1951, and at that time it was decided to circularize the doctors and the dentists of this community with a letter relating to these hearings, and that during the course of the discussion of the matter a disagreement arose between you, Dr. Murray Abowitz, and Dr. Leo Bigelman, as to whether or not you three doctors should sign that letter. You disagreed with the other two and Mrs. Abowitz charged you with deviating from the policy; is that correct? Dr. SCHOEN. This question also refers to an organization which has been deemed subversive, therefore I refuse to answer on the basis of the fifth amendment. I wish to add, however, that you appear to be referring to activity in relation to public opinion, and that some of these alleged subversive activities, subversive lists, contain many, many organizations and have not been arrived at, as I understand it, through due process but have just been set up on the basis of one group or another, or someone's say so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give this committee the benefit of any information that you have which you think it should consider on the question of whether or not the organization known as the Southern California Chapter of the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions has been infiltrated by the Communist Party, or is in any sense under the influence or the control of the Communist Party ? Dr. SCHOEN (after conferring with counsel). You have again referred to an organization which has been deemed subversive. Therefore, I refuse to answer the question on the basis of the fifth amendment. However, I think that no lists should be compiled about organ- izations to which people belong to in a manner in which they have been done. This is my opinion-which has been done by this committee.
Mr. WooD. Well, counsel, sir, is giving you the highest possible opportunity now in this forum to give us any information you have on the subject as to whether or not this organization has been correctly labeled as a subversive organization. You are being given the opportunity now to give us any information you have on that subject in this forum. Do you still decline to do it? Dr. SCHOEN. I decline to answer the question on the basis of the fifth amendment.
Mr. WOOD. All right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ? Dr. SCHOEN. This question is similar to one asked before. There- fore I decline to answer on the basis of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party? Dr. SCHOEN. I decline to answer on the basis of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. 1708 
Mr. WooD. I yield to you, Mr. Walter. Are there any questions you may desire to ask ?
Mr. WALTER. Earlier in your testimony, in speaking of the Com- munist Party, you said that it was an organization considered subversive by this committee. I assure you that this committee isn't the only group that considers the Communist Party subversive. I think that even Communists, and even those who refuse to answer the question as to whether or not they are Communists, realize that the Communist Party in the Uninted States and the Communists in the United States are part and parcel of the conspiracy to gain control of the entire world and included in that group is yourself and your lawyer.
Mr. MARGOLIu. Are you attacking me, Mr. Walter ?
Mr. WALTER. I am not attackingMr. MARGOLIS. Will you give us an opportunity to make speeches, the same as you have, sir ?
Mr. WALTER. You have an opportunity, sir, at any time.
Mr. MARGOLIS. You take the liberty of using this forum to make speeches, sir, and I would like to have the liberty of doing the same thing.
Mr. WooD. One at a time.
Mr. WALTER. You will be given any opportunity you seek to deny the.charges that have been made that you, too, are a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. MARGOLIS. I don't consider it an opportunity to appear before this committee. I consider it a denial of constitutional rights to be forced to appear before this committee. Dr. SCHOEN. And Mr. WalterMr. WALTER. Just a minute. I am going to ask you a question, young man. You have stated that in your opinion the first amendment gives to you the right to remain silent as to one's political beliefs. 1 think that is true, but why do you remain silent if you are not afraid to let us know what your associations are ? Dr. SCHOEN. Mr. Walter, the right to speak or remain silent and the time at which one or the other should be done, I think, is something which I believe should be left to the individual. I do not consider this hearing to be the proper place to exercise the right to speak. I believe that this hearing is more or less of a public trial and that IMr. WALTER. Nobody is on trial for anything. We are seeking information. Dr. SCHOEN. I have been reading the newspapers the past few days, following these proceedings, naturally-they certainly concern me, since I was subpenaed-and, believe me, it appears as though the witnesses who have sat here in this chair have been tried before the public, and I don't think that the technicality is as important as the actual fact. I know just recently of a case in Florida where, I believe, two Negroes--where the press inflamed the community against them to such an extent that the appellate court reversed a conviction for a crime because the press incited the people of the community and the jury toMr. WALTER. You never miss an opportunity to appeal to minori- ties, do you ? Dr. SOHOEN. I believe that the minority groups in this country have- the right-  1709 
Mr. WALTER. Never mind that. We have been trying for many years to correct a lot of things, and it is becoming increasingly difficult because of your ilk. I want---Dr. SCHOEN. I hate to be put in the position of- 
Mr. WALTER. All right. Just a minute. I want to ask you a question, and I might suggest that you stick to your class. After all, you are not a lawyer. Don't advise us on the Constitution. If we want advice about dentistry we will come to you. Dr. SCHOEN. I am a citizen of the United States and, as such, have a right to discuss such things with Congressmen, I believe.
Mr. WALTER. All right. You have mentioned organizations that have been classified as subversive, without being given an opportunity to be heard. I would like to inform you that this committee has, on every occasion when organizations have come forward and demonstrated that a mistake has been made, corrected that mistake, and the information that we have concerning the organization that you are now afraid to discuss comes to us as a result of very thorough investigation made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Now, if the Communist Party is not subversive I suggest that somehow or other you communicate with the people in that organization, and I think you can reach them, and we will be very happy to give them the same opportunity we have given every other organization that feels that it hasn't been dealt with fairly. That is all, Mr. Wood.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle, any questions you desire to ask the witness ? Dr. SCH'OEN. First, I am not-I do not use my right under the fifth amendment because I am afraid, except afraid of an atmosphere of persecution and hysteria which might lead to prosecution, and the atmosphere--Mr. WALTER. Would you answer these same questions in executive session? Would you answer under oath these same questions if, at the conclusion of the hearing this morning, we put everybody out of the room and talked to you privately without any atmosphere of any sort? Dr. SCHOEN. I do not feel that this would appreciably change the atmosphere.
Mr. WALTER. It wouldn't change your testimony; of that I am convinced.
Mr. WooD. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, please. Doctor, I think I understood your answer to our distinguished legal counsel when he asked you if you held a Reserve commission now in the American military forces and you said, "I am not sure." Is that correct? Dr. SCHOEN. I know that I have not signed up for the Active Re- serves, but I am not sure of the ins and outs of the law concerning whether I am or am not still on inactive status. 
Mr.DOYE. Have you made any effort to find out in the last 2 years ? Dr. SCHOEN. I was told when I left, or I was given the impression, that this is something I do not have to worry about or concern myself with, so I have not done so. 
Mr. DOYLE. You are within the age bracket which might be called, though,. are you not, under the present emergency with Soviet communism in Korea? 1710 Dr. SCHOEN. In terms of the part of the question as to age bracket, I believe that I am young enough to be called; yes.
Mr. DOYLE. But you are not worrying about it. Have you traveled abroad in the last 5 or 6 or 7 years? Dr. SCHOEN. Well, I have beenMr. DOYLE. I mean, outside of any military duty. Dr. SCHOEN. I was going to try to figure whether my military duty occurred within that time, but other than that, I believe on vacations or week ends-I believe on some week ends I went to Mexico across the border, and, also, I took one trip to Canada, just a trip, and I was in Canada for 1 day.
Mr. DOYLE. At any time since you graduated from USC, from which I also graduated, and I am proud of it, have you traveled to Europe? Dr. SCHOEN. I have not.
Mr. DOYLE. Other than militaryDr. SCHOEN. My military service was in the Pacific so I have never been to Europe.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you traveled to Russia? Dr. SCHOEN. No. 
Mr. DOYLE. Or any of the Soviet Union countries? Dr. SCHOEN. No. 
Mr. DOYLE. Are you familiar with the statute under which this committee is operating at all, do you know what our assignment is by the United States Congress? Dr. SCHOEN. Well, in general terms, I believe it was established to investigate subversive activities in the United States.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you think that is a worthy objective? Dr. SCHOEN. This, I think, depends on the approach one has. This is my opinion.
Mr. DOYLE. This committee is assigned to investigate subversive people and propaganda. How would you indicate or recommend that we investigate it? Give us your recommendation, Doctor. We have been informed that you are a member of the Communist Party. We believe you are today, to be frank with you. You have exercised your right under the Constitution, the first and fifth amendments, to refuse to tell us whether or not you are. That's all right. We want you to stand on your constitutional rights at all times. Dr. SCHOEN. Thank you.
Mr. DOYLE. That is important, and it is the American way of life, contrary to the rights of Soviet Russia and other countries which are backed by the American Communists. But how would you recommend that this committee of the United States Congress investigate this? It is your Congress, Doctor, we represent your Congress, whether you claim us or not. We are under an express assignment and the text says we shall investigate subversive propaganda. How would you have us investigate it? We are investigating the Communist Party, for instance, of which we believe you are a member. How shall we go at it ? Dr. SCHOEN. Well, you ask me what recommendations I might have as to how this committee should investigate subversive activity and propaganda, and offhand I could suggest investigating, for instance, the recent riots which took place in Cicero, Ill., where a young Negro couple was by force and violence prohibited, or they were not able to occupy an apartment which they had rented. There was force and  1711 violence which occurred to prevent them from doing so. This, I believe to be extreme subversion of the Constitution of the United States and the democratic way of life. I might make this recommendationMr. DOYLE. IS there any connection with that unfortunate riot and with subversive propaganda instigated by a foreign government, for instance, Soviet communism? Dr. SCHOEN. You asked me whetherMr. DOYLE. That's right. Dr. SCHOEN. Whether I had any suggestions in regard to sub- versive activities.
Mr. DOYLE. That's right. Dr. SCHOEN. And I have made such a recommendation.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you any other recommendation? Dr. SCHOEN. Well, I might have many of them. I could for in- stance, recommend that I feel that the continued existence of the poll tax which prevents large sections of the American people, primarily Negro people and poor white people in the South, in many Southern States, from exercising their constitutional right to vote, and that this prevents free exercise of this right. This I feel to be subversion. I eel that the conduct of certain Congressmen and Senators in attempting to block this by filibustering is in a sense subversion, because it doesn't permit the American people to express their feelings on it.
Mr. DOYLE. No doubt, Doctor, you will recognize that the Con- gressman who is asking you these questions is lnot in that group, nor at any time during the 5 years I have been in Congress. I have deliberately given you a chance to give recommendations to this committee, and I am glad to see that you are anxious to protect the rights of the minority, in other words, the Negroes and the Jewish people and the poor whites. But, of course, that is the Communist line, to appeal to that group, and we understand that. But now have you any suggestion about the Communist Party which has been declared as subversive by J. Edgar Hoover, for instance, or his organization? In other words, it has been declared subversive. Now, give us your thought on investigating the Communist Party, please. You have given us two recommendations. I am asking you to talk about the one now that I am suggesting. How shall we do that ? Dr. SCHOEN. This question relates to an organization which has appeared on your list and is considered subversive by this committee; therefore I refuse to answer on the basis of the fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. You are not a very good sport, are you ? Dr. SCHOEN. I don't think this is a sporting situation, actually. 
Mr. DoYLE. It certainly is not. I gave you two chances and you wouldn't even give me one to get any help from you. One thing more. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. I anticipate a colleague of mine is going to ask you a question along the lines directed to you because you were a member of the military forces, and so I will not ask that question. What is there about the Communist Party, or about any of your affiliations with any group, Doctor, which makes you feel that you would be subject to prosecution in a criminal proceeding if you frankly helped 1712  this committee by helping us to understand how the groups you are a member of, subversive groups like the Communist Party, function? Dr. SCHOEN. This question also relates to the same organization mentioned beforeMr. DOYLE. That's right. Dr. SCHOEN. Therefore I refuse to answer on the basis of the fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. I am a much older man than you are, Doctor, and I just want to say to you that I pray to God that you get on your knees and see if you can't clean up some of your thinking and get out of this subversive outfit, and get over to the American line. I was in Alaska for 10 days and I heard the Moscow radio blasting the American people as being warmongers and charging that we stole Alaska from Catherine. I want to say to you again, why don't you get wise and get out of it and fight for the protection of the rights of all the people in the world instead of trying to direct your Government into Soviet communism? That's all I have to say.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. 'Dr. Schoen, would you take an oath to protect the United States against its enemies, foreign and domestic ? Dr. SCHOEN. Mr. Jackson, I was here yesterday and I have followed the hearings closely in the past few daysMr. JACKSON. I am willing to stipulate that you have been here for a long time. I simply want to know would you take such an oath to protect the United States against its enemies, foreign and domestic? Dr. SCHOEN. I feel, since this is a question of opinion, I don't believe that this is a simple question directed to me here on the witness stand by this committee. I don't think this is an open forum. However, I just wish to state that I think that this question, and what it might lead to, are questions which tend to inflame and to increase the war hysteria which is prevalent in this country today.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you telling the committee, Dr. Schoen, that it is inflammatory to state one's loyalty to one's own country ? Dr. SCHOEN. I think that I have demonstrated my loyalty to this country in my acts as a citizen sufficiently so that we don't have to go into-Mr. JACKSON. Would you enumerate the acts which you have contributed toward a greater and a finer and stronger nation? Just briefly. Dr. SCHOEN. I, first of all, have voted with regularityMr. JACKSON. The obligation of any citizen. Dr. SCHOEN. Unfortunately many citizens do not.
Mr. JACKSON. Unfortunately they do not. I do, however. Dr. SCHOEN. And cannot.
Mr. JACKSON. I exercise it all the time. We have that in common. Dr. SCHOEN. I also served in the Armed Forces and volunteered for overseas duty.
Mr. JACKSON. So did the majority of the members of this committee. We have that in common. Dr. SCHOEN. I am not arguing this.  1713 
Mr. JACKSON. I am merely pointing it out because I don't think I will have a chance to go back and retrace it. Dr. SCHOEN. Offhand I think that the kind of dentistry I practice, both in my private practice and also that I attempted to practice in the Army, some of the things I attempted to initiate in the way of public health talks to the soldiers in the Army in terms of their teeththis happens to be my field, dentistry. I think that this on a continuing basis has been proof and indication of this.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, so far as your lectures to the soldiers were concerned you were receiving a very good stipend, and that was your duty for which you were being paid. I don't consider that as any great obligation. Dr. SCHOEN. This was a new lecture series which I participated in, initiating it. It had not been done before some of us initiated it.
Mr. JACKSON. Back to the oath. Have you ever taken an oath to defend and protect the United States of America against all of its enemies, foreign and domestic ? Dr. SCHOEN (after conferring with counsel). I think that I have taken an oath more or less embodying that. Yes; I believe that I have.
Mr. JACKSON. Was that oath taken in good faith? Dr. SCHOEN (after conferring with counsel). I am sorry that I have to refer to counsel, this is notMr. WOOD. You have that privilege, sir, and there should be no comment about it. Dr. SCHOE'N. I always take my oaths in good faith.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you take such an oath today ? Dr. SCHOEN (after conferring with counsel). Of course.
Mr. JACKSON. I am amazed with the speed with which you responded after consultation with counsel. Dr. SCHOEN. I believe I have the right to consult.
Mr. JACKSON. No one is questioning your right to consult with counsel. You have been making quite a point of your rights. I don't think any of your rights have been infringed upon whatsoever. Dr. SCHOEN. I think my being here is an infringement.
Mr. JACKSON. Your past activities, which must be assumed to have been free and voluntary, have brought you to the stand. Mr. Potter didn't recruit you into the Communist Party, nor did any other member of the committee. I say that very frankly, because the evidence is very plain and very clear that you were and probably are at the present time a member of the Communist Party and I think the record should show that very, very clearly. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter, do you have any further questions ?
Mr. POTTER. Doctor, what has been your average income since you got out of the service ? Dr. SCHOEN. This is a question which is rather difficult for me to answer. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. POTTER. Approximately. Dr. SCHOEN. I am trying to answer it. I want to tell why I am vague in my answer. I happen to be a bad businessman, and I think, also, that I can't quite see the pertinence of this. However, I think that my average income probably has ranged-the maximum that it 1714 INDUSTRY has been was $7,000, or approximately so last year. I am not quite sure--this year it might be approximately $8,000, I am not sure.
Mr. PorrER. Doctor, you have had the benefit of enjoying a fine formal education. Under our form of government you have been able to meet a normal success in a very honored profession. I would say that the American way of life hasn't shackled you; that you have enjoyed the fruits of freedom that could not be received in any other country on the face of this earth. I say that you should be grateful to live in a society of free people in this country. And you are part of an organization that would overthrow the very thing that has made you a successful man and given you an opportunity to enjoy a way of life that you otherwise wouldn't have enjoyed if you were a part of a system behind the iron curtain. (The witness conferred with his counsel.) 
Mr. PoTER. I say, Doctor, that you are a very ungrateful person and a very dangerous man. That's all, Mr. Chairman. Dr. SCHOEN. I would just like to say, since Mr. Potter directed his remarks at me, that there is a difference of opinion here. In my opinion, it is the committee which is helping to destroy some of the things which Mr. Potter mentioned.
Mr. WooD. What, for instance? Dr. SCHOEN. I think that by conducting what I characterized earlier, what I believed was more or less of a public trial, that this committee is helping to destroy some of the rights of free speech and freeMr. WooD. By that, do you mean, sir, that it is your opinion that the Congress of the United States should permit, unhampered, the practice of the Communist philosophy in this country, the spreading of an ideology that is designed to overthrow the very Government that you have been successful in your business and living under, and it should permit it to be done without raising a hand to investigate it or expose it ? Is that what you mean to say ? Dr. SCHOEN. Your question relates to an organization which has philosophies which have been deemed subversive. Therefore, I refuse to answer the question.
Mr. WOOD. Don't you think you are being extremely unfair to me when you raise that question, yourself, and say that we are engaged in an investigation that you yourself are criticizing(Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. WOOD (continuing). And then, when I ask you to elucidate on the subject, you take shelter behind a provision of the very Constitution that the people who belong to the organization that you are said to belong to believe in overthrowing and destroying? Dr. SCHOEN. I don't believe that one can use the term "taking shelter behind the Constitution." I think the Constitution protects the rights of individuals and that by utilizing it one is helping to defend the Constitution. In terms of opinion, I also feel that investigations into ideas is also prohibited by the Constitution, and that is why I have voiced criticism.
Mr. WooD. But there is no duty on you to take shelter behind the fifth amendment. It is a privilege that is extended to you. If you want to exercise it, nobody requires you to take that shelter. I grant you the perfect right to do it. Nobody gainsays that right. The Con-  INDUSTRY 1715 stitution gives you that pivilege, but it never was the intention of the lawmakers of this land to require anybody to take advantage of it. It is put there for their protection but not for their shelter against an accusation that doesn't incriminate them, and when a man says that to answer a question would tend to incriminate him, when, in fact, it wouldn't, he speaks falsely. Dr. SCHOEN. I think you are implying certain things which you have no right to imply in relationMr. WOOD. Namely, what? Dr. SCHOEN (continuing). To my testimony.
Mr. WooD. Just name one of them. Dr. SCHOEN. When a witness used the fifth amendment to the Constitution, I believe that there is no implication that may be drawn from the use of this fifth amendment. I am not an attorney. However, I believe I know this much, and I refer you to my counsel for further discussion of that.
Mr. WooD. Let's put a page right down there and see if there isn't. When a man says to answer a question would incriminate him but that he is not guilty of the charge or accusation or implication involved in the question, then he is either guilty of one or two things: If, in fact, to answer the question truthfully would not incriminate him, then his statement that it would is false. Now, there isn't any escape from that conclusion. If I say that to answer a question whether or not I am a member of the Baptist Church would incriminate me, I obviously speak falsely; but, if I am not a member of the Baptist Church, to say that I am not a member of it certainly would not in any way or degree incriminate me. You have been asked whether or not you are a member of the Communist Party. If you are not a member of that party, then the correct answer would be that you are not and, certainly, no incriminating implications can be involved there, but when you say that to answer it would tend to incriminate you, and follow that up with an insinuation that you are not a member of it, is just simply plain double talk. Dr. SCHOEN. Mr. Wood, I think you are misinterpreting the Constitution of the United States. I have stated that an answer might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. WOOD. I understood what you said. Dr. SCHOEN. As I understand the law, you have no right to draw any implication whatsoever from that. However, since I am not a lawyer, I do refer you to my counsel for this discussion. It is a kind of legal discussion. However, I do believe that you have misinterpreted the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. WOOD. Well, to answer the question of whether you are a Communist or not would incriminate you or it wouldn't. If you say it would incriminate you, it leaves one conclusion in my mind and in the mind of every other fair-minded person within sound of your voice. Now, if, in fact, you are not a member of it, then your statement that it would tend to incriminate you isn't a true statement.
Mr. MARGOLIS. Mr. Wood, you have asked a legal question. May I comment on it?
Mr. WooD. I don't care to be involved in any legal discussion with counsel.
Mr. MARGOLIS. That is what it has been up to this point with a layman. 81595-51-pt. 5--6 1716 
Mr. WOOD. I am sure that counsel's opinion on the subject and mine could never be reconciled with respect to this particular subject we have under investigation, and we couldn't accomplish any good purpose by entering into a discussion about it.
Mr. MARGOLIS. That is quite right, but I will cite authorities to support my position.
Mr. WOOD. Yes. Mr. Counsel, have you any further questions ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Is there any reason that you know why he shouldn't be excused from further attendance on this committee? 
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. So ordered. Who do you have now
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Elizabeth Wilson.
Mr. WOOD. Are you Mrs. Elizabeth Wilson?
Mrs. WILSON. Yes; I am.
Mr. WOOD. Will you put up your right hand and be sworn, please? You do solemnly swear that the evidence you give before this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mrs. WILSON. I do. 
Mr. WOOD. Mrs. Wilson, are you represented by counsel?
Mrs. WIsoN. I have been advised of my legal rights andMr. WOOD. And you do not desire the presence of counsel?
Mrs. WILSON. No. 
Mr. WooD. Very well. If at any time during the progress of your interrogation you should determine that you find yourself in need of counsel, you will be given an opportunity to procure it.
Mrs. WILsoN. Thank you very much.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will wait until the photographers are finished.
Mr. WOOD. Proceed, Counsel. TESTIMONY OF ELIZABETH WILSON 