Mr. JARRICO. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel  275 
Mr. JARRICO. Yes; I am. By Mr. Margolis and by Mr. Kenny.
Mr..TAVENNER. Will you please state your full name, place of birth, and your age.
Mr. JARRICO. Well, my full name is Israel Paul Jarrico, though I am known personally and professionally and legally as Paul Jarrico. I was born in Los Angeles, Calif., on January 12, 1915, and I reside at 320 South Sherbourne Drive, Los Angeles 48, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a brief statement of your educational background ?
Mr. JARRICO. I was educated in the public schools of Los Angeles. I attended the University of California at Los Angeles, the University of California at Berkeley. I graduated from the University of Southern California in 1936 with a degree of bachelor of arts.
Mr. TAVENNER. How are you now employed ? 
Mr. JARRICO. Well, until 2 weeks ago I was a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your last employment? 
Mr. JARICO. I was employed at RKO Radio Pictures until the day I received a subpena from this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a statement of your employment record, please?
Mr. JARRICO. Well, it is a rather long one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Briefly.
Mr. JARRICO. I will try to summarize it. I first obtained employ- ment in the motion-picture industry in 1937, and have been employed more or less continuously since by practically every studio in Hollywood, except for a brief time I spent in the merchant marine and a short time I spent in the United States Navy.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the last screen play on which you were employed?
Mr. JARRICO. The last screen play on which I was employed was The Las Vegas Story, which is currently shooting in Hollywood, with Jane Russell and Victor Mature. I urge you all to see it.
Mr. TAVENNER. By what company were you employed?
Mr. JARRICO. RKO Radio Pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who employed you?
Mr. JARRICO. I was employed by the studio.
Mr. TAVENNER. The studio must have had an official representative, of course, in making the employment. Who was he ? 
Mr. JARRICO. Well, my immediate producer was Mr. Robert Sparks. However, I must protest at this point. It seems to me an attempt to create the basis for a blacklist in Hollywood, on the basis of guilt by employment, guilt by the mere fact that you employ a man. 
Mr. Sparks, a conservative gentleman, I am sure, employed me because he thought I was the best man to do that particular job, and not be- cause of my politics. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you engaged in screen-play writing along with Richard Collins ? 
Mr. JARRICO. Yes. He was my collaborator for several years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time was he a collaborator with you?
Mr. JARRICO. From the fall of 1941 until the summer of 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were present, I believe, at this hearing room during the giving of his testimony yesterday ? 81595-51-pt. 1---15 276 INDUSTRY 
Mr. JARRICO. Yes; I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I suppose you heard his testimony, in which he .stated that you were a member of the Communist Party
Mr. JARRICO. I heard his testimony in regard to a great many things. I heard him attempting to purge himself before this committee and perjuring himself before this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he perjure himself in regard to his statement that you were a member of the Communist Party
Mr. JARRICO. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then what did you mean by stating that he perjured himself in his testimony here ? 
Mr. JARRICO. I refuse to answer that question, also, on the same grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And what is that ground ? 
Mr. JARRICO. That it may tend to incriminate me. That doesn't mean that it would incriminate me. It just means that it might tend to; that it might subject me to prosecution, not to conviction. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, for you to answer the question would put you in fear that you might be prosecuted for some criminal offense?
Mr. JARRICO. It might place me in jeopardy; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you receive your subpena to appear before this committee ? 
Mr. JA.RICO. I believe the date was March 23. I am not completely certain. I believe that is the correct date. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you confer with Mr. Collins about his ap- pearance-Mr. Richard Collins, about his appearance before this committee after you were served your subpena to appear here ?
Mr. JAmuco. I refuse to answer that question on the same ground.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you referred to Mr. Richard Collins "perjur- ing himself" before this committee, were you referring in any way to his testimony as to the occasion when you visited him with regard to his testimony before this committee ?
Mr. JARRIco. I have already refused to answer the same question, phrased rather differently. I believe it is the same question. At any rate, to make it clear, I refuse to answer this question also, on the same ground.
Mr. TAVENNER. You refuse to answer in what particular? You have in mind with regard to Mr. Collins' testimony when you said that he perjured himself before this committee ?
Mr. JARRICO. That's correct.
Mr. VELDE. Counsel, is the word "perjured" or "purged"?
Mr. JARRICO. I used both words. I used "purge" and "perjury." I think the line between them is very thin. I wonder if I might at this point introduce a statement, Mr. Chair- man. I have sat here all day yesterday and heard my patriotism maligned, my loyalty impugned. I wonder whether I might read a fairly short statement, which states quite concisely my attitude toward my country and toward this committee.
Mr. WooD. We are giving you the opportunity to answer whatever questions are asked you here, which are intended to reflect on that very subject matter. At the conclusion of your testimony, we will be happy , INDUSTRY 277 to have you file for the record here any statement that you desire to make.
Mr. JARICo. I can only answer the questions that are presented to me when I am being cross-examined. However, in my statement I am able to make a more considered statement of my position.
Mr. WooD. Following the custom and practice of the committee, you will be given the privilege of filing that statement with the committee for the record when you have finished your testimony.
Mr. JARRICO. I would like to reply publicly.
Mr. WooD. In this connection, sir, I would like to, if I may, Mr. Counsel interpose at this point this observation: Perjury is a rather grave offense, not only under our law but under every moral code that I know anything about. Now you have leveled a charge against a man that you say was your collaborator for several years in the same industry that you are in; that he has deliberately committed that offense here before this committee yesterday. Don't you think, when you make that charge yourself, that you owe it to yourself; you owe it to Mr. Collins; you owe it to the American people, and particularly the people in your industry, to inform this committee as to just how and in what manner you contend that he swore falsely before this committee yesterday? Don't you think, in fairness to every conception of decency and common justice and honesty, that you owe it to the people of America, and particularly in your industry, to let them know in what particular you claim he swore falsely?
Mr. JARRICO. I shall issue a statement and otherwise communicate.
Mr. WooD. You are under oath now. Under your oath you have sworn that he committed perjury. One or the other of you is swearing falsely. He has pin-pointed his testimony. Don't you think you ought to pin-point yours ?
Mr. JARRICO. This is not my forum, Mr. Chairman, and this is not the place for me to discuss my differences with Mr. Collins. I don't choose to do it here.
Mr. DOYLE. May I suggest this: I think, Mr. Jarrico, you were not being questioned by our counsel or by anyone else as to whether or not it was your opinion that Mr. Collins had perjured himself. You volunteered the statement to this committee. We were not asking you whether or not he perjured himself. You yourself volunteered the charge that he perjured himself.
Mr. JARRICO. I was asked a question based on an assertion that Mr. Collins made here yesterday. I answered that question by saying that I refused to answer that question, and that I refuse to consider Mr. Collin's testimony here as truthful. Now, that is my position. I don't intend to discuss with you wherein it was untruthful or wherein it was truthful.
Mr. DOYLE. The only reason I brought it to your attention is that you volunteered the charge that he had perjured himself. We had not asked you whether or not he perjured himself or testified falsely. I just wanted to make that suggestion to you.
Mr. JARRICO. My answer stands, sir.
Mr. WooD. Continue the questioning.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party ? 278 
Mr. JARRICO. I refuse to answer that question on the ground that it might tend to incriminate me, as I shall refuse to answer any question regarding my political affiliations or activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr.'Chairman, I have no further questions.
Mr. WOOD. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. I think I have one or two for the gentleman. The state- ment that you were born in Los Angeles means that you are also a native son, as I am, of California,.
Mr. JARRICO. I am.very proud of it, Mr. Doyle as you are.
Mr. DOYLE. I note you also graduated from USC, and so did I. We are both American citizens. I assume, Mr. Jarrico, that you would be interested in helping this committee to uncover any person or any group of persons who were subversive in their attitude toward the constitutional form of government in our Nation. Is my assumption correct?
Mr. JABRIoO. Mr. Doyle, I should be happy to help this committee uncover subversion, but one man's subversion is another man's patriotism. I consider the activities of this committee subversive of the American Constitution.
Mr. DoyiE. Well, I assumed you did when you refused to answer a minute ago. (Representative Harold H. Velde left the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. Now, as long as this is.a committee in good faith under- taking to serve our Nation, I am going to ask you a frank question. I think no member of the committee has asked quite this kind of question. Why do you feel this committee's function is subversive of American rights and citizenship ? You have made a statement that we are unAmerican. That means that under Webster's dictionary we are undertaking to overthrow the foundation of our constitutional government. You realize that; don't you ?
Mr. JARRICO. I certainly do.
Mr. DOYLE. In what way is this committee undertaking to over- throw the constitutional form of government of this Nation?
Mr. JAmuRco. Well, if I might read my statement, I think it covers that point very specifically.
Mr. DoYLE. Well, I am not asking you to read a statement. As long as you prepared a statement, you certainly are qualified to answer my question briefly, not to read a dissertation. You made a pretty serious charge, under Webster's definition of "subversiveness," when you say this committee is subversive in its conduct.
Mr. JARRICO. Sir, I believe this country was founded on the doctrine of freedom, the right of a man to advocate anything he wishes-advocate it, agitate for it, organize for it, attempt to win a majority for it. And I think that any committee that intimidates people, that makes it impossible for people to express their opinions freely, is subverting the basic doctrine of the United States and of its Constitution.
Mr. DOYLE. And does your philosophy go to the point of feeling that the'United States Congress, when it created this law, Public Law 601, and set up this committee, was controverting and destroying the rights of American citizens ?  279 
Mr. JARRICO. I am certain that Congress had no such intention. However, 10 of my friends, very dear friends, have gone to jail for coming before this body and saying that Congress may not investigate in any area in which it may not legislate, and since the Constitution of the United States specifically states that Congress shall make no law restricting the freedom of speech, and since countless decisions of the courts have held that this provision of the Constitution means that Congress cannot investigate into areas of opinion, of conscience, of belief, I believe that in asking that those men be cited for contempt of Congress and in successfully sending these men to jail, that this committee has subverted the meaning o7 the American Constitution; yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Those 10 men were cited and convicted under the laws of our country, and when the courts held them guilty, were the courts subversive, in your opinion ? 
Mr. JARRICO. The Supreme Court never ruled on the basic doctrine involved. I would like to think that some day it will, and that the stand that the 10 took will be recognized historically along with the stand that Jefferson took against the alien and sedition laws.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, now, let me ask you this question: Do I under- stand your testimony correctly then that when the Federal court held these 10 men guilty that you hold that that court was subversive of the rights of American citizens?
Mr. JARRICO. The courts have made errors before.
Mr. DOYLE. I am asking you a fair question.
Mr. JARRICO. I do not blame the courts. I blame this committee for its attempt to deny people the right to their opinions.
Mr. DOYLE. Yes, but this committee was not the Federal court. I am asking you a frank question, whether or not the federal court was guilty of subversive conduct when it held these men guilty.
Mr. JAmRICO. The courts also upheld the alien and sedition laws. The courts also in the famous Dred Scott decision upheld slavery.
Mr. DOYLE. I am asking you a fair question, am I not? If it is not a fair question, tell me so and I will ask you another question.
Mr. JARRICO. I have said that the courts in upholding the contempt citations against these men, in my opinion, contributed toward the general destruction of liberty in this country.
Mr. DOYLE. All right.
Mr. WOOD. Just a moment. Let the record show that Mr. Jackson, a member of the committee, has departed the committee, but there is now present Mr. Velde, which still constitutes a quorum of the committee.
Mr. DOYLE. I will ask you another question, Mr. Jarrico, and if you think the form of my question is not fair I want you to tell me so, because I am trying in good faith to be fair. I am not trying to take any advantage of you or lay any groundwork for any persecution. I think you said that you believed that the American citizen had the right to advocate anything he wished to ? 
Mr. JARRICO. That's correct.
Mr. DOYLE. Do I understand, therefore, that you think an Ameri- can citizen has the right to advocate the forceful overthrow of our constitutional form of government ? 280 
Mr. JARRIco. I believe he may advocate it. INDUSTRY I believe that it is un- likely he will get a great response to such a thing. I want to make it clear that I am personally opposed to the overthrow of this Government by force and violence and to the use of force and violence. However, President Lincoln said that the people of this country have the right to revolution, if necessary, if the democratic processes are clogged, if the people can no longer exercise their will by constitutional means.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you know of any organization in the United States that is regulated from within the United States that advocates the forceful overthrow of the constitutional form of government? Do you know of any organization that does ?
Mr. JARRICO. Well, the McCarran Act, the Smith ActMr. DOYLE. I am asking you about an organization. Do you know of any organization? 
Mr. JARRICO. I am answering that question, sir. I am saying that various acts passed by the United States Congress have defined certain organizations as organizations which advocate the overthrow of this Government. I do not necessarily agree with these definitions.
Mr. DOYLE. I am not asking you whether you agree with the definition or not. I am asking you as man to man in good faith whether or not you know any such organization. I am assuming that you as an American citizen are interested in protecting our American form of government against forceful revolution. If my assumption is wrong, of course the basis of my question is wrong. I am not asking you whether or not you are a member of any such organization, you notice. I am not asking that question. You have stood on your constitutional right under the fifth amendment. I am not asking you in that area. But I am just assuming as man to man that you, if you know of any organization in America that favors that policy, in good faith will come out and tell us so.
Mr. JARRICO. Well, sir, this committeeMr. DOYLE. Do you know of any such organization ?
Mr. JARPICO. According to this committee, every organization that has advocated peace in this countryMr. DOYLE. Just a minute. That question can be answered "Yes" or "No." We have other witnesses from Hollywood here. We want to have them be heard, too, so they can get home over the weekend.
Mr. JARRICO. By your definition, sir, every organization that has stood for decency and progress, the New Deal, against discrimination, for peace, and so on-these organizations are all allied with an organization which advocates the overthrow of this Government. I do not accept that definition.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, you don't accept the definition of Mr. Webster's dictionary.
Mr. JARRICO. Yes, I do accept the definition of Mr. Webster. 
Mr. DOYLE. I am asking you whether or not, under the definition of
Mr. Webster, you know of any organization in this country that advo- cates what Mr. Webster says is subversive conduct, that's all. That is what I am asking you. I am assuming that you want to help protect the American Government.
Mr. JARRICO. If I knew of such an organization, sir, I should help you to expose it.  281 
Mr. DOYLE. Do you know of any individual that is interested in that?
Mr. JARRICO. If I knew of such an individual, sir, I should help you to expose him.
Mr. DOYLE. All right. Now, one more question. In answer to our counsel you stated that you believed that our functioning as a committee was to form the basis of a blacklist. Why do you believe this committee is interested in blacklisting people so they can't get employment, if they are honest, patriotic citizens. Is that your statement?
Mr. JARRICO. You are not interested in that end, but you had better revise your methods, because your methods have had that end. I know of many people who are blacklisted in Hollywood as a result of the hearings in 1947, and I know that today the basis is being laid for an increase of that blacklist, so that anyone who has advocated anything progressive is going to be a suspect. And the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals, quaintly named, is going to be the organization in Hollywood that decides who shall work and who shall not work, what pictures shall be made and what pictures shall not be made, and this is an organization that upholds this committee and thinks it is doing a splendid job in exposing so-called "Reds."
Mr. DOYLE. What is the name of that committee ?
Mr. JARRICO. The Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals. You should know it very well, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. But I don't happen to know it, sir. You see, there are many of us, Mr. Jarrico, in spite of your assumption, that are just as much interested as you are in protecting the rights of American citizens and are just as progressive and just as patriotic toward liberal thinking, whether you believe it or not. I wish to. state-I know for myself, and I state it for myself and I state it for every member of the committee-that we are not interested in blacklisting anyone. I wouldn't be true to my duty as a citizen if I allowed you to charge that we are without denying it. But I will say this: My own belief is that you gentlemen who come to this committee and unalterably claim the fifth amendment and the first amendment when we get into the area of questioning you about the organizations you have been or are members of, are making it very difficult for this committee as a committee of Congress to function.
Mr. JARRICO. I feel I am defending the Constitution, sir, and not hiding behind it. I feel that sincerely. And I feel that if you were sincere in your declarations against blacklisting that you should make it plain that people who claim their constitutional privileges should not be discriminated against in Hollywood, because Hollywood has the impression that you intend everyone who is called before this committee and who does not cooperate with this committee to be driven from the industry.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jarrico, I must at this point challenge that statement, ih the interest of the members of this committee, with whom I have served for some time and for whom I have the highest regard. No man has ever come before this committee yet and answered truthfully and frankly the questions that have been put to him who has ever, to my knowledge, been injured thereby. If people are being deprived of any rights or privileges of employment because of their appearance before this committee, it has been because of matters that 282 INDUSTRY they themselves have brought out, and not this committee. If being a member of a subversive organization and admitting such causes a man to lose some employment rights, that is his responsibility and not this committee's. If he declines to answer whether he has or not and thereby loses employment rights, that likewise is his responsibility and not this committee's. This committee has never yet been responsible for any man being a member of any organization, subversive or otherwise. The only thing on earth that this committee has ever attempted to do or is attempting to do now is to ascertain, under the functions it is charged with carrying out by the very act of the Congress that created it, what activities in the realm of subversiveness in this country are going on and who is being responsible for it.
Mr. DOYLE. I wish to thank my distinguished chairman for making that clarification. May I ask you one more question, Mr. Jarrico ? The law states that the purpose of our investigation is to report to Congress any necessary remedial legislation in the field of subversive conduct. Have you any suggestion of any remedial legislation that we should report to Congress ? It states that in the law. That is why I am asking you in good faith.
Mr. JARRIco. Well, I have one. You might revise your guide to subversive organizations and publications issued by this committee. It includes, for instance, the Hollywood Democratic Committee, and without wishing to embarrass you, Congressman Doyle, perhaps you remember that that committee contributed to your campaign and wrote speeches for your campaign. It is listed here as a subversive organization.
Mr. DOYLE. I don't remember that. I don't think I had any knowledge of it. I have many friends in Hollywood, both in and out of the industry. But be that as it may, have you any suggestion as to how the functioning of this committee should be remedied? That is what I am asking you. How shall we revise the list if we can't get the help of people like you that are informed? How can we get the help to remedy the legislation?
Mr. JARRICO. Well, I think that if you made it absolutely clear that you were defending the first amendment and the fifth amendment and the people who defended those amendments, instead of subjecting them to blacklisting and other liability, that you would be doing a great service to the country.
Mr. DOYmL. Well, I wish to state this, and this is my final question. I am very sure, Mr. Jarrico, that no member of this committee is interested in any way less than you are in protecting the rights of the American citizens under the first and fifth amendments. But apparently your considered opinion and conclusion differs with that of members of the committee as to ways and means in which we are charged with doing that.
Mr. JARRICo. Well, I can't see where you can pretend for a moment that you are protecting the first and fifth amendments when everything you have done is directed toward abridging them, curtailing them, limiting them, subverting them.
Mr. DoYLE. This is my final question, Mr. Chairman. Do you mean then that this committee in calling you, for instance, as a typical case-that when this committee subpenas you to come  283 and be questioned about what you know, if anything, about subversive people or organizations, that we are controverting your constitutional rights under the first and fifth amendments?
Mr. JARRICo. I certainly do.
Mr. DOYLE. Then you take the position that the Congress has no right to call people before it and to question them as to their philosophy and whether or not it favors the forceful overthrow of our Government?
Mr. JARRICO. Congress has no right to legislate in this area. It can- not pass any law restricting the freedom of speech, and therefore it has no right to investigation in this area. It cannot inquire into a man's opinions, his attitudes, his beliefs of any kind. That is my firm position; yes.
Mr. DoYLI. Well, the reason I pressed you for your opinion is that I feel that the committee should have considered opinion. As long as you stand on the first and fifth amendments, I wanted the basis upon which you stood.
Mr. JARRICO. You have it, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Can you tell me the name of the producer of Out- rageous Story?
Mr. JARRIOo. I alredy have introduced that name into the record under protest. It was Robert Sparks.
Mr. KEARNEY. Can you tell me who the script writer was?
Mr. JARRICO. I was.
Mr. KEARNEY. And the director?
Mr. JARRIco. Robert Stephenson. Again I wish to say that you are trying to intimidate these people.
Mr. KEARNEY. Just a moment. I want to ask a question. question I want a "Yes" or "No" answer. To this Do you believe the Communist Party is dedicated to the overthrow of the United States Government by force or violence?
Mr. JARRICO. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previ- ously stated.
Mr. KEARNEY. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter? questions for the witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. Counsel, do you have any further 
Mr. WOOD. Do you want to hold the witness for further questioning later or should he be excused ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I suggest he be excused. 
Mr. JARRICO. May I introduce my statement now, sir?
Mr. WOOD. File it with the reporter. (The statement referred to was filed with the records of the committee.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Meta Reis Rosenberg.
Mr. WOOD. Raise your right hand. You solemnly swear the testi- mony you give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I do. 
Mr. WOOD. Be seated, please. For the purpose of examining this witness, let the record show that the same number of the committee are present: Mr. Doyle, Mr. Velde, Mr. Kearney, Mr. Potter, and
Mr. Wood. 284 INDUSTRY TESTIMONY OF META REIS ROSENBERG 