Mr. GOLDBERG. Philip Goldberg.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record?
Mr. RYKOFF. Yes. Richard L. Rykoff, R-y-k-o-f-f.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Goldberg?
Mr. GOLDBERG. Philadelphia, Pa., August 27, 1918.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mr. GOLDBERO. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided here?
Mr. GOLDBERG. From the middle of 1949 to the present.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what profession are you engaged?
Mr. GOLDBERG. I am a musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you practice your profession prior to 1949, and if so where?
Mr. GOLDBERo. Yes; would you like a rundown on its
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; and give also your formal educational training while doing so.
Mr. GOLDBERG. Public school education in Philadelphia; graduate of Curtis Institute in 1941; member of the All American Youth Orchestra under Stokowski, North American tour. At this point I came to Los Angeles, June of 1941, as a member of the Janssen Symphony. I worked for major motion picture studios, enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1943, mustered out in 1946 in the East. First viola staff NBC radio in Philadelphia; first viola Philadelphia LaScala Opera Co.; free-lance in New York, 1947 to 1949; Broadway shows, I was a relief viola in NBC Symphony; viola appearances WNYC; Brooklyn Museum, and other extensive appearances in the concert field. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3949 In 1949, about May, I believe, I came to Los Angeles again as a member of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, and then a member of the Paramount Pictures Recording Orchestra. At the present time I am a free-lance violist in the studios if this committee doesn't interfere with my right to work in this field and first violist in the Los Angeles Chamber Symphony.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have been in the area of Los Angeles on two occasions, one between 1941 and 1942, and the other from 1949 until the present, is that correct?
Mr. GOLDBERG. From 1941 to 1943. I went into the Army in 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. In this latter period, from 1949 to the present time, have you been a member of the Musicians Branch of the Communist Party in Los Angeles?
Mr. GOLDBERG. I am going to decline to answer that question. And I wish to state that I do so of my own free will, not urged to or compelled to. I searched my own conscience, and I believe that the only recourse open to a man who doesn't have the back of a question mark is to decline to answer that question on the grounds that this committee is probing into areas that I feel are not within its jurisdiction. I decline on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Musicians Branch of the Communist Party in Los Angeles between 1941 and 1943
Mr. GOLDBERG. You know the answer to that one, Mr. Tavenner. I have sat here for several days hearing testimony, and a man who willMr. TAVENNER. Yes; I think I know.
Mr. GOLDBERG. A man who will decline to answer on your first question will certainly decline on every other basis within this area of discussion.
Mr. MOULDER. I am interested in your statement you made to counsel that he might know the answer to that question. Would you submit to counsel answering the question for you ?
Mr. GOLDBERG. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you decline to answer the question ?
Mr. GOLDBERG. I do so on the same grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. GOLDBERG. I decline also on the same grounds for the reasons stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Questions, Mr. Doyle? (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. DOYLE. In view of your statement that you have sat here in the hearing room several days, therefore you must have heard able musicians other than yourself?
Mr. GOLDBERG. Most able.
Mr. DOYLE. I beg your pardon ?
Mr. GOLDBERe. Most able and most respected.
Mr. DOYLE. That is right. You have heard other able, most respected musicians who have cooperated with the committee and who have stated that at one time they were members of the Communist Party. They have informed this committee of their activities in the Communist Party as members 3950 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA of the musicians' group. Now, I presume that the people whom you classify as men with a question mark for a back are the able musicians who also have been members of distinguished orchestras and musical groups. Am I wrong? Do you classify?
Mr. GOLDBERG. I was referring in the question mark to a geometrical design in which they do not stand like men with straight backs and defy this committee.
Mr. DovLE. I see. Then you classify the members of your own high profession who have testified and cooperated with this committee as not men. Is that your classification of your fellow musicians?
Mr. GOLDBERG. I will not discuss my fellow musicians with you,
Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I can see the opinion you have of your fellow musicians who have testified to help the United States Congress. You have identified them for me all right. But I also recognize them as I do you, members of a most valuable group of citizens, lending a lot of joy and happiness to the world, because you have heard me say here that I recognize music as a universal language. But I am disappointed in you, one fine musician, coming in and condemning other fine musicians on the ground that they are not men because they cooperated with the United States Congress. That is what you have done.
Mr. GOLDBERG. The only recourse open to me, and the only criterion for being a friendly witness before this committee is to name names.
Mr. DoYLE. I am not criticizing you if you plead your amendment in good faith. But I do criticize you for condemning and criticizing other distinguished musicians for doing what they felt was their conscientious duty in good faith. I am surprised.
Mr. GOLDBERG. I would like to say, Mr. Doyle, that if there is such to-do about looking for subversion, I would suggest that you create 10 committees like this to go down into the South and see about the difficulties and the denial of rights of millions of Negroes down there and a member of our own Congress who has defined the Supreme Court ruling. I respect my institutions. I respect the Constitution. I respect the Supreme Court.
Mr. DOYLE. If you will look out for the subversion in the musicians group not too far from you, maybe you will find some closer at hand in years past. But may I say again, I am disappointed in you, a high-class artist in music, condemning, bawling out, and criticizing other distinguished musicians because they have done what they conscientiously believe to be right, the same as you say you have. Why don't you let the other man have his rights in America, too
Mr. GOLDBERG. Mr. Doyle, I am disappointed in you who seem to have had a fairly good labor record to come here and pillory individuals, innocent individuals like myself.
Mr. DoLE. I am proud of my labor record.
Mr. GOLDBERG. I am just as patriotic as you.
Mr. DOYLE. I don't deny that. I am proud of my labor record as an American Congressman.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. NO. 
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused. The hearing will stand in recess for 5 minutes. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3951 (Whereupon, a short recess was taken, there being present Representatives Moulder, Doyle, and Scherer.) (The subcommittee was reconvened upon the expiration of the recess: Present Representatives Moulder, Doyle, Jackson, and Scherer.)
Mr. MOULDER. The committee will be in order.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you come forward, Mr. Joe Eger, please, sir?
Mr. MOULDER. Hold up your right hand and be sworn, please, Mr. Eger. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. EGER. I do, Mr. Moulder. TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH EGER, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, WILLIAM M. BRINTON 