Mr. STEVENSON. Mr. Chairman, I, too, have received a telephone call lately which might be pertinent to consider before my testimony begins. I received a call from somebody the other day who said that he was
Mr. McCarthy of the Associated Press. He said that he had heard that I had received a subpena and wanted to know if this was true. I said I didn't know the fact had been published but it was true, and he said did I have a statement to make. I made a very brief offhand statement, he thanked me, asked if I was presently employed in the motion-picture industry and I said, "No; I was not at the moment." He thanked me again and hung up. This matter I reported to my counsel, Mr. Kenny. Mr. Kenny said he knew of no Mr. McCarthy on the AP, but said he would check. He checked with the AP, found there was no such person and checked with other newspapers and found that no newspaper employed a person of that name. I think the trouble with many of us who are subjected to these hearings have been plagued with hoax telephone calls, and I thought you would be interested in hearing this.
Mr. WooD. Very interesting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Stevenson, what is your full name, please?
Mr. STEVENSON. Philip Edward Stevenson.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. STEVENSON. I was born in New York December 31, 1896.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. STEVENSON. I am a black-listed screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been a screen writer
Mr. STEVENSON. I have been a screen writer only occasionally since the spring of 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your educational training for your profession ?
Mr. STEVENSON. I am afraid that is a long story, but I will try to give it to you. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Not in every detail, but just in a general way.
Mr. STEVENSON. Right. I attended private schools in the East and an eastern university, and if I am reluctant to name these institutions it is because no names, either of persons or institutions, come off very well from being heard in one of these hearings and, particularly in the case of these two, their emblematic color was red in each instance, which seems to compound the difficulty. 1614 
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask you if that fact had anything to do with your deciding to go to those two schools ?
Mr. STEVENSON. It had nothing to do with it. It had none whatever.
Mr. WOOD. At this point, I neglected to do so at the beginning of the testimony, I would like the record to show that of the subcommittee there are present Messrs. Walter, Jackson, Potter, and Wood, a quorum.
Mr. STEVENSON. The school was the Pomphret School in Connecti- cut, and the university was Harvard University in Massachusetts. I did not finish my 4 years at Harvard because World War I was declared, and on the day of the declaration of war I left college with the intention of joining a service. I had had poliomyelitis, and my right leg was somewhat affected, so I doubted that I could get into the Army where hiking was a major part of the routine, but after 3 weeks I joined the Navy and was accepted for immediate duty on board ship. We sailed for overseas within a couple of months-less than 2 monthsand I served overseas until September of 1919. I should say that in the spring of 1918, or late spring, I went before a medical commission, a medical board in preparation for taking examinations for a commission, and at that time it was discovered that I was suffering from a slight case of pulmonary tuberculosis. As a result, although I took the examinations for the commission and passed them, I was not commissioned. However, I was observed for a week at a naval hospital, and at the end of that time I was returned to my ship. I asked the head of the medical board if I was not going to be sent back, and he said, "No, he was under instruction to return me to my ship." I said, "It seems strange"
Mr. WOOD. Is all this conversation material to the question asked?
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood the witness to say he was only going to give a brief statement, but I will have to ask him to confine- 
Mr. WooD. Giving conversation between he and his physician dur- ing the first World War would be immaterial to the issues here.
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked the witness to briefly state what his educational training was for the profession in which he was now engaged.
Mr. STEVENSON. This was rather intensive education, sir, in the question of war, for example. I was not invalided out of the service. I served overseas for another year and a half after that, and 4 days after my discharge the disease was pronounced active and I had to go to a sanatorium. For the next 12 to 14 years I spent a good deal of my time in bed, and here was where my real education began. I did a great deal of reading, and I began to do some writing. The two areas in which, I suppose, I did the most research was in the question of the cause and prevention of war, and the other was in the beginnings of our Republic, the United States. I went very thoroughly into the period of the founding fathers, and I must beg your indulgence if, in the course of this inquiry, I refer to them frequently because they have had a greater influence upon me than any group of men who ever lived.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to say that you began the prac- tice of your profession in 1944.
Mr. STEVENSON. As a screen writer in 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a screen writer.
Mr. STEVENSON. In 1944. I began to write, I believe, in 1920 while I was in bed.  1615 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in California?
Mr. STEVENSON. Since that time; since the spring of 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. What major credits have you received in the field of screen writing?
Mr. STEVENSON. The only credit I have received was on my first picture, which was the Ernie Pyle story of GI Joe which, I think by common consent of the GI's, was perhaps the best picture done on World War II and it was an extremely lucky first break.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Stevenson, this committee is now engaged in an investigation and study of the extent of Communist infiltration into the moving-picture industry. If you have been in a position, since 1944, in the practice of your profession, to see or to know anything regarding the extent of Communist infiltration, I would like to call upon you to cooperate with this committee in giving it such information as you have.
Mr. STEVENSON. Yes, sir. I am going to claim my privileges under the first and fifth amendments of the Constitution in connection with such questions, and I hope I may observe that repeatedly the attempt has been made here to say that men are hiding behind these valuable protections to the individual. I want to make it perfectly clear that I am not hiding behind anything; that the Bill of Rights was designed, according to my research, to protect the individual from heresy hunting in the Government. (At this time Representative Clyde Doyle entered the hearing room.)
Mr. WooD. Mr. Stevenson, please give the committee credit for understanding the Bill of Rights without going into a lecture. What is your answer, that you decline to answer anything with reference to any connection with communism? Is that what you mean? 
Mr. STEVENSON. That is correct, sir; but I do think people are under a misapprehension concerning this, and I would like a chance to make peopleMr. WOOD. I think this is a question of their own apprehensions and the inferences that may be legitimately drawn from a man who refuses to answer the questions on whether or not he has Communist connections on the grounds of self-incrimination. I don't think the committee needs any lecture about that. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Stevenson, this committee has heard some evidence through Mr. Collins regarding the activity of the Communist Party in the extension of the existence of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization for the purpose of using it as a tool for propaganda piurposes. Were you at any time a member of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and will you tell the committee what you know about Communist influence within that organization ?
Mr. STEVENSON. Again, sir, I want to express it is a feeling of duty on my part to use the Bill of Rights and the purpose for which it was intended, and I do decline because I must decline to answer that question on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. WooD. Let it be distinctly understood now and' hereafter, so long as you are on the witness stand before this committee, that there isn't any compulsion on you to decline to answer any question by this committee or otherwise, unless it is compulsion of your own conscience. 1616 
Mr. STEVENSON. It is a compulsion of my own conscience, sir, and conscience is the sovereign of the mind, in my opinion.
Mr. WooD. Then under the prompting of your conscience, what is your answer to the question ? Do you answer it or not?
Mr. STEVENSON. I decline to answer the question, sir.
Mr. WOOD. All right. Well, the answer that you "must decline to answer it" is an improper answer to this committee, because that indicates that we are putting you under some compulsion about it when we aren't doing anything.
Mr. STEVENSON. I am under compulsion, according to my ideas and
Mr. Jefferson's ideas, of what an American citizen should do.
Mr. WooD. We are not concerned about your ideas. We are concerned about your actions, whether you answer the question or not.
Mr. STEVENSON. IS that a question, sir? 
Mr. WOOD. I say that is our concern, whether you answer the question or not. I understood you declined to answer; is that right?
Mr. STEVENSON. That's correct.
Mr. WooD. For reasons that you have stated ?
Mr. STEVENSON. That's right. 
Mr. WOOD. Proceed, Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Sam Moore also appeared as a witness before this committee, and he refused to testify regarding his position on the radio committee of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. Did you attend a meeting of that group, the radio committee of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, which discussed the plans of that body ?
Mr. STEVENSON. Again I think I shall decline to answer on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. WOOD. You say you think you will. Do you ?
Mr. STEVENSON. I do.
Mr. WooD. All right. Let the record show that Mr. Doyle is nowpresent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the existence of a plan designed to place before the public information relating to the atomic bomb in such a manner as to use it for propaganda purposes ?
Mr. STEVENSON. Excuse me, sir. I may have missed the beginning of that question. About what organization or group, are you talking.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not certain whether I stated that. Will you read the question back? (The question was read by the reporter, as follows:)
Mr. TAVENNER. Do ybu recall the existence of a plan designed to place before the public information relating to the atomic bomb in such a manner as to use it for propaganda purposes? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I am referring to a plan that was put into effect, or allegedly so, by the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. STEVENSON. Well, again I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. The name of Nora Hallgren, secretary to a person known as J. Peters, has come before the committee frequently. Can you give the committee any information relating to Nora Hellgren or any of her activities in Hollywood ?
Mr. STEVENSON. Well, as to the names of persons alleged to have undertaken subversive activities before this committee is concerned, I shall again decline to answer the questions on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. COMMUNISM -IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1617 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you refuse to answer the question which I asked you?
Mr. STEVENSON. I said I did, Mr. Counsel. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Nora Hallgren?
Mr. STEVENSON. I refuse to answer that question on the same grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been a member of the execu- tive board of the League of American Writers ? 
Mr. STEVENSON. I believe that is another such organization, and I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you if you participated in a meeting of an organization generally referred to as the thoughtcontrol conference. It was a conference which was held on July 7, 1947, and was sponsored by the Hollywood Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council of the Progressive Citizens of America.
Mr. STEVENSON. IS that a question ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you whether or not you par- ticipated in that convention which called for the ending of the loyalty directive of President Truman and demanding that the House Committee on Un-American Activities be done away with as having no constitutional basis, and also as to whether or not there was a resolution adopted at this conference calling for the freeing of Gerhart Eisler, Carl Marzani, and the 16 defendants connected with the Joint Anti-Fascist Committee.
Mr. STEVENSON. That is a whole omnibus question. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to tell us what you know about that convention, if you participated in it. 
Mr. STEVENSON. There is an ironic signficance, it seems to me, in the fact that a conference on thought control should be declared subversive because of the organization sponsoring it. But since before this committee there is such evidence
Mr. TAVENNER. We should like very muchMr. STEVENSON. I shall decline to answer the question on the grounds of self-incrimination, possibly. .Mr. TAVENNER. We would like very much for you to explain your connection with it, explain the purposes of the thought-control conference, which you seem to think to be a queer result from having been sponsored by some other organization, the idea being that this committee may learn its true purposes and its true activities.
Mr. STEVENSON. I am sorry, Mr. Prosecutor, I must decline to answer on the previously stated grounds. I made a slip of the tongue. I see some of the committee members, and I couldn't help it, I feel like a prisoner on the dock here, and I feel as though there were six prosecutors confronting me. I have heard all morning talk about hanging people, and this is not a very happy atmosphere in which to appear.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not offended by being referred to as a prosecutor. I feel at times it is a very important service, though that is not the purpose of this proceeding.
Mr. STEVENSON. That's why I apologize.
Mr. TAVENNER. Information has come to the attention of the committee, Mr. Stevenson, that in 1945 you were assigned to group 11, which is otherwise known as the Sunset cultural group of the Cdm- 1618 munist Party, and attached to the fifty-ninth assembly district of the Communist Political Association group. I inadvertently said Communist Party, but I meant to say Communist Political Association. Were you a member of that association ?
Mr. STEVENSON. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was 1944 Communist Political Association card No. 41784 given to you?
Mr. STEVENSON. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Daily Worker of April 5, 1941, you were listed as one of the initial signers of a call to the Fourth Congress of the League of American Writers. If that be true, will you state the circumstances under which you united in that enterprise?
Mr. STEVENSON. My declination is the same, sir, on the same grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information that you at one time or another became active or at least became affiliated with organizations which have been designated by the Attorney General of the United States as Communist-front organizations. Now, that does not mean that everyone connected with those organizations were members of the Communist Party. But if you were a member of any of them we would like to know that fact, and we would like for you to explain to the committee the circumstances under which your membership was obtained in those organizations, and what influences, if any, were exerted by the Communist Party on them.
Mr. STEVENSON. Is that the question, sir ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I made that statement as a preliminary statement to the questions that I would like to ask you. I show you a photostatic copy of pages 20 to 21 of the June 1943 issue of Soviet Russia Today. These pages contain an open letter to the American people wherein the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship calls on all Americans concerned with preserving United Nations unity to fight the menacing campaign against our Soviet ally. Among the names appearing as signers to this letter are Philip and Janet Stevenson. Will you examine the article referred to and state whether or not you were a signer of that letter sponsored by the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship ?
Mr. STEVENSON. Well, I shall decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The summer of 1938 issue of the League Bulletinby League, I am referring to the League of American Writers-lists Philip Stevenson as secretary of the league. Were you secretary of the League of American Writers ?
Mr. STEVENSON. Same answer, sir, on the same grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time an instructor in the Workers' School of the League of American Writers, and if so I would like to know the circumstances under which your services were acquired for that purpose?
Mr. STEVENSON. I must decline that question on the same grounds, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a press release of the National Federation for Constitutional Liberties. This release was an open letter to the President of the United States and the Con-  1619 gress, declaring defeat of Japan and her Axis partners will require that complete unity of our people, which today is a reality, and states a position opposing was referred to as antilabor legislation as a dire threat to this essential unity. Among those listed as signing this appeal, or this press release of the National Federation for Constitutional Liberties, is the name of Philip Stevenson. So I would like to ask you the extent of your affiliation with that organization, tyke National Federation for Constitutional Liberties.
Mr. STEVENSON. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is true, is it not, that this organization, the Na- tional Federation for Constitutional Liberties, merged with the International Labor Defense to form what we now know as Civil Iights Congress ?
Mr. STEVENSON. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand from your testimony that you decline to answer any question that I might ask you regarding your knowledge of the operation of Communist fronts in this area, in Hollywood ?
Mr. STEVENSON. I am not sure I understand the question. I would like to confer with counsel. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. STEVENSON. If you would like to specify the fronts, sir, I would be glad to answer as to each one you name.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not certain I heard you.
Mr. STEVENSON. I said (conferring with counsel) on each specific question, sir, I will either answer or decline to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. This committee has received testimony through 
Mr. Collins and others, I believe Mr. Dmytryk, also, of the important part that the-I would say principally from the testimony of Mr. Dmytryk, of the important part that the Communist-front organizations played in the plan of the Communist Party to organize the moving-picture industry. A man of your intelligence and experience, I am certain, would have valuable experience for this committee on that matter, and I honestly request that you give the committee the benefit of such information that you have on that subject.
Mr. STEVENSON. IS that a question regarding some specific organization?
Mr. TAVENNER. The plan of the Communist Party, the method by which it proposed to use Communist-front organizations in the organization of the Communist Party in the moving-picture industry.
Mr. STEVENSON. For example, what organization?
Mr. TAVENNER. I think my question was plain. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you fail to understand it ?
Mr. STEVENSON, Yes; I failed.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will repeat it. Mr. Dmytryk testified at con- siderable length as to the plan of the Communist Party to use Communist-front organizations in its policy of organizing the Communist Party in the moving-picture industry. Now I am asking you, if you have any information on that subject, to give the committee the benefit of it. 1620 COMMUNSM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. STEVENSON. Yes; I understand the question; and I decline to answer it, sir, on previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of Actors' Laboratory
Mr. STEVENSON. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Committee of One Thousand ?
Mr. STEVENSON (conferring with counsel). Same answer, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAENNER. Were you associated or affiliated in any way with Frontier Films?
Mr. STEVENSON (conferring with counsel). I decline to answer, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. STEVENSON. I wonder if I might be allowed to offer a statement. I would like to ask permission to read it, if I may, in view of the fact that other witnesses have read at great length from statements in this room as late as this morning.
Mr. WooD. The statement will be accepted as part of the record.
Mr. STEVENSON. I asked for a ruling of the Chair, sir, whether I would be allowed to read the statement in view of the fact that prepared statements were read in this committee room as late as this morning.
Mr. WooD. Prepared statements have never been permitted to be read except in answer to questions where the witness is answering the questions. This committee has never received a prepared statement from a witness who declines to answer questions that are asked of him, because there isn't any purpose that can be served by it. It is a wellknown rule of law, as your counsel will tell you, in procedure and evidence, that an answer of a witness may always be explained after he has answered.
Mr. STEVENSON. My understanding of the functioning of congres- sional committees in general is that generally preparatory statements are read previous to the testimony of a witness. It seems to me that I have read that many times.
Mr. WooD. That is not the rule of this committee, as your counsel well knows, and has never been. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. No,sir.
Mr. WOOD. I will yield to Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. Did you prepare this statement?
Mr. STEVENSON. I did.
Mr. WALTER. The reason why I ask is that that is on exactly the same kind of stationery as all the other statements and apparently written on the same typewriter. I notice the same characteristics of type.
Mr. STEVENSON. It was probably copied by the same typewriter, sir, but I prepared the statement myself.
Mr. WALTER. That is all.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr DOYLE. I think I have no questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson. 
Mr. JACKSON Mr. Stevenson, are you presently a member of the Screen Writers' Guild?  1621 
Mr STEVENSON. I frankly-the Screen Writers' Guild has been on two sides of the fence in these hearings. I have heard testimony to the effect that it was a Communist-dominated organization and I have heard testimony to the effect that it was free of this
Mr. JACKSON. Well, irrespective of what you may have heard, the Screen Writers' Guild has never been cited by any agency of the Government as a subversive organization.
Mr. STEVENSON. I am. 
Mr. JACKSON. You are a member?
Mr. STEVENSON. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. Have you been a regular attendant at meetings of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. STEVENSON. Reasonably, I think.
Mr. JACKSON. Recently. 
Mr. STEVENSON. I think I attended the last meeting, but it was a long time ago.
Mr. JACKSON. Under the system of proxies exercised in the Screen Writers' Guild, who holds your proxy v
Mr. STEVENSON. Nobody holds my proxy.
Mr. JACKSON. You have no proxy out?
Mr. STEVENSON. But I do know that there is a very small group that controls the Screen Writers' Guild by the use of proxies in the pockets of two or three individuals, as a rule; sometimes as many as a hundred or more.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, the testimony in the record also indicates that a few years ago the shoe was on the other foot, that it was in a large part, controlled by, shall we say, those on the other side of the fence.
Mr. STEVENSON. The proxy techniques are a very recent origin, in the last 2 years, I would say.
Mr. JACKSON. And in light of the developments, I think a very worth while contribution. During the course of your opening statement you stressed your military service. Was that for the purpose of 'affirming your loyalty and your devotion to the American system and AmericanMr. STEVENSON. It was part of my education, sir. If you will remember, it was in answer to that part of the question. That is where I learned a great deal about America, about war and peace, about my feelings toward both.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, if it was intended-I don't say that it was intended, but if it was to demonstrate loyalty because of your service to this country in the Armed Forces, it might be pointed out that Benedict Arnold, among others, was a distinguished American soldier before he went down the river and joined the British forces.
Mr. STEVENSON. I resent that implication, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. There is no implication contained in it so far as you are concerned, except to state an historical fact. You have pointed out a number of historical facts. I feel free to state one, myself. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. PorrER. I have no questions to ask the military man.
Mr. WooD. Any further questions by counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. Any reason why this witness shouldn't be excused
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 1622 
Mr. WooD. So ordered.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dan James.
Mr. WOOD. Are you Mr. Dan James?
Mr. JAMES. I am. 
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear the evidence you give the subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. JAMES. I do. 
Mr. WooD. Have a seat, Mr. James. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. JAMES. I am, sir. 
Mr. WOOD. Will counsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. WnuN. My name is still A. L. Wirin, W-i-r-i-n, Los Angeles. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. James, following the uniform custom of this committee in all of its investigations of permitting any witness who appears before it to have benefit of such counsel of your own choice as you desire, you are instructed that you have the privilege of conferring with your counsel. Your counsel has appeared here before and is conscious of his rights and privileges.
Mr. WuuN. I am thoroughly familiar with your rules and I shall comply with them. Do you want-these may interfere with you.
Mr. WOOD. If the witness prefers, I will ask the photographers to finish before the witness starts. If he doesn't object, I will permit them to take pictures as they choose.
Mr. WnIN. He has no objection, but to help Mr. Tavenner's questioning I thought it would get them out of the way and then we can go on uninterrupted.
Mr. WooD. Unless the witness objects, I am not going to limit the photographers during the progress of testimony, unless counsel objects.
Mr. WIIN. Counsel never objects.
Mr. WOOD. That is good. Proceed, Mr. Counsel. TESTIMONY OF DANIEL LEWIS JAMES, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, A. L. WIRIN  