Mr. IDRISS. Ramez Idriss.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell your first name and last name?
Mr. IDRISS. R-a-m-e-z, is correct spelling of my first name, but I use R-a-m-e-y. The last name is I-d-r-i-s-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Idriss, you were identified this morning by a witness as having been a member of the Communist Party. I understand you have consulted the staff and desire to appear voluntarily. before the committee. Is that correct?
Mr. IDRISS. Yes. When and where were you born?
Mr. IDRISS. New York City, 1911.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3935
Mr. IDRIss. North Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation or profession?
Mr. IDRIss. I am a musician and songwriter.
Mr. TAVENNER. HoW long have you been engaged in that profession?
Mr. IDRISS. Since 1943 as a songwriter. Since 1938 as a musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been identified as having been a member of the musicians branch of the Communist Party ?
Mr. IDiBss. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. You may proceed with whatever statement you desire to make to the committee regarding that.
Mr. IDRIss. Well, that is true. I was a member and I cannot remembar exactly the date that I joined. I think it was somewhere around 1939 or 1940. Previous to having joined, I have been active in my musicians union politics, but was not a very astute person politically. It was kind of a-well, my background had been one of not being very important, and when I got into the union it was about the first thing ever happened to me that made me feel a little bit forward. And I got into the musicians' union, and I met people who seemed to be pretty clear-thinking and aware, and to me this was something where possibly I could learn something. I went in and was very active in the election of Spike Wallace for president, and I had been in the union previous to that when Jack Tenney had been elected and then defeated. And at that time I felt that this was just an intelligent approach to trying to do better in our union. I had studied in school, I had studied civics, and enjoyed civics, but I guess I hadn't grown up enough to actually be very forward myself. When we had the election in the union I was a hard worker. I would do the leg work hard for the election of Spike Wallace. And as a result of that I suppose I became interesting to the people with whom I was later associated. It was about 1939 or 1940 that I was taken into the Communist Party. At that time I felt that it was a sincere effort to do something for the world and for our country. As to activities that I engaged in, I went to meetings. I could not tell you where because they were in various houses. And we did things like forming committees. We formed the original Hollywood Canteen Committee. And conservation of tires was one of the things that was so important, and all of the sort of activities which I felt were congruent with our winning the war. In 1946 or thereabouts I had moved from the area that I lived in which put me in the musicians branch, to another area. I was transferred to another branch out in the valley. I couldn't tell you where. It was way in someplace and gone, and I attended 1 or 2 meetings there. About that time work was kind of bad and I had started thinking about-just something happened to me where it seemed that I wasn't doing anything for myself. I was just going along and doing as I was told. And at the same time a very simple thing made me decide to leave the Communist Party. I had been pressed for work at the time. I was not economically secure. And in spite of this, I had repeated efforts made to collect dues from me, which I didn't have. 3936 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA And all of a sudden it hit me very clearly that if this party was supposed to be for the brotherhood of man it was a very funny way of showing it to expect me to pay dues when I didn't have it. And I got out.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was in 1946? 
Mr. IDRISS. I would say it was in 1946. I cannot be sure of the date because I have forgotten it since then and have tried to forget the whole thing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the names of the persons who were associated with you in the musicians branch, that is, the first group that you were a member of ?
Mr. IDRISs. This would be a very difficult thing, for this reason: There were many people with whom I associated in the musicians union, and some of them were active in the union itself, and I do not know that they were in the branch. It was a large branch and I couldn't be sure of all of the names. There are a few names I might be able to give you. I certainly should know the name of the person who took me in. That was Mischa Altman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the leaders of this group in the Communist Party, that is, persons who took the most active part, after you became a member?
Mr. IDRISs. I remember Carroll Hollister, Joe DiFiore, Henry Roth.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the last name? 
Mr. IDRISS. Roth. I seem to recall the name Edmund Gruen, and I cannot be sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. If there is a name that you are not sure of, I don't-Mr. IDRISS. I am not. He was in the union and might not have been connected with the party. , Mr. TAVENNER. I understand the individual was identified by other testimony this morning, so I will not ask that it be stricken.
Mr. IDRISS. It is hard to remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there anything else you desire to say to the committee ?
Mr. IDRISs. These people whom I have just named, they are people whom I had a lot of respect for at one time. And probably they right now are somewhere in this room and they probably don't think too much of me. But I just feel that they are wrong. And I feel that I have come up here because I have nothing to gain or lose. I sincerely want to say to all the people I was associated with that when I felt that it was a good thing to be in the Communist Party I was in it. Right now I don't feel it is a good thing and I haven't felt it since I got out, or I wouldn't have gotten out. And I think that when I think of the effort we put in, if we worked just as damn hardand sure there is a lot of things wrong with our American Government. A lot of times Congressmen are wrong. A lot of times guys are thieves, like we saw in the war when they tried them. Damn it, they got them. I would like to see us just go ahead and work for our own country.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No questions. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3937 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Jackson ? 
Mr. JACKSON. You voluntarily approached a member of the staff to make this statement?
Mr. IDRISS. I was told that I was going to be identified and I said that I wanted to clear myself.
Mr. JAcKsoN. Do you feel better 
Mr. IDRISS. Yes, I do. 
Mr. JACKSON. I congratulate you on your decision. I think it was a very wise decision and I would hope it would be followed by others in the same predicament who went into the Communist Party, got out of it, and have had nothing to do with it since. I think they would feel a lot better in their own minds if they got it off their chests. Thank you very much.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Scherer, do you have any questions?
Mr. SCHERER. No; I have none.
Mr. MOULDER. Call the next witness.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Joseph DiFiore.
Mr. MOULDER. Hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. DIFIORE. I do. TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH DiFIORE, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ARTHUR A. BROOKS, JR. 