Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born
Mr. COLLINS. New York City, July 20, 1914.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present place of residence
Mr. COLLINS. 123 North Swall Drive, Los Angeles 48, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation ?
Mr. COLLINS. Screenwriter. SMr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee, briefly, your edu- cational background? 
Mr. CoLLINs. I went to Browning School in New York. I went to the Lyce Janson de Sailly, Paris. I went back to Browning; then 217 218 INDUSTRY to Beverly Hills High School; and a winter and a half at Stanford University. That is about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. How have you been employed since the completion of your educational training ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I worked as a clerk at Bloomingdale's in 1935, I think it was. Then as an outside reader for Columbia Pictures in New York. Then junior writer for Twentieth-Century Fox the end of 1936 and 1937. Then for Universal, Selznick's, Paramount, about 1939, for a year. Then for RKO for a short time. Universal for about 6 months. M-G-M about 3 years, I guess that was 1941 through 1944, no, 1942 through 1949. Then James B. Cassidy, an independent. Then Twentieth-Century-Fox again. Then United States Pictures. Then Warner Bros. Then for Robert Rossen Productions. Then for Roberts Productions. Then for Sidney Buchman Enterprises. Then again for Roberts Productions. (Representative Harold H. Velde entered hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that where you are now employed?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee what particular screen plays you have worked on in the past 3 or 4 years ?
Mr. COLLINs. I haven't worked on any produced screen plays in the last 3 or 4 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the last?
Mr. COLLINS. They go way back-to 1943 or 1944, to As Thousands Cheer and Song of Russia.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you living in 1935 ?
Mr. COLLINS. In New York. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And how long did you live there at that time ?
Mr. COLLINS. About a year, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you come to New York from the west coast?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you been employed on the west coast prior to that time, or had you been in school?
Mr. COLLINs. I had been in school.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your reason for coming to New York 
Mr. COLLINS. My family moved to New York and I moved with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you continue any course of training while in New York at that time?
Mr. COLLINS. I went to the New Theater League School in New York. The New Theater League School was a theater school, and, unlike most schools of the theater, it didn't cost very much to go to it. It was a left-wing theater group, and it was kind of active, open to young people, and there was a great deal of' experimentation in it of various-kinds, and I was pretty excited by it and went to school there about 6 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have a scholarship ?
Mr. COLLINS. Toward the end of the time I think I did. I used about a month of it and then came back to California. 
Mr. TAVENNER. While you were in attendance at that school, did anything occur as a result of which you became a member of the Young Communist League?  INDUSTRY 219 
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. I signed an application blank for this scholarship and said I was interested in the Young Communist League, and someone, I don't remember who, got in touch with me, and I went to one meeting of the Young Communist League in New York. That was the full extent of my experience in the Young Communist League.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you went to the west coast after the completion of that training?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Upon arriving on the west coast, did you resume your affiliation with the Young Communist League or with any Communist Party groups or individuals?
Mr. COLLINS. No, I didn't get in touch with the Young Communist League, but I was introduced to a class in Marxism. I don't remember the nature of the class. It could have been political economy or somethink like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us how that occurred.
Mr. COLLINS. Well, there was a man that I met who had been in Russia and was very enthusiastic about it. His name was Budd Schulberg.
Mr. WooD. I didn't get the name.
Mr. COLLINS. Budd Schulberg.
Mr. VELDE. Will you spell that, please?
Mr. COLLINS. It is S-c-h-u-l-b-e-r-g, I think. He had been, as I say, in Russia, and was very interested and excited by what he saw, and he introduced me to a class which met in a small frame house behind somebody's house. I think the house belonged to a man named Mullins. What his first name was, I don't know. Mullins was a man who used to go around studios with books and pictures. I stayed in this class a while, was interested, and that was the extent of the class.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was a study group on Marxism ?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right, and I imagine they were mainly nonCommunists. It was a class, I presume, to bring people closer to the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. About how many composed the class ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think four or five.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember the names?
Mr. COLLINS. No, outside of Mullins I don't remember. I don't even remember the teacher's name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you come in contact with any of them in connection with Communist Party activities at any later date?
Mr. COLLINS. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. At that time how were you employed?
Mr. COLLINS. I am not sure that I was employed at that particular moment, or, rather, that particular 6 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your first employment? 
Mr. COLLINS. My first employment was as a junior writer, Twentieth Century-Fox. That didn't occur until late in 1936, I think about the last month of 1936 or beginning of 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the approximate date of your arrival in Hollywood?
Mr. COLLINS. The summer of 1936. So, therefore, you see, I started this class before I was employed.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you had been in this class a period of time, did you become associated with a group of writers ? 220  
Mr. COLmuS. Well, no. That came, I think, probably, out of the fact that I went to work as a writer. I did then become associated with a group of writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us what the occasion of that association was.
Mr. COLuLs. In order to tell you that I would have to tell you something about the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well.
Mr. Co.LLIN. The Screen Writers' Guild, as I understand it-this was before I came to Hollywood-was smashed by the Screen Playwrights, a right-wing group of writers. The Screen Playwrights broke the guild up on the charge that it was becoming dominated by the Authors' League, which, according to Screen Playwrights, was a Red-dominated group. So the cry of eastern domination was the thing that broke up the Screen Writers' Guild. In order to break it up the Screen Playwrights, the right-wing group, had full support of the studios. With the pressure of the studios and the fear of blacklisting, the Screen Writers' Guild was smashed, but the majority of writers didn't support the Screen Playwrights and weren't very happy with them. The Screen Playwrights got a contract as a company union, and, therefore, they were the representatives of the writers in Hollywood at the time. There was a group of people, as I understood it at the time and as I believe today, Conununists and non-Communists, who met under the leadership or guidance of V. J. -Jerome. And I think it is interesting, because I have seen it happen since, that the right wing in this case, the extreme right wing, made it possible for the left wing, for the Communists, particularly, to take advantage of a situation that already existed. As a matter of fact, unless a situation exists, I don't think Communists or anybody else can take advantage of it. This group met for the purpose of reconstituting the Screen Writers Guild. And I think I ought to make it very clear that the reconstitution of the Screen Writers' Guild was a dangerous thing at that time because the fear of blacklisting was very strong. The group had met before I came. How long, I don't know. They met for about 3 months afterwards. As I remember, these meetings were very long, very drawn-out. Tremendous arguments took place in them, although I don't remember what about, and usually V. J. won, because he had more energy than anybody else.
Mr. TAVENNER. By "V. J." you are speaking of V. J. Jerome?
Mr. CourNs. Yes. He was able to outlast us all so far as his arguments were concerned. He was the most persistent of all of us.
Mr. TAVENNER. These meetings to which you refer were meetings composed of persons who were both Communists and non-Communists ?
Mr. CoLLins. That is correct.
Mr. TA*ENNER. And, as I understand, they were meeting under the direction and guidance of V. J. Jerome ?
Mr. COLLINs. The point is that the writers had no background for organizing a union, and presumably V. J. Jerome had a lot of experience along this line, and he was the logical man to lead the organization, especially in view of the pressure from the employers. This was something that V. J. knew something about, so he was the logical man for people to turn to.  221 
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you say the group was organized because of the efforts of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. You mean the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, it was. The Screen Writers' Guild, as I remem- ber it, I think that John Howard Lawson took V. J. Jerome's place, and after he took his place there were a series of 8 or 9 meetings called at various people's houses the same night, and to each of these meetings 20 or 30 writers were invited, and therefore the Screen Writers' Guild was organized the same night with about 200 people, enough writers so that the fear of reprisals from the producers could in some degree be abated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not certain I understand clearly the method used to get the Screen Writers' Guild organized through the separate meetings you spoke of. What do you mean by separate meetings, and what was the purpose of holding separate meetings?
Mr. COLLINS. I find it difficult to remember what the purpose was, but I presume the idea was to have small enough meetings so that there wouldn't be a great deal of publicity about it, which there certainly would be if you pulled 200 writers together. So instead of having 200 writers meet at one point, they came together the same night at different houses. With each group I imagine there was one who- had been in the meetings with V. J. Jerome, who knew what the demands were and therefore was able to present something to reform the Screen Writers' Guild. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you one of the group and therefore one of the initial members of the reorganized Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. COLINs. Oh, yes; that is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am going to question you about this further later, but I want at this moment to ask you a question as to whether or not the Communist influence within the Screen Writers' Guild, which resulted in its reorganization, has continued on to the present time with the same force and effect ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, no. I think one of the things that I was proud of in those days as a Communist, and that the other Communists were proud of, I suppose, was that we had recognized the Screen Writers' Guild, and that the majority of the screen writers wanted the Screen Writers' Guild, and therefore a noncompany union that really reflected the desires of the screen writers was set up. In subsequent years it is true the Communists had something to say about how the guild was run, because there were Communists on the board and in the guild, and because the line they' pursued was not too far from what the members wanted, they were able to exert some influence. This influence has been pretty much finished since 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. In your opinion, do I understand that the influence of the Communist Party in the guild has been dissipated?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I would say that is true since the 1947 election, which occurred after the first hearings here, or during the hearings.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will ask you more questions about that later. You have told us about the reorganization of the guild under the leadership of V. J. Jerome. You mentioned the name of John Howard Lawson. To what extent did he participate in the management or the operation of the guild, and how did he figure in the picture 222  
Mr. COLLINS. John Howard Lawson is an extremely forceful man on his own, as a speaker and as a man who spreads opinions. For a great many years he had a great deal of weight with the membership of the guild. He was also, I think, accepted, whether he was in all cases officially or not, as a leader or the leader of the Communist Party in Hollywood; so, therefore, he had some influence. And he had influence because of his own personality, courage, intellectual capacity, and so on. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he supplant any other person in leadership in the Communist Party in Hollywood ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know what the leadership of the Communist Party was prior to Lawson's coming to Hollywood, because I didn't come into the party until about 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was V. J. Jerome's status in the party, as far as you know, from information you obtained then or later ?
Mr. COLLINS. As of that time I understood he was a representative of the Central Committee of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are speaking now of the national organization of the Communist Party of the United States ?
Mr. COLLINS. What is now called the National Committee of the American Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time that you took part in the reorganization of the Screen Writers' Guild, were you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. NO. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you subsequently become a member ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee the circumstances which led up to it and the manner in which you became a member?
Mr. COLLINS. I understand that in most cases there was a formal date of entrance into the Communist Party, but in my case this was not so. What happened was that I was asked to come to a meeting, which could have been a class or a meeting of this committee on the guild, and it turned out to be a branch meeting, or whatever it was called in those days, of the Communist Party. I think it was called no objection to being there. As a matter of fact, I think I was quite not objection to being there. As a matter of fact, I think I was quite satisfied to be there, and I never questioned it. I was a member by having come to that meeting. Subsequently I found out that it was intended that I be asked, but somehow I never was, but it all worked out all right in the end.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was instrumental in having you attend that meeting?
Mr. COLLINS. It could have been Budd Schulberg. I think he was still in the party at that time. Or it might have been Ring Lardner.
Mr. TAVENNER. It might have been Ring Lardner ?
Mr. COLLINS. Ring Lardner, Jr. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were both of those individuals, Budd Schulberg and Ring Lardner, Jr., members of the Communist Party cell to which you were assigned?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you know about the continued Communist Party activities of Budd Schulberg, if anything? , INDUSTRY 223 
Mr. COLLINS. It is my understanding he left the party right after There was very, very his book came out, What Makes Sammy Run sharp criticism of this book in the party and in the party press, and I think he was handled rather ferociously, and he left the party, as I understand, at that time. I haven't seen him for many, many years, but my understanding was that he had quit at that point, whenever it was, 1939 or 1940, I don't remember exactly, but it was about 6 months after What Makes Sammy Run ? came out. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Ring Lardner, Jr., continue in his Communist Party relationship for a period of time? 
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I would say up to 1946 or so. After that, I don't know what happened to him. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You remained in the party until approximately what time ? 
Mr. COLLINS. I refused to pay dues at the end of 1947 for the year, and I left for New York in 1948. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't want to go into the details at this time.
Mr. COLLINS. I see. Just as there was not a formal date of en- trance, there was even a less formal date of exit. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give the committee the names of persons, in addition to V. J. Jerome and John Howard Lawson, who were active in the reorganization of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. COLLINS. There were many writers active in the reorganization of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly I didn't make my question clear. I mean those who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party.
Mr. CoLLINs. At that time there was practically no one known to me to be a member of the Communist Party, because I didn't join the Communist Party until after the Screen Writers' Guild was reorganized. A great many of those who met in those reorganization meetings I never heard of being members of the party. I would have to discuss that as of a later period.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will defer my questions about members of the Communist Party until a later period in your testimony. You were a member of the Communist Party for some years. How frequently did you attend meetings during the period of your membership ?
Mr. COLLINS. I attended, speaking of all meetings, not only meet- ings of the party, which were maybe once or twice a week, but meetings of whatever organizations I believed to-I attended 4 or 5 a week for 3 years, then about 3 a week. I figure it comes to close to 5,000 hours. I had about 5,000 hours of meetings, and I think at this point that is enough for a lifetime. I don't know that I will have to go to any more.
Mr. TAVENNER. How frequently did you attend strictly Communist Party meetings ? 
Mr. COLLINS. It would depend. It might be once a week; it might be twice a week; it.might be only once every 2 weeks. The branch met every 2 weeks, and I think during the war once every 2 weeks would be it. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In the period of your membership, and in the important field in which you were engaged in connection with the Communist Party, I should think you would be in a position to tell this committee what, in your own opinion, was the real purpose of the Communist Party in organizing itself within Hollywood? 224 
Mr. COLuxs. Well, of course I can't speak officially about that since I was not responsible for the decision to organize it, but I would assume that, first, the Communists have a certain respect for cultural workers, like writers and so on, and therefore being in a field in which there were a great many writers, some with some prestige in the country, would be one reason. Then I think there was a feeling that the content of films could be influenced to some degree, that there might be films on the question of discrimination against minorities, and so on. These films were made later, but I think when they were made, Communists had nothing to do with them. Then, also, there was a feeling they could stop or abate to some degree anti-Communist films. Actually, I don't think this was necessary, because anti-Communist films have had an enormous record of being unsuccessful, like Red Salute, and so on, but there was a feeling this could be abated to some degree. Then I think also there could have been some feeling that it was a part of the country in which a certain amount of money could be achieved as far as the party was concerned, on the basis of people who were workers and yet made larger salaries than are made generally. But I think that there was a real feeling that the concentration of frustrated or partially frustrated artists or creative people would be useful in the sense of prestige and many other things, and that these people would make a valuable contribution to whatever aims the Communist Party had at various times.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask questions more or less in detail about each of those reasons which you have assigned as being the purposes of the Communist Party as far as you were able to judge from your experience. You spoke of the use of influence with writers of prestige. Can you give us' any instances in which the Communist Party did exercise its influence in the direction of a writer's work ?
Mr. COLLr~s. It is very hard to answer that question, because dur- ing the late thirties and the war period, the whole period, which was a period of social change, I think that the Communists worked together, and most writers, since it is part of their field to look ahead, were concerned with the future, and that certain questions the Communists used as day-to-day questions, such as the question of race discrimination, were of concern to writers. And furthermore, the writers felt they had some contact with the labor movement which they would not feel in a small town like Hollywood just writing there. There was a general attitude of interest in social questions, questions such as the Spanish civil war, the anti-Nazi feeling, and things like this that writers would normally be concerned with and that the Communists were also concerned with, so it was not much of a trick for Communists to be concerned with the things that most writers were thinking about, and in some cases, I suppose-but this gets into my own history. The reason that it seemed reasonable to me to become a Communist was that, being anti-Nazi and for Loyalist Spain, the Communists seemed to be, both in the United States and in Europe, the most active opponents of the Nazis and of Franco and Mussolini and Hitler at that time, and it seemed a perfectly natural gesture to become a Communist.  225 What we have subsequently learned about both Communists and the whole international Communist question was certainly not apparent to me in those days, though I admit there were people in those days who seemed to know something about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. To be a little more specific, were you acquainted with Albert Maltz?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of the instance in which he was re- quired by Communist Party dictation to change his views and attitude in regard to his method of writing?
Mr. COuLINS. Albert Maltz wrote an article for the New Masses in 1945 or 1946, I think it was, in which he made a plea for more freedom for left-wing and Communist writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Albert Maltz a member of the Communist Party to your knowledge ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.
Mr. COLLINs. He made a plea for more freedom for left-wing and Communist writers, and for a more reasonable attitude toward their work, and he cited certain examples, as, for example, Watch on the Rhine, which I think was attacked at one period and praised at another, and he claimed it must have been a good play at both times; and he made what seemed to me at the time, and still does, a completely reasonable plea as far as any creative work. SI know he was attacked chiefly by the Daily Worker and also by certain members of the national committee of the Communist Party. There was also a meeting of writers in Hollywood-I think there were several but I only attended the first-and at this meeting Samuel Sillen came out from New York and led the discussion.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the person who came from New York ?
Mr. COLLINS. Samuel Sillen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. COLINs. S-i-l-l-e-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. I gather he was, although I don't know. He spoke at this meeting, I presume, as a Communist. He led this discussion, which was an attack on Maltz, and certain other people, particularly certain men who apparently were not too concerned with creative problems, were in the forefront of this attack on Maltz as being in- correct, not understanding the class struggle, et cetera.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I interrupt you to read one thing Maltz stated, which I believe was the subject of that controversy, and which I believe may clarify your answer somewhat.
Mr. COLLINS. 0. K. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In this article Mr. Maltz stated: I have come to believe that the accepted understanding of art as a weapon is not a useful guide but a strait-jacket. I have felt this in my own work and viewed it in the works of others. In order to write at all it has long since become necessary for me to repudiate it and abandon it. That is the article you are discussing?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. That, I presume, came out of Maltz' guts, since it was something he had to do to write, as he says. There are men 226 who don't have that problem, and who are not so concerned with writing as Maltz, and therefore these men find it easy to accept any policy. Since' they don't really care about writing, they don t care what they are told to do. These were in the forefront in the attack on Maltz. There were several other meetings, but I had had enough, and subsequently Maltz changed his mind. He wrote another article repudiating what he had first said.
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you at a time when you were speak- ing of the representative from New York who came to address your group. I do not know if you completed your testimony in regard to that or not.
Mr. COLLNS. I don't remember what he said. I just remember the general feeling, which was that this cry that Maltz had raised for freedom-well, it gets to the question of what is freedom in writing, and since I have a biased view on it, I don't think I should express what Sillen said.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. COLLMUS. Maltz repudiated this first article, and whereas the first article came out of his own conviction, the second article obviously came out of a rehash of other people's convictions. That was the end, as far as I know, of the Maltz controversy, although I presume after that there was a good deal of fear on the part of Communist writers, especially those connected with things officially Communist, of making a mistake such as Maltz had madeMr. TAVENNER. In other words, as a result of Communist Party dictation, he entirely reversed his stated views ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. He did it voluntarily.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was one specific instance, was it not, in which the Communist Party could and was interested in using a writer of prestige ?
Mr. COLLINS'. That is right. I guess you could call it that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall an instance in which a writer of a history was required to revise his viewpoint with regard to his work?
Mr. CoLLINS. Well, you probably got that out of Maltz' article, in which he mentions a friend, or at least a writer he knew, who had to rewrite a book in order to meet the terms of Communist Party policy. This was true, so far as I know, of John Howard Lawson and his history book. I remember that no sooner would Lawson get a draft done than some new development in Communist Party policy would occur and he would have to rewrite a part of it, or several chapters of it, in order to make it conform to the new policy. I think this was true in Lawson's case.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any more specific information regard- ing that instance ?
Mr. COLLNS. I was present at a meeting with Mr. Lawson and a representative of the county at that time, Carl Winter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was Carl Winter?
Mr. COLLINS. He was the county organizer in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of the Communist Party? 
Mr. COLLINS. Of the Communist Party. And at that time-there was a discussionMr. POTTER. Will you bring out the dates ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. What was the date of this instance?  
Mr. COLLINS. 227 It is hard for me to localize it, because I have no records. I think it was around 1943 or 1944, somewhere around there. This discussion was not like the Maltz controversy, however. Maltz was really hit over the head. The suggestions to John Howard Lawson were suggestions which he was eager to accept.
Mr. TAVENNER. In referring again to this general proposition of the purpose and aim of the Communist Party to use writers of prestige, can you say to what extent the Communist Party, in that connection, endeavored to control the organizations to which the writers belonged, or to influence them ?
Mr. COLLINS. The word "influence" is a much better word than "control" in most cases, because I don't think the Communists controlled any organization except maybe the Writers' Mobilization, toward the very end of its life when nobody belonged to it, that is, nobody functioned in it for the Communists. But we always tried to influence any organization to which we belonged, whether there was one Communist in it or a hundred, in that a policy would be presented which the Commnunists believed of prime importance. As a rule, in my experience, as in the Screen Writers' Guild no policy was suggested that the membership could not at least consider as reasonable. SThe only time this was done was during the strike period, when the painters' union was on strike in 1945 or 1946. The Communist Party had at one time said that we should go through the picket lines because the Communist policy during the war was a no-strike policy, and therefore we went through the picket lines. Then when the war was over and the policy changed, we tried to swing the trend around to supporting the secretaries and the painters who were out on strike. We were not successful for the simple reason the. writers did not understand why they could walk through the picket lines in February, and not in June. They had a point there, and they wouldn't go along with us. Some would speak of the policy of supporting the strike even though they knew it was unpopular, because they felt 10 years later the members would remember that they had said this and that perhaps they were right, that time would prove they were right, and therefore they would win support a decade hence that they didn't have at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. So that was an instance where the Communist Party endeavored to control the writers through the Guild?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, the word "control" stops me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or to influence?
Mr. COLLINS. To influence I think is right; yes. Mi. TAVENNER. Do you recall after 1947 the occasion of an election within the guild when the so-called progressive slate was prepared and again the Communist Party endeavored to influence the action of the guild in a particular matter? 1r. COLLINS. Around the 1947-the 1947 elections were held in the heat and passion of the former hearing, the hearing in 1947 of this committee, and there was a great deal of feeling on both sides at that time, and the progressive slate was defeated. And since that time, it is probably true that no Communists have been on the board of the Screen Writers' Guild. 81595-51-pt. 1- 12 228 
Mr. TAVENNER. The progressive slate to which you have referred was a slate composed of both Communists and non-Communist members?
Mr. COLINs. Yes. The Communists in any policy-or except perhaps very recently-would have the support of a great part or at least a sizable portion of the membership.
Mr. TAVENNER. And without that support which they were able to gain, the Communists wouldn't be able to accomplish much, would they?
Mr. COLLINS. Or nothing. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. But that slate as supported by the Communists was defeated ?
Mr. COLLNS. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, can you recall any other instances when the Communist Party used the Screen Writers' Guild for its purposes in endeavoring to influence writers in Hollywood?
Mr. COLLNs. Well, there were two incidents that I remember. One was a matter of influence. The other was a matter of-it would have to be termed something else. The first incident occurred right after the Screen Writers' Guild had been reorganized. There were-I don't know that there were any Communists on the board of the Screen Writers' Guild after it was reorganized, but there were at least people who were in favor of advanced policy in the Screen Writers' Guild or a left-wing policy, and it looked very much as if these people would be defeated in the election of 1937, I guess. Now, I think that it's interesting here that the Communist Party had done a really fist-rate job of setting up the Screen Writers' Guild, and a very useful job, and must have been quite proud of it. This part of the coin looks pretty nice. Now, on the other hand, this incident points out that if you believe in the correctness of your cause, you will be willing to do almost anything to win. There was a caucus or a fraction meeting-a fraction is a Communist faction of the general whole; in this case the Screen Writers' Guild whole-and in this caucus we discussed the fact that our opponents had more proxies than we did by far and perhaps would swamp us. This looked like a very unfortunate situation. Lester Cole had the notion of suggesting that the old board on which we had at least some people who would listen to us should be reelected by unanimous acclamation. So, at the proper point in the meeting, when it really looked as if Johnny Gray, who was the right-wing treasurer at that time and who held an enormous number of proxies, with Maury Riskin, where it looked as if they were winning-they were handing over so many proxies-someone, and I don't remember who, got up and said, "Let's reelect the old board who served us so well in this first year of our trouble by unanimous acclamation." So, I rose to my feet, as did the others. We cheered and applauded. Other people cheered and applauded, and the board was returned by unanimous acclamation.
Mr. TAVENNER. All as a result of the plan and design of the Communist Party members ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. At the time I thought it was quite a shrewd notion.  'INDUSTRY 229 
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, you refer to Lester ColeMr. COLLINs. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). As being one of the moving parties in thatMr. COLLINS. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). Transaction. Is Lester Cole known to you to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state who were instrumental and active in endeavoring to impart the Communist Party line to the guild with reference to no strikes during the war period and strikes after the war period to which you referred in your testimony a little while ago who were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think actually that I have named all of them. There was Lawson-John Howard Lawson, Lester Cole, Ring Lardner, and myself-and I think that in the main we carried on these struggles. We also tried to keep the Writers' Mobilization goingtried to get the $10,000 that had been given yearlyMr. TAVENNER. I'll come to that in just a moment. Now, were there any others you can recall now who were active as Communist Party members in the effort to impart the Communist Party views with regard to strikes? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I remember particularly the meetings of the board, you see, and on this, as I remmeber, I was there with John Howard Lawson and Ring Lardner and Lester Cole. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I want to ask you at the present time to state whether or not the Communist Party was interested in the organization to which you just referred-the Hollywood Writers' MobilizationMr. COLLINS. Well, yes. SMr. TAVENNER (continuing). And how that occurred. But before doing so I believe you should tell us what the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization was and what its purposes were.
Mr. COLLNS. I intended to. The purpose of the Writers' Mobili- zation was to help win the war. Every writer in Hollywood belonged to it. It was an amalgamation of the Screen Writers' Guild, the Radio Writers' Guild, and several other guilds in which either information could be gathered or .writing could be done for the war. It was actu- ally its sole purpose during the war years. It turned out an enormous amount of material in terms-for the USO, the Red Cross, for any war agency, the armed services, and so on-of films, sketches, speeches, radio skits, everything for the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. And during that period of time there was really no material or substantial divergence between the Communist Party views in promoting the war effort and those of other persons?
Mr. COLLINS. None. No divergence. The Communists, because they had been acquainted, because they had had a more international viewpoint perhaps than some of the other writers, were in a good position to help in many cases where there were sketches that had to do with our allies, Britain, China-under Chiang Kai-shek at that timeSoviet Russia, the underground movements, and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, upon the termination- 230  
Mr. WooD. We will take a recess for 30 minutes in order to give the members of the committee an opportunity to answer this call [Quorum call on floor of the House]. We will reconvene in 30 minutes. (Thereupon, at 11:10 a. m., the hearing was recessed until 11:55 a. m., at which time the following proceedings were had:)
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order, please. By virtue of the authority vested in me as chairman of this committee, I now set up a subcommittee composed of Messrs. Walter, Doyle, Jackson, and Wood for the purpose of continuing this hearing, and all four of those members are present. You may proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Collins, at the time of taking the recess, I was asking you about the method used by the Communist Party to control in certain instances or influence in certain instances writers in Hollywood through the guild, and you were at the beginning'of your testimony regarding the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. You have already explained the purpose of that organization during the war period. Now we have arrived at the termination of the war, so I want to ask you whether there was any real purpose or whether the purpose for which this organization was formed ended with the close of the war.
Mr. COLLINS. Well, there was a difference of opinion on that. The Screen Writers' Guild, most of the membership, felt that the purpose of the organization had ended, and the Communist Party felt, I think, that it could be useful in the postwar period.
Mr. TAVENNER. Useful to whom ? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, useful both I suppose to the party and its objectives and in the general-whatever the problems of the postwar period were going to be, which at that time I think were not discernible, clearly discernible. The mobilization had been supported by I think $10,000 a year from the Screen Writers' Guild, plus money from the Community Chest or the USO, and also money in smaller amounts from the other union members of the mobilization. A fight developed over the continuation. of this $10,000. As I remember, we-that is, the Communists-be-- lieved that the guild should continue to support it. There was a great deal of opposition to this. And finally in a membership meeting themembers voted to discontinue the money for the mobilization.
Mr. TAVENNER. About how long did the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization continue ?
Mr. CoLLINs. Well, that's hard-I don't remember exactly, but I'd say it was about a year or a year and a half after the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. And during that period of time this contest or issue was being fought out as to whether or not it should be continued ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it continued for a while on the grant for that year-for instance, in 1945. Then I imagine in 1946 the question came up again. (Representative Harold H. Velde entered hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINS (continuing). And at this time I think it lived on a. little bit longer after the $10,000 was withdrawn. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, why was the Communist Party interested in the continuation of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it had become an excellent vehicle for the pres- entation of material, political material, cultural material, and I think:  231 they felt it could probably be used for the same purposes in the post- war period. The difference was, of course, that during the war every-one was in complete agreement, and after the war the fissures began to develop internationally and also, therefore, in the mobilization, in the guild. So, they couldn't-there was not the unanimity as to what the mobilization should do, and a great many writers obviously were just as happy to forget about it. They felt that it had finished its purpose, and they didn't want to do anything with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was there any project which the Communist Party was particularly interested in which might be projected or put into effect through the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization
Mr. COLLINS. Well, the Communists were interested in any project that was originated in the mobilization. I don't remember all those projects. I think many of them never came to fruition. I remember a great deal of discussion at the time about what the mobilization should do, what its program should be for the future, and so on, butMr. TAVENNER. Discusion among whom ? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I remember discussions with Jack Lawson on this.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS Jack Lawson the same person as John Howard Lawson?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, John Howard Lawson. But the content of these discussions and what was arrived at I don't really recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what were some projects?
Mr. COLLINS Well, there was a project that I remember very vaguely ,called Counterattack, which I think was an anticensorship, antiwell, I don't-I remember it but there again I don't remember the content.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that aimed in part at this committee, the Committee on Un-American Activities ? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think it predated this committee. It was aimed at the-I suppose in a general sense, yes, it was aimed at this, the kind of activity that the committee represents, that this committee represents.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was that project a project that the Communist Party was interested in ? 
Mr. COLLINS. Of course they were interested in it; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And was the Communist Party responsible for the projecting of that idea into the organization of Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. COLuNS. Yes; I guess it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, can you recall any other?
Mr. COLLINs. Well, there was a subcommittee I think or a committee which met with some of the physicists from California Tech for the purpose of acquainting the public with the nature of atomic energy and, you know, what the dangers were in the atomic bomb and what kind of weapon it was, and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was there set. up within the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization what was known as the Atomic Energy Commission?
Mr. COLLINs. That might have been the name of it. There was such a committee set up. It was to acquaint the-you see, the mobili- 232 INDUSTRY zation had carried on various meetings all during the war with many people. For instance, a physician came from Birmingham Hospital, gave a seminar on the problems of the men at Birmingham. And there were seminars on many, many subjects in which people would come from the outside and discuss them during the war, especially relating to any war activity. So, therefore, this seminar which was supposed to be set up on atomic energy was in line with these previous seminars which had been discussed, and there was such a committee set up with some scientists from California Tech.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the Communist Party interested in that par- ticular project?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, insofar as the Communist Party was interested in the mobilization, it was interested in this project.
Mr. TAVENNER. What use did the Communist Party plan to make of this particular group ? In what way did it expect to put this particular group to work or influence it to work?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think that the Communist Party was honestly concerned with the question of peace, and since the Communist Party members honestly believed that the danger to peace comes from the United States and since the atom bomb was the United States weapon primarily-certainly at that time-they felt that since the scientists were also concerned with the terrible nature of the atom bomb that there could be a natural union between the concern of the scientists over the terror of the bomb, of its nature, of its misuse perhaps, and the fear of the Communists of war at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, in what way did the Communists plan to make use of that union of effort between scientists and the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization
Mr. COLLINS. Well, the scientists had the knowledge concerning the terror of the bomb, and they had the fear of it. But they didn't have the know-how as far as getting it out to the public was concerned. And the Writers' Mobilization did have that know-how. So, therefore, it seemed like a natural union between the concerned scientists and the experienced, in this case, publicists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, was it the interest and purpose of the Com- munist Party to disseminate that information as fear information to the American public?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, I think that's right. It was the normal conclu- sion you could draw-that the scientists were fearful and could probably make, since they knew a lot about it-I think they still are fearful-could probably make other people fearful if they could get to them, and the mobilization would get to them.
Mr. TAVENNER. And it was a part of the Communist Party plan to disseminate that information to the public ?
Mr. COLuINs. Well, here again Iwas not responsible for formu- lating the Communist Party plans in the sense that they were formulated undoubtedly, if they were, from another source, but as far as I understood it I guess that's a reasonable presumption that they were interested in- a certain amount of fear on the part of the people and that they thought this was a reasonable project. And at that time it's true I think, in the main, Communists were the center of the mobilization after the war. . INDUSTRY 233 
Mr. TAVENNER. You made reference to the holding of seminars. Were seminars held on the subject of atomic energy ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, there was one. There may have been others but I only remember one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did various scientists address the meeting?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. It was a broad meeting. I think that people were invited as well as the mobilization people. Anyone could come and probably did. And I remember Coinog, who was one of the scientists whose name stuck in my head.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the full name? 
Mr. COLLINS. No. But, at any rate, he spoke as a physicist, and he made particular care to mention when he would come to a certain point that it was impossible to pursue it further because it was restricted. I had the feeling the scientists were very careful and very conscientious men.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether the commission-first, of all, were you a member of that commission ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether the commission endeavored to assemble scientific information from the scientific departments of various universitiesMr. COLLINS. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). And other places ?
Mr. COLLINS. Not to my knowledge; no. No, I don't think-I doubt that. I mean my feeling is that the most of the people who were involved in it would not really believe that they could get anything very useful in terms of information about atom science from a casual acquaintance with a few scientists who came over with some concern. There was a time at which the Federation of Atomic Scientists had been set up and were publishing a magazine and were really concerned with getting their problem to the public, and so the idea they could perhaps get writers to help them with speeches or perhaps make a film or something like that was of great interest to the scientists. But I really don't believe that anyone of my acquaintance was naive enough to believe that these scientists would divulge anything, that as writers we could influence them on the basis of meeting with them two or three times.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, aside from the question of influencing the scientists in any manner, did they assemble, to your knowledge, any scientific information relating to the atomic bomb ? 
Mr. COLLINs. Well, they might have, but it would have been like the Smyth report or whatever it's called. You know. That was fairly-that anyone could pick up. I doubt if they went beyond that, althought I don't even remember that. I suppose if a man wanted to find out something about it he would have read what was available. But the real thing is, as far as we were concerned in terms of our program, we didn't really have to know much about atomic energy in terms of, you know, how a bomb is made. All we had to do was to pursue the policy that the atom bomb was a dangerous weapon, which you can certainly write about without having any inside information as to how a bomb is made. All you have to know about is Hiroshima and so on, and you can do a pretty good job. 234 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what disposition was made of any material or information that was obtained as a result of the seminars or as a result of scientific persons furnishing information to the group ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. We were going to write a series of radio pro- grams dealing with atomic energy on a kind of creative literary basis. But, as I say, those programs, as I remember them-I don't remember a couple of them-didn't really deal with any scientific aspects of atomic energy.
Mr. TAVENNER. They just dealt with the terror aspect of the bomb?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I remember one of them was about-one of them dealt with a man who has the bomb in a suitcase, similar to this British film. I suppose you could call that terror, which it was. And one of them dealt with-it was called "Happy Birthday, Dear Earth Star," which was about some people on another planet who have gone through this before and who watch the earth join-you know-the other stars.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result of the atomic bomb explosion?
Mr. COLLINS. As a result of atomic energy; that's right. So, you see, in order to do this you need perhaps some creativity and imagination, but you don't really need much information about the atom bomb. Now, I never knew of any assemblage of material. I mean I can't say the fact there wasn't any, because I don't know, you know. But it certainly was outside of my purview.
Mr. TAVENNER. Earlier in your testimony you stated that another reason why the Communist Party was interested in organizing communism within Hollywood was the possibility of influencing films. Now, as a practical matter, was that possible of accomplishment?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, not to any-no. It was possible of accomplish- ment only in terms of the whole tendency of the country, so I think, as I said before, if the proper presentation, let's say, of a Negro on the screen has been accomplished since then and not by Communists, but certainly Communists who would have been handed a Negro character would have tried to give him a certain dignity let's say. In this sense they would have affected the content of films. But, since the basic policy isn't in the hands of the writer or the director but in the hands of the owners of the studio, who are not at all interested in this propaganda, the chances of any real presentation of Communist material or what is termed Communist material in terms of Communist Party or foreign policy are I think extremely unlikely. (Representative Bernard W. Kearney entered hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINS (continuing). Now, at one time I think that Communist writers felt that the inclusion of several progressive lines might be a happy thing, but finally it was realized that this didn't mean any- thing to anybody unless you had the code book with you that told you what those lines mearit, so this policy was dropped and was considered no longer reasonable. I think I discussed the fact that there would be an attempt made not to have anti-Communist or anti-Soviet films made in this early period. I'm not talking about now, because I don't know anything was about the present time. I remember one example of, I think -it Lester Cole wrote a film about a boys' school, and at that time there was a statement of Dolores Ibarruri, who was called "La Passionara" in Spain. She had said a famous  235 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the title, please? 
Mr. COLLINS. "La Passionara"? I don't know. I would rather not attempt it.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. 
Mr. COLLINS. At any rate, she had said, and it was a famous slogan during the Spanish Civil War, "I would rather die on my feet than live on my knees." And Cole I think in some speech of one of the coaches in the school had him give this line. Now, I felt, and I think most people did, that this wasn't-that you could scarcely call this propaganda. I mean it was just I think he was perhaps pleased with the line, but it really didn't mean anything. I think a better example of the difficulty--of the way in which a picture is handled is Song of Russia about which there has been a great deal of discussion. Do you want me to discuss that?
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any connection with the Song of Russia ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. Paul Jarrico and I wrote it or did the screen play on it, that is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; we would like to hear the incident.
Mr. COLLINS. Well---- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name "Jarrico" ?
Mr. COLLINS. J-a-r-r-i-c-o. We had this picture, Thousands Oheer, for M-G-M, and M-G-M had bought a story about Russia called "Scorched Earth," and the same producer was making this Scorched. Earth film as had made Thousands Cheer. They were both musicals. And we got the assignment on Song of Russia, wrote a first draft of it, corrected the first draft on the basis of-as any first draft is corrected, on the basis of what could be helped in it from a writing standpoint. And then the script with which apparently the studio was pleased was sent to David Selznick so he could borrow-so Metro could borrow Ingrid Bergman. Selznick objected to the script on the basis it was too favorable to Soviet Russia, and there was a conference held with Mr. Mayer, Mr. Mankiewicz and Mr. Katz, Gregory Ratoff who was the director-Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you begin the list of those names over again?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. Louis B. Mayer and Joseph Mankiewicz.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. COLLINS. NO. You can find that. Sam Katz. And Gregory Ratoff. The producer, Joe Pasternak. Mr. Jarrico and myself. 
Mr. TAVENNER. About when was this ? 
Mr. COLLINS. 1942. Somewhere around there. 1943. I don't know exactly. At any rate, Mr. Mayer said-I'm not quoting him directly-he didn't understand what the problem was, that he certainly didn't want-that he wanted to make a picture about Russia because Russia was in the news, that they had made pictures about England, France, and so on, and that it seemed reasonable to make a picture about Russia, but, on the other hand, he didn't want to make any Communists-and that if the picture couldn't be made-so if it was going to make trouble he'd just as soon not make it. I think, as I remember, that the picture was saved by Joe Mankiewicz who said there was no reason why it couldn't be made andc made without any trouble. I think that was the complete feeling at 236 the time, because actually in 1943 what Song of Russia said about Russia was far less glowing than what Winston Churchill was saying or Douglas MacArthur or President Roosevelt or General Eisenhower or anybody else. I mean this was the period in which Russia was a great country. So that the picture actually in those terms was pretty lukewarm compared to the statements, to the feeling of the time. However, it was decided that there were certain things such as the collective farms that should be omitted. Now, of course, this is really kind of a ticklish point, because if you show the farmers on collective farms you're in trouble, but, on the other hand, if you show that they own individual farms of this nature then you're in trouble, too. So we decided, for better or worse, not to mention what kind of farms these were. And then we took out words like "community" and did a general job of cleaning it up on this level. We did, in short, what we were instructed to do on the film, and no one suspected when it came out-it seemed rather innocuous-that it would ever-you know, that 5 years later anyone would ever remember it. But, nevertheless, there was a complete discussion as far as its content was concerned, and it was felt that in view of the times there was-the basic part of the picture was that this Russian girl who represented the Russian people was patriotic and believed in her country and was set against the Nazis, and that she and the American had the common purpose which was to defeat the Nazis and do the best they could each for their own land, which at the time was an extremely reasonable position and was pleased, as I say, by everyone present. I doubt if any picture could be made without the front office O. K.'ing it, and this would mean that it would be-especially nowadays but I think certainly even then-viewed pretty carefully. A great many things that seem in retrospect to be left wing were really part and parcel of the times, and this was certainly one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you identify Paul Jarrico more definitely for us? How long had you known him? 
Mr. COLLINS. About 5 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. How closely had he been associated with you in your work during that period of 5 years ?
Mr. CoIrs. Well, we first started working together I think in 1940, and we sold a story to M-G-M and then one to Universal.
Mr. TAVENNER. HOW many screen plays did he work on with you ?
Mr. COLLINS. Three.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the writing of this screenplay influenced by the membership of yourself and Jarrico in the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I suppose it could have been to some degree, in that we probably knew more about the country than one would know if you had never read anything about it or looked at anything about it. We had seen Soviet films and read material about the Soviet Union, and I imagine we had a certain amount of knowledge about it. Nothing first-hand, but at least second- or third-hand. But in terms of what we said in the picture I doubt if it had anything to do with  INDUSTRY 237 our being Communists except that we were pleased with it. We were pleased with the assignment. But at that time we were-as I said.before--we would have been pleased with a picture on the resistance movement in Europe; We would have been pleased with anything of that nature that we felt would help the war. And we certainly felt that this picture would. And also we believed, as I think many, many millions of people hoped, that the relations between the United States and Russia would be friendly and that this couldn't hurt it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, the individuals you have mentioned as repre- senting the moving-picture industry who took part in those discussions, will you state what positions they had in industry ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, Mr. Mayer was theMr. TAVENNER. And whether or not any of them were members of the Communist Party to your knowledge.
Mr. COLLINS. Well, Mr. Mayer to my knowledge is not a member of the Communist Party, and he was the boss of the studio. Sam Katz was the executive in charge of a number of producers, of which Pasternak was one. I would say that he in my knowledge was not a member of the Communist Party. And Mr. Joe Mankiewicz was, I suppose, one of the brightest boys at the studio, and he was not a member of the party. And Gregory Ratoff is a White Russian, as I understand it, and consequently I would presume he would not be a member of the party. So that outside of Mr. Jarrico and myself, I would say that there were no other Communists present at this meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were there instances that came to your attention when the Communist Party was interested around the other way, interested in checking the production of plays which it considered to be anti-Communist?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, no; I don't know of anything like that in my experience. The only picture that we were concerned with in check- ing my memory was I think a picture called Tennessee Johnson. Wasn't that the name of it? I don't know Tennessee Johnson-it had a very biased, from our point of view, picture of Thaddeus Stevens. (Representative John S. Wood left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was protest made by the Communist Party to the production of the picture, in which I believe you were probably one of'the protesters ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think that the Communist Party nationally may have done something about it as far as the press was concerned, and I think that we tried to persuade the studio that this picture was a distortion of history; yes, but that's the only instance I know of. It wasn't very effective, either. I think the picture was made precisely as written. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, in order to influence by propaganda any screenplay, you would have to be-successful in putting the plan over on not one but more than one responsible representative of the industry, wouldn't you ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, about how many representatives of industry would be involved in passing upon a screen play which was written? 238 INDUSTRY 
Mr. COLuNs. Well, you would have to pass firstly your own producer, and then the chances are the director would have to go along with it, and then the front office, and at different studios the front offices are set up differently. Now, at M-G-M in those days it really had to go through four or five people. Some studios might be run on a more singlehanded basis, as, for instance, Twentieth-Century Fox. I imagine if you could get it past Mr. Zanuck you would be in business. But also then you have to get some actor, the star, who is very important, who will also have to say 0. K. Now, Bob Taylor as it was, I think, objected to Song of Russia and to line in it, and so on, and, as I remember, they had to be in some cases changed so that you would have to get by a great number of people in order to make the picture. But the point is, you see, that after all the Communists don't try to get in-what is called Communist propagana-I don't think Communists would try to get in, because they would know beforehand that it wasn't successful. If a Communist, as I say, writes a Negro with some dignity, the chances are he will get that, you know-in the main, that might get through, because no one would see, would feel that that was necessarily Communist propaganda. If he writes a picture about the resistance movement, let's say, during the war, in which somebody in the resistance movement is a hero, and there were such films, no one would object to that, because they wouldn't feel that it was necessarily any more Communist than their own position. So that in terms of-you know perfectly well that if all the Communists got together now and wrote a pro-Soviet film it wouldn't be made. So I doubt if Communists are spending much time working on this kind of project. I mean they have a certain amount of reality as regards this. You can only do what's possible within the framework of the period and what other people feel, andMr. TAVENNER. Now, you have stated that another purpose of the Communist Party in organizing communism in Hollywood was from the financial viewpoint. What did you mean when you referred to that?
Mr. COLLNS. Well, I think that just in terms of dues or assessments rather that there was at one time during the war period when there were I think more Communists than at any other time-I mean as far as this section was concerned-a fair amount of money received from these people. I don't remember. I think the assessment when I was last in the party was about 4 percent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Four percent of what?
Mr. COLLINs. Of your salary after the agent's deduction. You deduct the agent's commission and then you take 4 percent of that. That is as I remember it.
Mr. VELDE. What agent?
Mr. COLLINS. The professional agent's commission. Four percent probably amounted to in those days quite a good deal of money. Then also I think in terms of certain other things, certain other specific projects, that people would contribute money, and since there was money in this community, and that in that sense it was useful.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee what was the extent of your contributions to the Communist Party while you were a member of the party-say monthly or weekly ? COMMUNISM iN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 239 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't know exactly what it was. The assessments, I think I probably paid them up to, except toward the end, pretty regularly. I don't know. I suppose that during the period I was at Metro, which was the war years, it was around $185 a month, something like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. You paid $185 a month?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, around that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over how long a period of time was that ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't know. Three or four years 1 guess. Maybe more.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did other persons who were members of the Com- munist Party to your knowledge pay on a like proportion with you'.
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, yes. That was understood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, those payments which you made, were they the ordinary dues that you were expected to pay, or did youMr. COLLINS. No, no. The dues, I don't remember what they were but they were nominal. This was an asessment above your dues based on the fact that-on the idea that-since you made a higher salary than the average party member in the country you could afford to pay more money. So this assessment was in addition to the dues, which, as I say, were nominal, whatever they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. TO whom were those dues paid? How were they paid ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, they were paid to the financial secretary of the branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of the branch of which you were a member ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. It's on the honor system in a sense because no records are kept. You'd pay what you believed you owed.
Mr. TAVENNER. But the financial secretary would have an idea of how much you owed ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; they certainly would. He or she would.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the financial secretary to whom you made payments ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't remember any time except at the very beginning when I was the financial secretary, the first group. The only one I remember, I don't know. I don't really remember who used to get the money, because, you see, the group didn't remain constant. There were probably in my time quite a few groups. And this is a job that nobody particularly wanted, so thatMr. TAVENNER. Well, when you were a financial secretary, when you first entered the party, what disposition did you make of the funds which you received as the financial secretary ?
Mr. COLLINS. I turned them over to Madelaine Ruthven.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. COLLINS. R-u-t-h-v-e-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ruthven?
Mr. COLLINS Right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her official position? 
Mr. COLLINS. She was the organizational secretary I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have asked several witnesses, including V. J. Jerome, who appeared before this committee a few weeks ago, whether or not it was true that the national organization of the Communist Party refused to permit these dues to be paid or these assessments 240  to be paid to the Communist Party of the State of California and from a certain date directed that those payments be made directly to the national organization of the Communist Party of the United States in New York due to the fact that it was such a tremendously large figure into which these assessments ran. Is that correct or nott
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't know much about that. I remember that the-I never had much to do with it, but I remember that there was a split between the national office, the State, county, and the section itself, in which I think the national office got the greatest amount.. But what the split was or precisely what it was I wouldn't know, because it really wasn't in my field. 
Mr. VELDE. The greatest amount of what? Dues? Or your spe- cial assessments?
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, no. The special assessments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the special asessments go directly to the na- tional office?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't think in toto. I think that the section in Hollywood broke off, you know, what was supposed to be the percentage that was supposed to be sent and sent the largest sum directly, as I said, to the national office. But here-I didn't send it. I thinkyou know, this isn't really-this is my understanding, but I certainly wouldn't be held to it, because I never .hadreally anything to do with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. The payments were not made directly to the na-- tional office, but throughMr. COLLINS. Through this section.
Mr. TAVENNER. Through the section official who had charge of the- particular matter?
Mr. COLLINS. Uh huh. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I failed to ask you a little while ago, in speaking- of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, who was the organizer of it or its first president. Let us put it that way.
Mr. COLLINS. Bob Rossen was the first president.
Mr. TAVENNER. Bob who? 
Mr. COLLINS. He was the first chairman. Robert Rossen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Robert Rossen? R-o-s-s-e-n?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. I don't know who organized it. I don't know- it was necessary to organize it in the sense that it was a normal wartime set-up.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not he was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. He was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how he is employed now?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think he is a producer at Columbia.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he is ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. I talked to him about a picture about 2 months ago. He was in Hollywood for a while. I think he had been in Europe and then he had been in Mexico making The Brave Bulls. He told me in 1947 that he had sent a note to Harry Cohn-I guess it was 1948-that he had sent a letter to Harry Cohn saying he was not a. Communist, by which I presume that he has disaffiliated himself.
Mr. TAVENNER. TO Harry-?
Mr. COLLINS. Harry Cohn.
Mr. TAVENNER. K-o-h-n or C-o-h-n?
Mr. COLLINS. C-o-h-n.  INDUSTRY 241 
Mr. TAVENNER. C-o-h-n?
Mr. COLLINS. Who was the president, I think, of Columbia Pic- tures. I gather he's disaffiliated himself, but that is as much as I know. At the time, at any rate, he was in the party, and he was the chairman.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you know he was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I had meetings with him. I had a meeting at his house-well, one or several at his house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give the committee any idea of the num- ber of Communist Party meetings that you attended at which Robert Rossen was present?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, in order to say that a man was a Communist I would have to remember out of my 5,000 hours precisely what the meeting was about, that it was a Communist meetings, what room it was held in, and who was present, you know, so that I would remember specific-I could only-I can't remember how many. I remember sitting in his house, that it was a Communist meeting, and that Rossen was present. Unless I can remember the place, the nature of the meeting-because, after all, these 5,000 hours were mainly not Communist meetings-I just don't see that it's possible for me to say that he was a Communist, because you know I may have some feeling about it but I don't think that that warrants this kind of label. So that I remember, how-. ever, specifically in this case seeing him.
Mr. TAVENNER. In this case you do remember specifically ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the secretary of the Hollywood Writers Mobilization when it was first formed ? 
Mr. COLmIN. The executive secretary was Pauline Lauber.
Mr. TAVENNER. L-a-u-b-e-r. Is that the spelling?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. IS she also known by the name of Pauline Lauber Finn? 
Mr. CorLINS. Yes; I think so. 
Mr. TAVENNER. F-i-n-n? (Mr. Collins nodding affirmatively.),
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall discussing among members of the Communist Party any arrearage in dues of Robert Rossen ?
Mr. COLLNS. Oh, I think he was in arrears; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You think he was in arrears? 
Mr. COLINs. Yes; I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember the extent to which Robert Rossen was in arrears in the payment of his assessments ? 
Mr. COLLINS. It was a considerable amount of money, but I couldn't tell exactly. It was a handy sum.
Mr. VELDE. Could you put any limits on that in dollars and cents ?
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, it was in the lower registers of four figures I would say. One of the tests of being a good Communist was to pay your dues so that there must have been some criticism of Rossen. 242 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you name other persons who were connected with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, John Howard Lawson was one of the prime movers. I don't offhand-No, I don't remember anybody else.
Mr. KEARNEY. IS he doing any writing in Hollywood at the present time? 
Mr. COLLINS. I doubt that very much.
Mr. KEARNEY. Are any of the 10 convicted Hollywood writers doing any writing at the present time that you know of? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, no. I think these men were just recently re- leased, just in this past week, from jail, and, you know, I doubt that they are doing any writing in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any other plan for raising funds by the Communist Party used in Hollywood to your knowledge besides the payment of dues and special assessments ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think that people were asked, who might have been sympathetic but not so sympathetic that they were party members. They might have been asked for contributions. I have heard of such things, although I don't know from my own experience. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINS (continuing). I don't know from my own experience, but I heard that people were asked if they would contribute money even if they were not in, and I imagine that in the resistance movement days that people would have contributed money who were really not particularly sympathetic with the aims of communism at all but who admired the struggle that the Communists were making in the resistance movement against Nazi Germany.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were benefits held to which actors and writers were invited ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, but these were not Communist Party benefits. I mean they might have been benefits for Loyalist Spain or benefits for any cause which a great many people supported.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, let us go back for a few moments to your first membership in the Communist Party. I believe you stated that in 1938Mr. COLLINS. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). You united with the party.
Mr. COLLINS. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were you assigned to a cell, a particular cell?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe to the committee the organiza- tional set-up as you found it to be ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, a group has a chairman and a literature director who's responsible for selling the innumerable pamphlets, books, and so on, on the subject and is supposed to give some little resume of what the most recent material is and to sell it; the membership director, whose job is not only what kind of work the membership is doing in the party or in organizations, various outside organizations, but also he's mainly concerned with recruiting, with the organizer of the branch or the chairman of the branch. And then the dues. The financial director. This would be called the executive of the branch. They would prepare an agenda for the  INDUSTRY 243 meeting which would take up perhaps some general political education and in some cases a specific question which might have to do with the work, the mass organization work, of one or more of the members. (Representative John S. Wood returned to hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINs (continuing). These meetings are, as a rule, fairly long and not terribly interesting. And they, you know, are very mild in terms of content. They would discuss day-to-day questions, you know, whatever those happened to be, the political questions of the day. Now, for instance, I imagine that today, like everybody else in America, a Communist branch would be discussing the Truman-MacArthur dispute. This would be the topic of discussion or one of the topics of discussion. It might not be discussed precisely from the perspective of the rest of the country, but it would be discussed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you mean by that it would be discussed from the standpoint of the interest of the Communist PartyMr. COLLINS. And of the Soviet Union.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). And of the Soviet Union ? (Mr. Collins nodding affirmatively.)
Mr. TAVENNER. At the meetings did you also discuss the ways and means of carrying into effect the influence which you desired to be exerted upon the various groups that you were members of, such as the Writers' Guild ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. The chances are this wouldn't be discussed in a branch meeting; that this would only be discussed in the prewar years in a fraction meeting, and in the war years, if at all, in a progressive caucus-that is, a group of Communists and many non-Communists. During the war years, during the so-called Browder period, the Communists tried not to have separate meetings. They-I mean of a mass organization. They tried to do away with the fractions on the theory that there were no interests of the mass organization that were in any way different from the Communists' and, therefore, anything that could be discussed in a Communist meeting could be discussed outside of it. With the end of the Browder period, I think this changed, and what is going on now I wouldn't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee who were members of this first group to which you were assigned as far as you can recall? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I have named almost all the members of this group so far. There was Ring Lardner, Budd Schulberg, and Paul Jarrico. This was the basis of the group. There were other people, but I don't know that I ever saw them subsequently, and consequently I don't'really remember them.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many of those persons did you collect dues and assessments from ?
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, I guess all of them, but at that time the assess- ments amounted to quite-didn't amount to a great deal of money. We were all young writers and all beginning, and it was a very small amount of money, as I remember, a month. About a hundred dollars, I think; a little over or a little under.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in that particular group or cell ? (Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room.) 81595-51-pt. 1---13 244  
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I find that hard to answer, because I don't remember, because it could have been a year and a half or a year, somewhere around in there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you then transferred or assigned to some other group ?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee about that.
Mr. COLLINS. It was another group, and some of the same people came along, and I can't remember much about it. It met at the house of a man called Martin Berkeley who was a screen writer at the time and who I think subsequently left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Martin Berkeley?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. B-e-r-k-e-1-e-y. And I remember from that group only Sam Ornitz, Samuel Ornitz, O-r-n-i-t-z.
Mr. TAVENNER. Samuel Ornitz was one of the 10 who appeared be- fore this committee in 1947 ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any other branches or units of the Communist Party? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, yes, I must have been assigned to several subsequently, but I don't really remember the dates or I mean the-You know, it's not only a great many years ago but a great many other meetings were going on, and I don't'remember the precise dates or what the groups were. There was a group I belonged to somewhere in there, and I remember a couple of fresh faces, but that's about all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what were the names of the new faces ?
Mr. COLLIN. Well, a man called Herbert Blach6 and his wife, B-l-a-c-h-g. I think he had been a silent movie actor. And a woman called Nora Hallgren.
Mr. TAVENNER. Could you spell the last name? I don't know. 
Mr. COLLIuN. H-a-l-l-g-r-e-n. And I understood she had once worked for Lenin or been his secretary or something. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In Russia?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes. (Representative Francis E. Walter returned to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how she is presently employed ?
Mr. COLLINS. No, I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. How was she employed at that time ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know that she was. I think that her husband worked somewhere, but he wasn't-I don't recall him as in the group., See, after all, the Communist Party, for reasons that are now evident, was not anxious to have everybody know who everybody else was, and there was, in the efforts of security, a certain amount of holding the same people together, especially when the work-as for instance, my work-was in specific mass organizations. I mean in the Screen Writers' Guild, in the mobilization. So, therefore, I would know only except by hearsay the Communists in those particular organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I have been asking you about the names of various Communists here. I understand your reply is that in each instance you know of your own personal knowledge that, they were members of the Communist Party and you're not relying upon hearsay testimony. 244 
Mr. COLrLNS. Well, I find that hard to answer, because I don't remember, because it could have been a year and a half or a year, somewhere around in there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you then transferred or assigned to some other group?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee about that.
Mr. COLLINS. It was another group, and some of the same people came along, and I can't remember much about it. It met at the house of a man called Martin Berkeley who was a screen writer at the time and who I think subsequently left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Martin Berkeley?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. B-e-r-k-e-l-e-y. And I remember from that group only Sam Ornitz, Samuel Ornitz, O-r-n-i-t-z.
Mr. TAVENNER. Samuel Ornitz was one of the 10 who appeared before this committee in 1947 ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any other branches or units of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, yes, I must have been assigned to several subsequently, but I don't really remember the dates or I mean the-You know, it's not only a great many years ago but a great many other meetings were going on, and I don't-remember the precise dates or what the groups were. There was a group I belonged to somewhere in there, and I remember a couple of fresh faces, but that's about all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what were the names of the new faces?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, a man called Herbert Blach6 and his wife, B-l-a-c-h-e. I think he had been a silent movie actor. I don't know. And a woman called Nora Hallgren.
Mr. TAVENNER. Could you spell the last name ?
Mr. COLuiNs. H-a-l-l-g-r-e-n. And I understood she had once worked for Lenin or been his secretary or something.
Mr. TAVENNER. In Russia?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes. (Representative Francis E. Walter returned to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how she is presently employed ?
Mr. COLLINS. NO, I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. How was she employed at that time ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know that she was. I think that her husband worked somewhere, but he wasn't-I don't recall him as in the group., See, after all, the Communist Party, for reasons that are now evident, was not anxious to have everybody know who everybody else was, and there was, in the efforts of security, a certain amount of holding the same people together, especially when the work-as for instance, my work-was in specific mass organizations. I mean in the Screen Writers' Guild, in the mobilization. So, therefore, I would know only except by hearsay the Communists in those particular organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I have been asking you about the names of various Communists here. I understand your reply is that in each instance you know of your own personal knowledge that, they were members of the Communist Party and you're not relying upon hearsay testimony. 246 
Mr. VELDE. IS that her first name or last name ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's a first name. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Abe Polonsky ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVNNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Commu- nist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What connection did he have with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, if any ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, similar to Lawson's connection, which is that Polonsky, like Lawson, is a man of undeniable intellectual capacity, is very sharp, quite talented, and he had a certain influence in'the mobilization on this level. He had had, I think, as I remember, he had been overseas in the war, and I can't tell precisely when he came home, so that, if he was in the mobilization, it must have been in its latter years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. COLLINS. He could have been. I don't remember exactly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with John Bright, B-r-i-g-h-t?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member'of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Now I only remember him way back in the late thirties. He was a member in those days. But what's happened to him in the last decade I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Millard Lampell, L-a-m-p-e-l-1?
Mr. COLLINS. I can't say I was ever in a meeting with Lampell.
Mr. TAVENNER. Gertrude Purcell was a member of the board of the Screen Writers' Guild in 1938 and 1939. Were you acquainted with her?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I knew her.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. I didn't really-I didn't recall that. She might have been, but, as I say, I have got to remember the precise room and place and person.
Mr. TAVENNER. Gordon Kahn, K-a-h-nMr. COLLINS. I remember- 
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). Was a member of the board.
Mr. COLLINS. I remember Kahn was in.
Mr. TAVENNER. He was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you mentioned in the course of your testimony the name of Leonardo Bercovici?
Mr. COLLINS. No. I worked with Bercovici on a film that was supposed to be about the San Francisco conference for the OWI.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name, please ?
Mr. COLLINS. B-e-r-c-o-v-i-c-i. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. At that time he was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Dorothy Tree Uris?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; but I never knew her in the party .. 247 
Mr. TAVENNER. You did not?
Mr. COLLINS. No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with an individual by the name of Sam Moore?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; but I never knew him in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with an individual by the name of Elizabeth Leech or Elizabeth Leech Glenn ? 
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. She held an official position in the Communist Party and was also connected with the Hollywood section at one time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did she hold any position in Hollywood as far as you know other than as a functionary of the Communist Party? 
Mr. COLLINS. She may have worked at a studio. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her position in the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think she took Madelaine Ruthven's job after Ruthven left, but I'm-she had some such job.
Mr. TAVENNER. By that you mean she collected dues or-Mr. COLLINS. Well, she was a secretary.
Mr. TAVENNER. A secretary?
Mr. COLLINS. I think she was an open Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with her husband, Charles Glenn?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I think he was an open Communist also.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he serve as a functionary of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know. I think he served as some kind of .functionary in the Hollywood section at one time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know an individual by the name of Margaret Potts ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't think so.. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Frank Tuttle?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; years ago.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party? Tut- tle? T-u-t-t-l-e?
Mr. COLmNs. He was in the early days. I went to a meetingseveral-at his house. I haven't seen him in a decade either. I don't know what happened to him. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever have occasion to meet William Schneiderman ? 
Mr. COLLINS. No. I saw him, but I never met him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you see William Schneiderman?
Mr. COLLINS. Well,'at one of these State conventions of the party he made a 4-hour speech, I remember. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe, Mr. Chairman, this is a good place for a break. 
Mr. WOOD. The committee will take a recess now until 3 o'clock. (Thereupon, at 1:10 p. m., the hearing was recessed to reconvene at 3 p. m. this date.) AFTERNOON SESSION (The hearing was resumed at 2:15 p. m., the members of the committee present 'being Representatives John S. Wood (chairman), 248  Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter.) TESTIMONY OF RICHARD J. COLLINS-Resumed
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Collins, at this time I would like to ask you questions regarding certain organizations which we understand you were from time to time affiliated with. Were you at any time a member of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League?
Mr. COINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you name any other members of the Communist Party who were members of that league along with you?
Mr. COLLINS. No. I belonged to the Anti-Nazi League before I became a member of the Communist Party, and never had much influence in it. I was just a rank-and-file member. So that I wouldn't know who was a Communist in it and who wasn't. The fact is that the Communists in it must have been an infinitesimal fraction of the membership, because thousands of people against Hitler were eager members of the Anti-Nazi League.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not V. J. Jerome was active in that organization, directly or in any indirect manner?
Mr. COLLINS. I wouldn't know that either. It was before, as I say, my real experience.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the League of American Writers ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; around 1938 or 1939; but outside of the Spanish civil war I don't really remember what the issues were of the league, and I wouldn't want to go into it. I don't remember the content of the league's program at all, although I think it is all a part of the public record. The point is that anything that had to do with loyalist Spain, I joined, as I would join today, because I believe in loyalist Spain. So if there are any organizations like the Joint Anti-Fascist Committee, I undoubtedly was a member of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated in any way with the Progressive Citizens of America ?
Mr. COLLINS. It is very possible. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your chief activities were confined to the Commu- nist Party itself and to the Screen Writers' Guild and the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, rather than to Communist-front organizations generally; is that true ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, yes; I guess it is true. I mean, since I don't really know the history of many of the organizations I joined, I would have to go along with you in saying they are Communist-front organizations, although I am not sure in most cases. Anything that seemed to fulfill the program that I was interested in, I would have joined.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you understand by a Commmnist-front organization, in the experience that you had in the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it seems to me that in some cases a Communistfront organization, I couldn't give you my own definition, but I assume 'the meaning today is a front in which Communists are active or in which they organize the basis for the committee or group.  INDUSTRY 249 
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you include those instances also in which the Communist Party gains strong influence by infiltration of its members . into the group ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; if they have some influence in it I suppose you could call it a Communist front, but there is an enormous difference between being a Communist and belonging to two or three organizations, especially when you take them out of the context of the years and go back to them. I remember in a Gallup poll around 1938 that 74 or 75 percent of the people said they favored the Loyalists over Franco, so that to belong to an organization that was in favor of Loyalist Spain at that time was a logical position. If you were against Hitler, you might have joined the Anti-Nazi League, and others. Coming up as late as the peace conferences, it seems to me there is a mistake made when the peace conferences are labeled "Communist fronts" and you let it go at that, because people joined the peace con- ferences not because they were Communists, but because peace is very alive. The way to get Communist fronts out of the way is not to abolish them, but to have different kinds of organizations people can belong to that will represent different issues which people believe in very strongly. Undoubtedly there were Communists who, for some reason or other, did not join any of those organizations, while a man might feel that since Communists at one time or other were associated with almost every liberal organization in the United States, you couldn't avoid at some time being associated with Communists.
Mr. KEAnNEY. I am very glad to hear you say that. With reference to the signatures on the "Stockholm peace petition," don't you agree there are a lot of fine people in this country who, because the word "peace" was on it, signed that petition ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think that is absolutely true. I read an article in the New Yorker which said the conservative members of boroughs in Switzerland and in France had signed it because they felt it was a pledge of some kind, and when they heard the Russians had signed it, they felt perhaps the Russians were pushing it along. To say everyone who signed the petition was a Communist, would be a serious mistake, in my opinion. The question of peace is a very serious question. I think also, if you go back 10 years, the situation has changed. Take American-Russian friendship. In 1942-43 it looked like a reasonable thing. So people who belonged to that in 1942-43 would be in a different category from people who would belong to'it now.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to read from testimony given by J. Edgar Hoover on this subject on March 26, 1947: For the most part, front organizations assumed the character of either a mass or. membership organization or a paper organization. Both solicited and used names of prominent persons. Literally hundreds of groups .and organizations have either been infiltrated or organized primarily to accomplish the purposes Sof promoting the interests of the Soviet Union in the United States, the promotion of Soviet war and.peace aims, the exploitation of Negroes in the United States, work among foreign-language groups, and to secure a favorable viewpoint toward the Communists in domestic, political, social, and economic issues. The first requisite for front organizations is an idealistic sounding title. Hundreds of such organizations have come into being and have gone out of existtence when their true purposes have become known or exposed while others with high-sounding names are continually springing up. 250 INDUSTRY I would like to ask you about two other organizations. Were you a member of the People's Educational Center in Hollywood ?
Mr. COLLINS. I taught a class at what was either the People's Educa- tional Center or its equivalent. I don't know if it was called School for Writers or what it was called, but I taught a class a couple semesters. Paul Jarrico and I taught it.
Mr. TAVENNER. In addition to Paul Jarrico, were there others known to you as Communist Party members who taught at that center?
Mr. COLLINS. There was a class in screen writing. We came in on Tuesday night and we worked out a schedule, and the students did some work and there was discussion of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive any compensation for your work in teaching ?
Mr. COLLINS. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Mr. Jarrico ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. It was a work of love.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Peace Mobilization Committee?
Mr. COLIms. I never was active in it, but I might have had a membership in it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to meet Communists from foreign countries?
Mr. CoLLINs. I met a man who was foreign editor of the French Communist paper, L'Humanitg, and he gave me the Duclos letter, or what was going to be the Duclos letter, before it was printed. And I met an Indian railroad union official.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean an official of the Government of India?
Mr. COLLINS. No; he was an official of the Railway Workers Union, as I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. In India?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. He was visiting here. He spoke about the con- ditions in India, the living conditions of the people in India, which are quite severe; the fact that they eat flesh, as he says, perhaps once a year, and many millions of people are born, live, and die in the street without ever being under shelter. He was enormously impressed with the amount of energy Americans must have since they eat so well, and he was dissatisfied with the working class of America because he didn't see how they would ever be militant men. He had looked over the country and didn't see any chance for a class struggle.
Mr. TAVENNER. He was discouraged about the prospect of com- munism among the working class in America because of the good conditions in which they worked?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. He said in relation to his own country it was impossible. He said that in his country the people had to do something, but in the United States he despaired of their interest. That is about it. I found him interesting and I remember the conversation.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to question you a little further about your experience in the Communist Party. In our study of communism in various areas of the United States and in various fields, such as labor, we have found that a very exact type of discipline is required within the Communist Party. Was that true in Hollywood?  INDUSTRY 251 
Mr. COLLINs. No. I would say that the discipline of the intellectuals in Hollywood is quite gentle. It is probably not possible to handle these people on the same basis as perhaps workers in other industries are handled. In the main, a man in Hollywood feels a very gentle party hand. There is a feeling in the party, anyway, that intellectuals are unstable, and I think Sartre puts it very well when he says, "Thinking brings them in and thinking can take them out." The fact it comes out of thinking and not absolute need is the thing that makes it not possible to put such a clamp on the membership as may be true in other places. On the other hand, I discovered when I started to disagree violently I was not popular. But I could disagree as I did in the Maltz controversy, where I supported Maltz, without anyone discussing it with me or any discipline at all. There is a fair freedom. I don't think the party could keep the people if there wasn't. But on basic questions they have to accept the policy of the party. On small points there can be arguments and disagreements. It also depends on how strong the party is. In 1946 and 1947 they were very gentle, because their position was poor and they didn't want to get rid of people who disagreed; but in the days they were going well, I think they would have asked a man who was difficult to leave. Later on they didn't like to lose anybody.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU state that in major matters of policy you were required to carry out party lines and instructions?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. In a thing like the German-Russian Pact, you would have to accept the policy of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of any instance in which party discipline was attempted of any member of the cell or branch to which you were attached ?
Mr. COLLINS. You might call it discipline; it came out of the Duclos letter. After the Duclos letter, it revised the Communist Party's thinking of how postwar America would be. Browder thought there might be some peaceful transition to socialism, and so on. Mr. Duclos apparently didn't agree with this, and sent a letter to the American Party saying that Browder had strayed from the Marxist position, and it caused a great furor in the party. This was one of the things which I suppose was the turning point in my party life.
Mr. VELDE. Will you place a date on that incident ?
Mr. COLLIS. That was June 1945. The situation was that a man who loved Browder on Monday hated him on Thursday. Once the national committee of the Communist Party said he was no good, the chorus filled the room. The party indulged in what was termed "self-criticism." I could not quite accept the self-criticism. It seemed absurd, since in order to have been a member of the party previously it was necessary to go along with the Browder position, and in order to stay in the party subsequently it was necessary to change that position and so therefore the confession of error was not individual but mass, and as such seemed to me to have no value. The whole situation was reviewed, and John Howard Lawson was reviewed as well, and he was relieved of his position of responsibility.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that position at that time ?
Mr. COLLNS. Whatever it was, in fact it was the leadership of the section. The leadership was then given to other people, I think to 252 INDUSTRY Waldo Salt and Charles Glenn, and much to our surprise we discovered that Jack Lawson was the liaison between the county and the section, having been given the job by the county, which made him once again the leader of the section.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us be certain that we get that in an understandable way. As a result of the Duclos letter, there was initiated a proceeding to oust him from his position of leadership?
Mr. COLLINS. There was a review of the entire leadership, nation- ally. Then in all the local committees this presumably took place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who initiated this action?
Mr. COLLNS. In a new committee, I think, each branch had one representative.
Mr. TAVENNER. What part did you take in it?
Mr. COLLINS. I was the representative from my branch. Another committee had prepared this document on Lawson after talking to him. They prepared documents on others, too. I went downtown when Nemmy Sparks was in charge and presented my position regarding Lawson, and Nemmy Sparks listened to it quite coldly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was Nemmy Sparks ?
Mr. COLLINS. Organizer in Los Angeles County. He listened closely and I was subsequently stripped of my epaulets and I held no position in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. After taking action which you thought removed Lawson from the position he then held, he was placed in the same position, though known under a different title? lMr. COLLNS. Yes. As I look back, I think Nemmy Sparks was right in supporting Lawson instead of supporting me, from the Communist Party point of view.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any other instances concerning Commu- nist Party discipline ?
Mr. COLLINS. Not that I remember. I think a great many people like me were profoundly disturbed by the events following the Duclos letter-the Maltz incident was after that-and I know people who are either out or thinking of going out of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you repeat that, please?
Mr. COLLINS. There were a good many people after the Duclos letter and after the Maltz incident who were dissatisfied and wanted to get out of the party. Some have gotten out and some have not. It is hard to get out, not because anybody tells you you can't butt because you have associations of many years, and you have liberal question that you believed in together, and probably still do, and you have many hours of energy and time invested, and it is only when issues become sharp that decisions are made.
Mr. TAVENNER. It requires more courage to get out than get in?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know. I think it takes something to get out. I don't know what it is.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were in a position to observe the various switches in the Communist Party line during the period you were a member. Will you give the committee the benefit of your knowledge regarding certain outstanding instances of Communist Party switches?
Mr. COLLINS. One of the main switches prior to the Duclos letter was the Nazi-Soviet pact. Prior to the Nazi-Soviet pact, the Soviet  253 Union's position of collective security against Nazi Germany was a good position and had my support. The Soviet Union also helped Loyalist Spain. When the Nazi-Soviet pact occurred there was great consternation on the part of many people. It didn't seem reasonable for this pact to have been made. The explanation was given to me by Sam Ornitz, the great explainerMr. TAVENNER. IS he one of the 10 who appeared before this committee in 1947 ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you have already identified him as a mem- ber of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. COLLINS. Ornitz explained right away what was subsequently the position taken by the party, that this was a delaying tactic on the part of Soviet Russia because they were not prepared at that time to go to war. It was about June 21, 1941, whell the Soviet Union was attacked by Nazi Germany.
Mr. TAVENNER. What propaganda efforts were made during that period to support the various lines of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. COLLINS. I don't remember that we did. I remember the slogan, "The Yanks are not Coming," and so on. A lot of organizations were smashed during that period. Next was the Finland question. The Finland question did do a lot of harm to the Communists so far as mass organizations and so on. What had happened when Germany attacked Soviet Russia was explained again by Sam Ornitz in a social gathering, and he explained it by saying it was now a good war, because the entrance of the Soviet Union had changed the character of the war. Before then it was a. bad war. Now it was a good war.
Mr. TAVENNER. This individual took the position it was a good war between Russia and Germany, but a bad war between the United States and Germany
Mr. COLLINS. At that time the United States was not officially in the war. The last switch was the switch surrounding the Duclos letter, and it was the switch that brought about my exit, which I will admit took. me a long time. It took me a long time to get in and it took me a long time to get out.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any change in direction about the use of names for branches after the Duclos letter?
Mr. COLLINS. I also recall that a cute instance was that the branches were to, take the names of Communists who were heroes, but it was explained they should be dead.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dead Communists ?
Mr. COLLINS. Dead Communists, because, as in the case of Browder, you never could tell. Therefore they were given names of dead Communists. I was going to go into the question about the Screen Writers' Guild. We had no fraction meetings and had to rely to some degree on Lawson's leadership on the guild board. 254 INDUSTRY This was the period the policy had changed from a no-strike policy to a support of the strike. There was a tremendous amount of shillyshallying, so that when I got to the board I didn't know how I would vote. Lawson made a speech, and then we voted. For the first time I was getting very uncomfortable with this kind of procedure.
Mr. TAVENNER. In that connection, the Communist Party has made an effort to claim it is democratic in the conduct of its business. Are you commenting now upon that claim of democratic type of action ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it was democratic in the sense that if we did discuss it there would be general agreement, presumably, and if you disagreed you went with the majority. To go back to this, Dudley NicholsMr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. No. Spoke for support of the secretaries. We beat him down. We had a no-strike policy. Six months later John Howard Lawson was saying to the Screen Writers' Guild board that we should support the strike. And Frank Partos, also on the board, said, "Please, I ask you, are we saying what we said 6 months ago." I found it was hard to take. In 1947 I decided I was not going to run for the board. I wanted to withdraw. I must say the party was not against my not running as I had disobeyed several directives. I think that covers the switches.
Mr. TAVENNER. That all led up to about the time you terminated. your relationship with the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. In 1947 I was subpenaed to come here to Washington before this committee. I found myself with a group of Communists and non-Communists. I found I didn't have the guts to break with men I knew and liked personally. I went to New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your purpose in going to New York?
Mr. COLLINS. It was to get out of political activity. It was not the courageous thing to do; but I did it.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is, to break with those you had been associated with in the Communist Party.
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. I came back at Christmas time in 1947 and wap asked for my dues for the year and I refused, but I didn't refuse on a clear-cut basis. I kind of weasled out of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who demanded the payment of the dues
Mr. COLLINS. Nobody demanded it. Jarrico suggested it, and I said no. In 1948, toward the end of 1948, I came back-no, it was about the middle of 1949 that I came back. When I came back Jarrico asked me whether I was going to come back to the party, and for the first time I said no. I still did not explain my position completely. I said no I wasn't. This state of affairs lasted until 1950. In 1950 I was beginning to be extremely uncomfortable with my position, which was that I was considered a Communist by almost all of Hollywood, and I was considered a renegade by my ex-associates. Also, I had the fear, which became a nightmare, that it the event of a war with the Soviet Union I would be considered a friend of the Soviet Union. By that time I had made steps to being anti-Soviet, in the sense that I did not believe the Soviet's presentation of the state of the world, nor did I believe it was a paradise. I had a real fear that I would be  255 considered, in the event of such a war, a friend of the Soviet Union, when actually I was an enemy. Accordingly, I went in February 1950 to the Federal Bureau of Investigation with a note in which I said I had been a Communist, was one no longer, wanted my loyalty to the United States understood, but at that time I didn't wish to discuss my former associates. They honored that. We discussed the workings of the party, however.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you engaged in any Communist Party activi- ties since your break with the party in 1947 to 1949 ? I think the break occurred during that period ?
Mr. COLLINS. I did do what could be called, I suppose, Communist activity, although I did not think of it as such at that time. I participated in the organization of a peace meeting in 1948. I also signed for personal reasons, whenever I could, such as the amicus curiae brief, for men with whom I had been associated. As far as I recall, that is about it. I did go along with the peace movement for a certain length of time. I went to the peace conference at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, and went to Madison Square Garden and listened to the speeches. I remember those things.
Mr. TAVENNER. Other than the things you have mentioned, have you engaged in any other Communist Party activity? 
Mr. COLLINS. I have engaged in no Communist Party activity at all, nor do I intend to. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You consider that your break with the party is definite and final?
Mr. COLLINS. I consider it irrevocable, and I imagine the party does too. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When was the subpena to appear here before this committee served upon you, do you recall?
Mr. COLLINS. About 5 weeks ago, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. The subpena shows the date February 28, 1951.
Mr. COLLINS. That is probably right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has any effort been made, since the service of that subpena upon you, to dissuade you from making a full disclosure to this committee of all you know regarding communism? 
Mr. COLLINS. Well, there was one effort made; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee about it?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, a couple weeks ago, or 10 days ago, I re- ceived a phone call from Paul Jarrico, who said he would like to see me. I asked him to come over, which he did, after dinner. He said he understood I had made some arrangements with this committee, and I should be careful with such arrangements. I don't think he realized the depths of my perfidy at this point. He asked if I would give my personal assurance that I would not give any names. He understood I was out of the party, but he wanted my personal assurance that I would not give any names. I didn't give that assurance. We then had a long political discussion. Paul Jarrico feels the justice of his position, and he went over the situation that he believes the Soviet Union is devoted to the interests of all people and is peaceloving as well. I said'to him, "It is not for me. not for me." It may be a fine country, but it is 256 INDUSTRY He said, "How can you be so sure ?" I said, "I can be sure because I was in the Communist Party almost 10 years, and having lived through that I can tell that is not the kind of country I would like to live in." I looked at my watch and it was a quarter of 12, after 4 hours of discussion, and he said, "I think on the basis of 14 years of friendship I have the right to ask for your personal assurance'that you will not give any names." I said, "I will give you my personal assurance that I will not give any names if you will give me your personal assurance that in the event of a war between the United States and the Soviet Union you will do nothing to help the Soviet Union." Paul said, "You know my answer to that." He didn't explain the answer, but is was that if it was an aggressive war of the United States he would not support it. I said, "I am not interested in whether it is aggressive. I want your personal assurance that if there is war between this country and the Soviet Union you will do nothing to help the Soviet Union." Since he could not give me this assurance, I would not give him mine, and since we would not lie to each other, we had no further conversation.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. In these days of disclosures of disloyalty, it is re- freshing to find someone who has the courage to make a contribution to the security of the United States, and I trust you have made an example for other people who must by this time know that the aims of the United States are for peace.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I have quite a few questions, but in view of the short time remaining, I wish to ask the witness only one or two short ones. Have you ever had time, or have you ever read, the law under which this committee operates? Have you ever had that called to your attention ?
Mr. COLLINS. NO, I don't think so.
Mr. DOYLE. Let me read it to you. The Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole or by subcommittee, is authorized to make from time to time investigations of (1) the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States (2) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution, and (3) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress in any necessary remedial legislation. Have you any suggestion to Congress as to any remedial legislation which might be considered fairly within our Constitution to meet this problem of subversive misconduct and un-American activities?
Mr. COLLINS. I can't say I have. That is a field way outside my knowledge and experience.
Mr. DOYLE. What is your answer to this question: Do you feel, then, that this committee, functioning as it has, say with you today, and as you have known it to function by written report and by hearsay, is serving a valuable function to meet this problem  257 I
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it has served a valuable function as far as am concerned in that it has given me an opportunity to clear myself, and it gives that possibility to other people. Insofar as its other activities, I still could not comment on it because I am not familiar enough with it.
Mr. DoYLE. I call your attention to the common understanding of term "subversive" and the technical definition of the term "subvert." I took occasion to look it up several days ago, and it means, "To overturn from the foundation; to overthrow; to ruin utterly; to destroy; also, to upset, uproot, or the like." Is it your opinion that the Communist Party of the United States, as you knew it when you were a member of it, was favoring the subversive destruction of the constitutional form of government as we know it in this country ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I suppose in the sense that it favors the Soviet regime, it favors the destruction of the Constitution, but insofar as my activities were concerned, I could scarcely say that is true. The activities I was engaged in until the time I left were not disloyal to the United States. They may have been misguided, but disloyal they were not. Since the aim eventually is a Soviet state, that certainly would not be constitutional government as we have it.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. I get the difference. In other words, your experience had no such purpose ?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. Whereas the purpose of the Communist Party of the United States, as I take it from your last statement, is to set up a Soviet form of government in the United States, in the world?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. But it is a long step between an eventual goal and possibilities. In other words, the people who become Communists, at least in my time, didn't join because the Communists were going to overthrow our form of government by force and violence.
Mr. DOYLE. Was there any change later ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. Now, because of the worsened conditions, no one can be on the side of the United States and the Communists at the same time. During the earlier period there didn't seem to be a divergence between the position of Soviet Russia and of the United States, not until 1946, when the cold war became sharper.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. Due to the shortness of time I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank Mr. Collins for coming before the committee and answering questions frankly and openly, as it appears to me, and giving this valuable information to the committee as to the techniques of the Communist Party in organizing the underground, and I hope this will serve as an example to others called before the committee.
Mr. WooD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. I want to add my personal thanks to the witness for coming here and testifying today.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. In all, how many active members of the Communist Party did you know in Hollywood ?
Mr. COLLINS. I knew, I suppose, about 20, but I understood that there were many, many more. Mr. JACKSON. What would your best estimate be as to membership at its peak during the war ?  INDUSTRY 
Mr. COLLINS. Several hundred.
Mr. JACKSON. Several hundred. And of those of whom you have personal knowledge, how many have broken with the party so far?
Mr. COLLINS. About one-fourth.
Mr. JACKSON. About 25 percent?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Have broken with the party ? 
Mr. COLLINS. Broken in various degrees. Some have broken in that they don't go to meetings, and some have broken because they don't believe in it.
Mr. JACKSON. In varying degrees, 75 percent might be considered to belong actively or to be in the fellow-traveler classification ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. In the event of a real show-down it is hard to say how many would stay. I have detected signs of disturbance in people in whom I never detected it before.
Mr. JACKSON. I join with other members of the committee in saying I feel you not only have rendered a service to yourself, but I believe you have rendered a distinct service to the country.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. You stated that if you had appeared before the com- mittee in 1947 you would not have testified ?
Mr. COLLINS. I would have taken, the line taken by the other members.
Mr. POTTER. What was the reason for that?
Mr. COLLINS. It would be because at that time it seemed to me that purely on American democratic constitutional grounds there was a question of the propriety of asking a man his political beliefs. Without gong into the question of its propriety today, there has been a marked change in the world situation since 1947, and there has been as great a change in me. It is hard to tell where one thing begins and the other ends.
Mr. POTTER. That is all. You have been a very willing witness.
Mr. WooD. There has been testimony indicating that individuals have been approached on the proposition of being passive members of the party, contributing to it in the form of dues or otherwise, but not taking active part. Do you know of any such approach ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. That would have been a recent development, when people might feel it is too hot, or because they might have slight disagreements, but would still be willing to contribute money. But I would say that when one leaves the party, as has been said, they start out a little ways and then they go a long ways. Once they live in a different world, it is very hard for them to go back.
Mr. WooD. I join with other members of the committee in ex- pressing appreciation for your cooperation and for the very frank and full manner in which you have given information, and unless the committee determines at some future time to ask your appearance, you will be excused, and the committee stands adjourned until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. (Thereupon, at 4: 30 p. m. on Thursday, April 12, 1951, an adjournment was taken until Friday, April 13, 1951, at 10 a. m.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 1 FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10:10 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, Harold H. Velde (appearance as noted in transcript), Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler and Courtney E. Owens, investigators; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order. Let the record show that there are present the following members of the committee: Mr. Walter, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Kearney,
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Potter, and Mr. Wood, a quorum of the full committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to call as the first witness Mr. Waldo Salt.
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn, please? You solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth ?
Mr. SALT. I do.
Mr. WooD. Have a seat. TESTIMONY OF WALDO SALT, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ROBERT W. KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS 