Mr. BREWER. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ? 474 
Mr. BREWER. I was born in Hall County, Nebr., August 9, 1909.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation?
Mr. BREWER. I am international representative of.the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees assigned to the Hollywood motion picture studios.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where is your place of residence?
Mr. BREWER. 716 North Curson Avenue, Los Angeles 46, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee, please, a brief state- ment of your educational training?
Mr. BREWER. I graduated from Grand Island, Nebr., high school in 1926. I had previously completed grammar school. I went one semester to the Grand Island Baptist College. That has been the extent of my education.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your employment record since your work in college?
Mr. BREWIER. I went to work in a theater and worked in a theater for a period of about 10 years, but during one period between 1933 and 1934 I worked for the Government as labor compliance officer of the National Recovery Administration for the State of Nebraska. Then in 1937 I was elected president of the Nebraska State Federation of Labor, which'is the State branch of the American Federation of Labor. I occupied that position until 1943, when I went to work for the Government with the War Production Board in Washington, where I worked until 1945, when I accepted my present position with the International Alliance.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you begin your work in California?
Mr. BREWER. I made one brief trip out there-I was on leave for a brief period-I made one brief trip there in late 1944 just before I left the War Production Board and went to my present occupation. That was my first visit to California studios. The second time was March 12, 1945. I arrived there about noon that day. That was the day the first Hollywood strike had started.
Mr. TAVENNER. And you have been engaged in work in connection with labor organizations since that date?
Mr. BREWER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And in Hollywood?
Mr. BREWER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Brewer, Mr. Dmytryk and Mr. Collins, in the course of their testimony before this committee, described the general aims and purposes of the Communist Party in Hollywood. Their testimony related chiefly to what have been called the talent guilds. Each of them indicated that there were others better able to advise the committee concerning Comniunist activity in the labor unions as distinguished from the talent guilds. Because of your long experience with labor unions in Hollywood we want to develop this information fully through your testimony. I would like to make it plain at the outset that the committee is not undertaking to investigate internal disputes within the labor unions. Our inquiry is limited solely to an investigation of 'the extent, character, and objectives of Communist infiltration of the motion,picture industry, either through labor organizations, other organizations, or individuals. Preliminary to questioning you relating to these matters, I would like for you to describe to the committee what the over-all organiza-  475 tional set-up of labor was in Hollywood in the late thirties and early forties. 
Mr. BREWER. Well, the Hollywood motion picture industry has had a rather turbulent labor history. In 1938 the organization which I represent had in its organization most of the mechanical crafts that have to do with the production of motion pictures. That is, we had the cameramen, the property craftsmen, what we call the grips, the costumers, the make-up artists, and most all of the skilled crafts that worked with the shooting companies on a motion picture set, as well as some of the men who prepared the sets and built the properties for the studios. We were a branch of the American Federation of Labor, that had historically embraced in its membership the amusement industry. Then there existed a local union of teamsters, a local union of plasterers, a local union of carpenters, all affiliated with the appropriate international of the American Federation of Labor that embraces those crafts along other lines. There was a local union of common laborers or building laborers, and later on there was an organization of office workers. That is quite a story in itself. Then in addition to that there were the talent guilds, which performed some of the functions of a union, but because they were composed of professionals instead of so-called laboring groups, they were in a different category, and most of them were independent with the exception of the Screen Actors' Guild, which was an affiliate of the Four A's, which is in turn an affiliate of the American Federation of Labor. Generally speaking, that is the structure.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what was your exact position in your particu- lar union ?
Mr. BREWER. My position was the international representative. I represented the national office of the local unions which existed in Hollywood. In other words, my job was to coordinate the activities of the various local unions which embraced the different crafts in our organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the official name of the union?
Mr. BREWER. International Alliance of Theatiical Stage Employees and Moving Picture Machine Operators of the United States and Canada is the official name.
Mr. TAVENNER. In order not to have to repeat that name, what are the initials by which it is known ? 
Mr. BREWER. IATSE or, shorter, IA.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the membership of that organization when you went to California? 
Mr. BREWER. Approximately 60,000 nationally, with between 15,000 and 17,000 of those in Hollywood. 
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result of your experience in connection with your work in Hollywood, do you consider that you are in a position to give information to this committee regarding the general over-all purposes of the Communist Party and its efforts to infiltrate Hollywood, particularly from the labor union side?
Mr. BREWER. Well, I made it my business to find out, because it was such an important factor, and I think I am. 81595-51-pt. 2---12 476 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to state in your own way to the committee what those over-all purposes of the Communist Party were from your experience, and what means they adopted to accomplish their purposes.
Mr. BREWER. I will be very happy to. I would like to say, if I may, at the outset, that as this story unfolds you will see, at least from my standpoint, that the Communist Party in Hollywood at a certain point developed a tremendous and powerful degree of control in the Hollywood community, not only in the labor unions but in the community itself, and in order that there might not be any misunderstanding, I want to make it clear that this extensive control does not exist in Hollywood today. The Hollywood strike of 1946 and the subsequent hearings of this committee in 1947 did a great deal to awaken the people of that community to this menace, and since that time their influence has declined. There still are a lot of them around, as this committee is proving, and we feel this committee is doing a great service in ferreting them out, but the back of their power that they had in 1945 and 1946, so far as its influence over the community is concerned, has been broken. I wanted to make that clear so that my story may not be misinterpreted.
Mr. TAVENNER. By referring to the Communist Party, were you speaking of it principally as an open. organization at that time as distnguished from underground activities at this particular time, at the present time ?
Mr. BREWER. Well, of course, the real power that they had in Hollywood was through their front organizations. The strength of the underground organization probably is as great today as it was then. It has been hurt some. But so far as the front organizations with which they dominated the thought and life of the community, they have been affected by the activities that have transpired.
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned that the hearings in 1947 of communism in Hollywood dampened the enthusiasm for the Hollywood Communist movement ?
Mr. BREWER. It did more than that. It shocked the community in a way that is hard to describe. As one of that small group that had been trying to make the community aware of what was goinr on I was cognizant of the problem we had in convincing the community of what was taking place under their noses and the community did not believe it. But when the hearings in 1947 took place and these individuals conducted themselves in the manner they did, it hit Hollywood like a broad slap in the face, and they began to take a new look, and since that time the Communist movement there has been pretty much on the defensive.
Mr. VELDE. You don't mean to say the hearings in 1947 completely exposed all the Communist Party members ? At that time there were only a dozen or so that were identified as members of the Communist Party, and during these past hearings we have probably identified as many as 50; I don't know the exact number.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ninety. 
Mr. VELDE. Ninety. I would like your comment on that.
Mr. BREWER. The point I want to make is that the average person in Hollywood did not believe the stories of Communist infiltration be-  INDUSTRY 477 fore the 1947 hearings. Since that time they have become aware of the menace and have been trying to help clean them up. Before that they were just ignoring them and were indifferent to them.
Mr. VELDE. DO you feel that there were as many Communists in Hollywood in 1947 as there are at the present time, but that they probably were not all identified at that time? 
Mr. BREWER. Oh, yes. I think the underground organization that is being exposed by this committee is completing the job which was only started by the 1947 hearings. But the real point I want to make is, it was the ordinary citizen that became awakened in 1947, the fellow who was not a Communist but who was completely indifferent to the efforts that had been made to expose them.
Mr. VELDE. That is all. 
Mr. WooD. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe my question was to this general effect, that I would like for you to tell the committee in your own way just what the objects and purposes, from your experience, were of the Communist Party in infiltrating Hollywood from the labor angle, and'to develop, as you can, the methods used by the Communist Party to accomplish their main objectives.
Mr. BREWER. Well, I think first of all that the effort to infiltrate and control the labor unions was a part of the total plan. I think there were separate parts of the plan, but I think there was an over-all plan, and that their effort to infiltrate and control labor was definitely a part of that plan. As to their motives, I think without a doubt the principal motive of the Communist Party was to use the motion-picture industry for propaganda purposes. They realized that was the area in which it was supreme. There was no industry in the world that had the influence over the mass thinking of the people of the world, particularly the western world, that this industry had. I think there can be no real doubt but that the ultimate goal of the Communist Party was to control the motion-picture industry for purposes of propaganda. You will see that they praised it as a progressive industry up to a point, and that point was until 1947, when they began to change and to brand it as an agent of the imperialistic United States. So, there can be no doubt, in my opinion, but that the goal was to control the content of films. I have an editorial in my possession which was published since Mr. Dmytryk's testimony which I think is indicative of the fact that that was their motive. They attack Mr. Dmytryk and say he is now free to make the frivolous kind of films that the industry is known for, and he will no longer be able to turn out the type he used to. There were many byproducts of this. One was influencing the motion-picture industry itself, and in some of the communications published as far back as 1938 we have evidence of the fact that they felt the Hollywood unions in themselves would be a powerful stimulus toward the development of an industrial union in the United States, which the Communist Party was pressing. There was the prestige they got out of being able to call upon the stars and personalities of the motion-picture industry. That was another byproduct of their program. 478 Then there was the question of funds. There have been tremendous sums of money supplied not only to the Communist Party but to activities they were directing behind the scenes, and much of the money was used, some directly and some indirectly, for the work of the Communist Party. Then there was another factor which is very significant, and that is the political power which they were able to maneuver. They were able to get behind the scenes of labor groups and political groups, and by their careful maneuvering and use of the fraction and techniques of dominating mass organizations, they were able to make decisions which the mass organizations and political organizations carried out. They wielded tremendous political power in California at the height of their power. I think that was a very important factor. Now as to the plan. The plan was, in my judgment, a very care- fully laid out one, and one which came directly from the Soviet Union. I have evidence which is in the form of testimony given before the State committee in California that this plan, along with plans for other activity on the west coast, was laid out and financed by eight agents of the Soviet Union. One individual was a man named Michael Aisenstein.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name, please?
Mr. BREWER. If I may refer to my notes. [After referring to notes.] It is A-i-s-e-n-s-t-e-i-n, Michael Aisenstein. He is identified as participating in meetings in Carmel and San Francisco in the years 1934 and 1935, and at that time he was Commissar for Heavy Industries of the U. S. S. R. and the Pacific coast representative of Amtorg Corp. According to this testimony, Mr. Aisenstein and the Soviet consul, an individual by the name of GalkovichMr. TAVENNER. Will you spell that name ?
Mr. BREWER. G-a-l-k-o-v-i-c-h-were active, and two of the people with whom these people were identified are Ella Winter, who was the wife of Lincoln Steffens and is now the wife of Donald Ogden StewartMr. TAVENNER. You are speaking a little too rapidly.
Mr. BREWER. I am sorry. This evidence indicates that money and material were furnished by these two individuals, Ella Winter and Albert Rhys Williams. This material was sent to Hollywood, and one to whom it was sent was Jeff Kibre.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell that name?
Mr. BREWER. J-e-f-f K-i-b-r-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are speaking of the record of testimony show- ing these various things. I would like for you to identify a little more specifically the record to which you refer.
Mr. BREWER. This record is a record which was made before the California Committee on Un-American Activities. It was made in the latter part of 1944 or 1945, and certified copies of this record are available and can be had by this committee, I am sure. This record was made pursuant to an investigation they made, and the testimony was given by an individual named Charles Bakcsy, B-a-k-c-s-y. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And you have the record of that testimony before you? 
Mr. BREWER. Yes.  479 
Mr. TAVENNER. And you are giving a synopsis of that testimony
Mr. BREWER. Yes. I have a complete copy of his testimony before me as it was given before that committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU were speaking of an individual by the name of Kibre. 
Mr. BREWER. Yes. One of the individuals who received informa- tion and funds was Jeff Kibre. Jeff Kibre has quite a history in Hollywood, and he has a subsequent history also. He appeared in 1937 as a member of one of our unions, and eventually became the leader of a group called the IA Progressives.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the name of that 
Mr. BREWER. IA Progressives. IA is an abbreviation of IATSE. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You had better give the entire abbreviation.
Mr. BREWER. He came into prominence first as leader of the IATSE Progressives, which was a group within the IATSE trying to influence the leadership of that organization, and in due course this group did capture the control of this organization, which was at that time known as local No. 37 of the IATSE, and which embraced approximately 9,000 of the back-lot workers on the Hollywood studio lots. There were charges and countercharges at that time.
Mr. POTTER. What time was that?
Mr. BREWER. This was 1937. One of the actions which took place was a result of the difficulties which the international union was having with this local union as a result of the IA Progressives. The international came in and revoked the charter of that local and set up the craft local union. They seemed to feel that this local union was too large, and maybe that was the reason for the trouble. As a result of that. Mr. Kibre then came out in the open and tried to form another organization. We have a very important history of reports which Mr. Kibre wrote. In these reports he outlined the plan, and as a result of these reports we find that Mr. Kibre was acting in a dual capacity. In addition to being an agent of the Communist Party he was also posing as a field representative of the CIO. Now, the CIO at that time in California was completely controlled by Communist groups. The main part of their organization in the northern part of the State was the Longshoremen's Union, under Mr. Bridges; and in Los Angeles the leader of the CIO was Mr. Philip Connelly. I think I.need not identify Mr. Bridges and his record, but Mr. Philip Connelly is now editor of the People's World, the west-coast Communist publication, so I think there can be no question of a doubt but what the CIO was virtually synonymous with the Communist Party on the Pacific coast at that particular period.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was when?
Mr. BREWER. In 1937 and 1938.
Mr. Kibre, in writing his reports-which have come into our posses- sion and which are more or less common knowledge in Hollywood since 1939, but which probably were not appraised in their full significance-Mr. Kibre outlines quite clearly what his plan was and what many of his motives were, and I can briefly sketch from these reports a few of the pertinent points.
Mr. DOYLE. Will the witness identify the reports? 480 
Mr. BREWER. These are reports written by Mr. Kibre in the latter part of 1937 and in 1938, and some of them are to CIO headquarters, and some of them are to Communist Party functionaries. The first one which I have here, which is quite significant, was written to Mr. Louis Goldblatt. Mr. Louis Goldblatt at that time, I believe, was secretary of the State branch of the CIO. In any event, he is a close associate of Mr. Bridges and served for some time as secretary of the Longshoremen's Union on the Pacific coast. Here are some of the pertinent points Mr. Kibre wrote Mr. Gold,blatt in November 1938: 1. IMPORTANCE OF HOLLYWOOD. The political campaign has clearly demonstrated the strategical importance of Hollywood. Hardly anyone will question the fact that Hollywood was a dominant factor in the campaign. Olsen, for example, credits the Motion-Picture Democratic Committee with being the most potent force in the entire campaign. Obviously, the potency of Hollywood as a public force need not be confined to the political field. It can be just as effective on the trade-union front. Developments in Hollywood can have decisive influence on the trade-union situation in California-and nationally. And, further, a wellorganized and ably functioning union in Hollywood can easily become a national example. Thus, Hollywood deserves careful consideration in any estimate of general perspective with regard to the pushing of industrial unionism. In the report he proceeds to outline the program by which he hopes to take over the labor movement in Hollywood. There are two things that are predominant in all these reports. One of them is that the enemies of the Communist Party were the IATSE and the Screen Actors' Guild; and in almost every report which he writes-and I will leave copies of these full reports with the committee-he is trying to maneuver it so as to smash the IATSE and the Screen Actors' Guild. (Representative Harold H. Velde left hearing room.)
Mr. BREWER (continuing). There are other significant matters in these reports. One is that they have organized various of these guilds and that their agents are in control of all the activities taking place; that is, all the dissension, all the disruption, all the public activity is the work of their agents. Here is a very pertinent paragraph-and I am trying to pick out the most important ones to save the time of the committee: Our work has been entirely through the existing organizations. Experience has proven this the only realistic method of crystallizing sentiment for industrial unionism. The attempts of a "Red" Larkin (Who has apparently been in communication with the national office of the CIO) to horn in on the organization of an industrial union demonstrates the utter fultility of working from the outside. Larkin's mass base consists of a few dozen ragtail elements who have dropped out of the existing unions. His connection to the present situation was evidenced 2 weeks ago when he feverishly wired Mr. Lewis with the statement he could swing the industry CIO if given a charter. Larkin had reference to a meeting called by the Screen Writers' Guild of other unions and guilds with respect to jurisdictional claims of the IA. Since this meeting had been inspired by our contacts, promoted by us- and here is a phrase which has shocked some of the members of the Screen Writers' Guild: discussed an agenda prepared by me- now that that was the Screen Writers' Guild calling the meeting, and yet he says the agenda was prepared by him-  481 it is highly possible Mr. Larkin did not know whereof he was barking. As a matter of fact, Mr. Larkin, with a dozen charters in hand, would not even have gained admittance to the meeting-as contrasted to the fact our contacts are the active agents of practically every event occurring at the present time. Now, what Mr. Kibre outlined that he was trying to do was to form into a coalition the crafts and guilds in Hollywood and thereby establish a demand for an industrial basis, and to transfer the loyalty of these men from their national and international unions, which were American Federation of Labor unions and which were anti-Communist, to this group in Hollywood, so that they could eventually throw them into an industrial union and put them in the CIO. He proceeded in that direction, and he got a break in the form of a decision from the National Labor Relations Board. This is signifi- cant too, because there was quite a lot of activity on the part of representatives of the National Labor Relations Board in this group. Anyway, Mr. Kibre got a decision from the National Labor Relations Board which caused him to think the time was then right-this was early 1939-to press for an election to try to capture the unions in one swoop through an election. He got the decision. An election was called. And it was just prior to the election that these reports were found and made public, and it is partly because of these reports and partly through the basic loyalty of members of the American Federation of Labor that he was defeated by approximately 2 to 1. This was 1939. Then, as you know, the Browne-Bioff scandal broke in Hollywood. They were members of our union, and charges of racketeering had been thrown around, and eventually it was established that Browne and Bioff were racketeers, and they were deposed. In the wake of that scandal there appeared a vacuum, and men who had been trying to beat off the Communist movement were almost helpless. It was difficult to determine as to which of these individuals were honestly opposing the dishonest element and which were Communists. So, it proved to be a boon to the Communists in discrediting all the talk that had been built up about Communist infiltration. In the course of it the Conference of Studio Unions appeared. In 1941 the Conference of Studio Unions was formed, and Mr. Herbert K. Sorrell was elected president of that organization. A very significant fact then began to emerge.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I interrupt just a moment? You were telling us a few moments ago about Mr. Kibre and his record. I believe you have not completed that?
Mr. BREWER. No; I have not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you propose to return to him a little later in your testimony?
Mr. BREWER. I will now. At this point Kibre went out of the picture. I will go back and give you some of the information we have. The report I read from before was a report made to the CIO. A little before that Mr. Kibre also made a report to a Communist official in New York City. He wrote a letter to Mr. Bob Reed. Mr. Bob Reed has been identified as one of the leaders of the Communist group in Actors' Equity in New York. He was referred to by Mr..Budenz in his book on page 220, and has been known around New York. 482  The letter is dated February 9. The year is not stated, but the year has been established as 1938. He starts out: BoB REED, 136 West Thirteenth Street, New York City. MY DEAR BOB: Well, one thing about Reds-they seldom write except on business. And he goes on to describe the program in Hollywood which I have outlined. A very significant point appears in this letter, and that is, he attempts to stimulate some interest on the part of the national officers of the Communist Party toward setting up a national faction in the IATSE. He points out that, in their effort to capture Holly- wood, the threat of a strike if they attempt to grab control in Hollywood is a very serious thing. At that time the theaters throughout the Nation were owned by the same companies that owned the studios, so the almost complete control which our union had in the theaters throughout the Nation was a very potent threat to the efforts of the Communists to get control of Hollywood. So he was trying to get a national faction so that if a strike occurred in Hollywood they could neutralize this action by having key local unions throughout the United States that would protect their people. He mentions in this letter that Bob Reed should see Jack Stachel. He says: In the meantime, I wish you would discuss matter if IA action with Jack Stachel, necessity of my getting in touch With contacts in the various cities, and so forth. I've taken it up with Paul Kline- Paul Kline was a State official of the Communist Party in Hollywoodbut he feels personal appeal by you or V. J., rather than communication through official channels, would get quicker results. At that point V. J. had not been identified when this letter was made public, but since that time it has been established without doubt that V. J. meant V. J. Jerome. I have a photostatic copy of this letter with me, with the signature of Kibre on it, signed "Jeff." It is only signed in his first name, but we have it as he typed it. He typed it, apparently, on his own type- writer, because there are places crossed out. He closed this letter by saying, "Comradely, Jeff." Another pertinent report in these reports involving Mr. Kibre was a report regarding an individual that appeared during the 1945 strike in Hollywood by the name of Irving Henschel. (Representative Harold H..Velde returned.) 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. BRu~wiR. H-e-n-s-c-h-e-l. Irving Henschel was leader of the Communist faction in 1944 and was a member of the Rank and File Committee which attempted to set up a revolt in our organization during the 1945 strike in Hollywood. It appears that Mr. Henschel went to the 1938 convention of our International Alliance in Cleveland, and he went there as an appointed delegate, and one of the things he had to do was to present a resolution in an effort to present the views of the so-called IA Progressives in Hollywood.  INDUSTRY 483 He had a very difficult time there, because the sentiment was not very friendly. In the course of his activities he contacted a Communist Party official in Ohio by the name of Max Weiss, and apparently Max Weiss was not impressed by the manner in which Henschel handled himself, so he wrote a long report to Roy Hudson in New York. 
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that the same Roy Hudson who has been referred to frequently before this committee as a party functionary in western Pennsylvania, do you know?
Mr. BREWER. Undoubtedly this is the same Roy Hudson. This communication is addressed to Comrade Lambert.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know Lambert's first name?
Mr. BREWER. Walter Lambert. And it is signed, "Comradely yours, Roy Hudson." In Mr. Weiss' report he makes criticisms of the way Henschel conducted himself.
Mr. WALTER. How do you know Henschel was a Communist ?
Mr. BREWER. We have a report a little later on that identifies him as a Communist; In the first place, the report of Mr. Weiss itself identifies him as Communist Party member, and points out that perhaps he is not too reliable a member of the organization and should be investigated. What Mr. Hudson asked Mr. Lambert to do was read Mr. Max Weiss' report and then investigate the situation in California to see if the complaints were justified. This communication apparently was turned over to Mr. Kibre by
Mr. Lambert, and Mr. Kibre then wrote a report, presumably to Lambert again, and here is the language of this report:
Mr. VELDE. Will you identify Mr. Lambert ?
Mr. BREWER. He was State trade-union secretary of the Communist Party of California at that time.
Mr. VELDE. Where were his headquarters ?
Mr. BREWER. San Francisco.
Mr. VELDE. Was that Rudy Lambert?
Mr. BREWER. Walter Lambert.
Mr. WALTER. How does Weiss spell his name ?
Mr. BREWER. W-e-i-s-s. There is evidence that Weiss was at that time a Communist Party functionary in Ohio. Here is what Mr. Kibre writes in his investigation of Mr. Henschel. After the preliminaries he says: The following conclusions were reached: 1. That the differences of opinion with respect to the resolution, approach to the IA, and so forth, grows out of a thorough lack of understanding by the comrades in the East of the role of the IATSE in the motion-picture industry, the problems of the industry, and, consequently, of our basic line. This lack of understanding is also apparently wedded to a gross underestimation of the motion-picture industry as the foundation of the amusement industry. 2. That we affirm our confidence in comrade Irv Henschel, who is a party member of 3 years' standing in the industry; and further states that Comrade Henschel, despite numerous mistakes, attempted to the best of his ability to carry out the instructions of the local party organization; and, finally, that most of his mistakes were the product of the tremendous pressure and intimidation exerted upon him by the IA officials, plus the lack of proper party guidance and counsel in Cleveland. And then he winds up by attacking the findings of Weiss and emphasizing that the real problem is the lack of a national faction in the 484 INDUSTRY IATSE; and he refers in this to his communication to Bob Reed, indirectly. I will read this one paragraph: As far as communication, etc. As far back as last fall we suggested the necessity of a national faction. Subsequently, I wrote to various contacts in New York, but received no answer. In February- and that was the date of the Bob Reed letterI sent a more urgent plea, through the secretary of the actors' faction in New York, to Comrade Stachel. No answer was forthcoming. In addition, I urged Comrade Bob Kaye to secure IA contacts and put them in touch with me. There were no results. Certainly we welcome a national faction. 
Mr. KEARNEY. May I interrupt, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. WOOD. Yes.
Mr. KEARNEY. IS that Comrade Stachel you refer to one of the attorneys that represented the 11 Communists in New York a few months ago?
Mr. BREWER. I don't think he is an attorney. I think he has been identified as a national functionary of the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. He was one of the defendants.
Mr. BREWER. One of the defendants; yes. So, with the publication of these reports, the election was won by the A. F. of L. unions and Mr. Kibre then faded out of the Hollywood picture. He reappeared in connection with the Englewood strike in 1940, when troops were serit to break the strike at the North American Aviation plant which President Roosevelt charged was a politically inspired strike. He is at present an official of the CIO fishermen's union on the Pacific coast, and he was indicted about 3 years ago, along with others, for violation of antitrust laws in connection with the fixing of prices of fish on the west coast. In the transcript which I have here and which I will leave with the committee, there is further evidence of Kibre's membership in the party. There is an affidavit in the record of the committee signed by Ezra Chase; who testified he knew Jeff Kibre as a Communist. There is also testimony given by Lew Blix, business agent of the union at that time, that he had seen the Communist Party card of Jeff Kibre and that he was registered as Barry Wood. And also in the record is a copy of minutes of a particular Communist Party meeting in which the name Barry Wood appears as one of the participants.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the full name of Blix ?
Mr. BREWER. Lew Blix, L-e-w B-l-i-x. He was business agent of local 37 in Hollywood for many, many years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before you leave Mr. Kibre, did he attempt to organize an organization or group known as the Unemployment Conference?
Mr. BREWER. Yes; he did. The first effort which he made at this so-called unity of the groups in Hollywood was through the form of an unemployment conference. At that time there was a great deal of unemployment in the motion-picture industry, and there were a great many men out of work, and he outlines in detail in this report how he intended to exploit this unemployment, as well as the jurisdictional problems, in order to create dissatisfaction among the union members with their local unions, and thereby stimulate interest for the industrial type of organization, which would be the CIO.  485 There is evidence also that in the election proceedings of 1938 funds were supplied by the State CIO for that purpose, although openly they did not campaign as a CIO affiliate. There are references in this report that, if you would delete the word "unemployment," it would read almost like what was happen- ing in 1945 and 1946 under the title "Conference of Studio Unions." Here is one paragraph in an early report: Organizations remaining in the conference included: Studio painters; machinists cinema lodge; plasterers and modelers; utility employees; screen directors' guild; studio carpenters; studio electricians (IBEW) ; screen writers' guild; screen set designers; screen cartoonists' guild; screen publishers' guild; musicians and IA progressives. Excluding the latter group, over 10,000 studio workers were officially represented. Of course the studio painters was the center of the conference of studio unions in later years. The screen set designers was a part of it. The carpenters' union was part of it. So that they had the same group. Some had broken away from them, but the pattern Kibre outlined in, his early reports was exactly the pattern followed in the organization of the conference of studio unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you return to the conference of studio unions ?
Mr. BREWER. Out of this chaos that was left in the wake of the conviction of Browne and Bioff came the organization of the Conference of Studio Unions, of which Herbert K. Sorrell. was president. In 1940 one of the important unions in our international had had a change of officers. That was the laboratory technicians. At that time there were elected as its officers three individuals who later appeared very prominently in the activities that took place. The principal individual was Norvel Crutcher.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell it.
Mr. BREWER. N-o-r-v-e-l C-r-u-t-c-h-e-r. Another individual was Russell McKnight, president; and John Martin was business agent. Although all indications were that the Conference of Studio Unions was being organized as an organization to compete with the IATSE, this local union was one of the principal groups that helped organize the Conference. The first secretary of the Conference of Studio Unions was Mr. McKnight, who was president of this local union. The organizational activities of the Conference of Studio Unions in the early period took place in the offices of local 683. I have in my possession, although I do not have them with me, a complete set of minutes of the Conference of Studio Unions from the day it was formed until August 1944, when local 683 withdrew. During this period the Conference of Studio Unions began to pick up the same program that had been carried on in the early stages against IATSE. They raised the cry they wanted autonomy, and they generally took a position that was contrary to the position of the American Federation of Labor on matters which involved any pro-Communist activities. In other words, they supported the position of the American Federation of Labor so far as it did not conflict with the Communist Party line, but whenever there was conflict, they were invariably on the side of the Communist Party. They passed resolutions to support Mr. Bridges and the CIO at a time the American Federation of Labor was fighting them. All these activities can be traced in this set of minutes. I 486 Another individual who appeared on the scene was an individual named Pomerance.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it?
Mr. BREWER. P-o-m-e-r-a-n-c-e, William. He had been the field examiner for the National Labor Relations Board at the time the- election proceeding was held which determined the issue of representation in 1939, and I understand he had been discharged-no, I am sorry; I am not sure he was discharged. In any event, he left the National Labor Relations Board as an examiner and became employed,. 'at the behest of Mr. Sorrell, I am sold, as secretary of the Screen Cartoonists' Guild about the time of the Disney strike. You will find in Walt Disney's testimony in 1947 that Mr. Sorrell placed Mr. Pomerance in charge of the Screen Cartoonists' Guild and later Pomerance went as secretary of the Screen Writers' Guild and remained there during much of the period about which this committee has heard. He left in 1946 when an issue arose as to the strike. His successor in the Screen Cartoonists' Guild was an individual by the name of Maurice Howard.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell it.
Mr. BREWER. M-a-u-r-i-c-e H-o-w-a-r-d. Both the Screen Cartoon- ists' Guild and the Screen Writers' Guild were close adherents to the Communist Party line, as it developed in subsequent periods. A third individual appeared on the scene who came from the War Labor Board. His name is Milton Gotlieb. He came out of nowhere and became secretary of the Screen Publicists' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell that name, please.
Mr. BREWER. G-o-t-l-i-e-b, I believe, Milton Gotlieb. So we had three men within a relatively short period of time who moved from the Government into these fields, and each became part and parcel of this pro-Communist element that was attempting to create discord among A. F. of L. unions.
Mr. VELDE. You said Mr. Gotlieb came out of nowhere. 
Mr. BREWER. So far as the studios were concerned, he was not a. man who had any background for the job which he was picked for. He had been a representative of the War Labor Board in San Francisco and appeared suddenly as an important officer. In ordinary union procedure, a man is elected to that type of an office after he works his way up in the union. Mr. Gotlieb was brought in from the outside, so to speak, and his background was with the War Labor Board.
Mr. KEARNEY. These men all had formerly held Government em- ployment?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. At the same time, the Conference of Studio Unions began to move to bring all of these groups under the painters' union. Of course, to a labor man it was a rather ridiculous thing that a group of screen publicists should be brought in as a part of the painters' union. But
Mr. Sorrell was a painter, and they got a charter and became painters. They then proceeded to organize the secretaries, and I am sure that you will find that the testimony given by Mr. Hayden with reference to Bea Winters would show that connection. The secretaries also became members of the painters' union.
Mr. KEARNEY. They were painters, too?
Mr. BREWER. They were painters.  487 There were about 3,000 to 4,000 members of what we call the office workers' union, and they were organized in the Screen Office Employees' Guild, an affiliate of the painters. Since then they have changed and are in the A. F. of L. Office -Employees' International Union of North America-I think that is the official title today-but .at that time they were organized in the Screen Office Employees' Guild, and one of the organizers was Bernard Lusher.
Mr. TAVENNER. Spell it.
Mr. BREWER. L-u-s-h-e-r, Bernard Lusher. 
Mr. Hayden testified that the secretary of the cell which he was in-he identified two people, one by the name of Hjalmar and one by the name of Bernie, who represented the office workers. Bernard Lusher was a very active individual in all the programs that had to do with the Communist Party line, and as soon as the Screen Office Employees' Guild became a part of the International Office Employees' Union, Mr. Lusher disappeared and is now an organizer for the United Office and Professional Workers' Union recently expelled by the CIO for Communist domination. He recently figured in a case in California where a Jewish organization refused to bargain with his group because of Communist domination, and the court ruled they did not have to deal with them. They began to have a very powerful organization, and all the time they were using it as a sounding board to damn IATSE. IATSE- had gone through a very serious period because of the Browne-Bioff scandal, and it is generally recognized by those who know that a very fine job was done in cleaning it up, but, of course, these groups did not let the matter rest. Every place we turned it was thrown into our face that this was still a part of that racketeer union, and they built up a great deal .of prejudice,. not only within the Hollywood community, but within our own unions themselves, and there began to appear dissident factions. In local 44 it Henschel. In August 1944, without any apparent reason, from the Conference of Studio Unions. It was us why that happened. There didn't seem to be was led by Irving local 683 resigned a little strange to any logical reason for it. But in October of 1944 the first jurisdictional strike was called against the.,studiT)s. 
Mr. WALTER. Who were the officers of that local at the time it withdrew ? 
Mr. BREWSTER. The same officers, Norvel Cruther, Russell Mc- Knight, and John Martin. Up to that time the Conference of Studio Unions had taken the position they would not interfere with local unions, but after local 683 withdrew, they called a jurisdictional strike to force the studios to recognize the painters' union as bargaining agent for set decorators. Set decorators have charge of the property. If they were going to photograph this room, it would be the responsibility of the set decorators to see that all objects in the room were set properly. They had been members of our union for many.years, but Mr. Sorrell was demanding to represent them. The National Labor Relations Board asked them to go back to work and they immediately went back to work. and the matter began to boil from then on, and on March 12, 1945, the day I arrived in Hollywood, 488 INDUSTRY the second strike began, and that was the one that was of prolonged duration, and the one which finally resulted in the A. F. of L. directive which had so much publicity. If I might go back and point out in connection with CSU there was one very significant fact that took place about this time. I believe it was early 1944-the date can be fixed by the minutes which I will supply you-a resolution was passed by CSU in connection with the filming of the life of Eddie Rickenbacker. At that time Eddie Rickenbacker had made rather derogatory re- ,marks about labor, and there was a great deal of criticism of him by labor. This resolution was passed by the CSU which said they would not work on the production of Captain Eddie. Just about then Rickenbacker went to Russia, and when he came back he made glowing statements about the Russian Army, and as a result the resolution was not effective. But that resolution had significance to me because I could see what it would have meant. This brings us up to the strike of 1945. The other wing of this program, laid out in Carmel, was being carried out by John Howard Lawson and his associates.
Mr. PorTER. What do you mean by "other wing"?
Mr. BREWER. It was my analysis of the program that this'Commu- nist infiltration program was divided into two parts. One was the field which Mr. Kibre developed and which was taken over by Mr. Sorrell; and the other was developed by Mr. Lawson and his associates. During this period, Mr. Lawson's unit had developed beyond their fondest expectations. In 1945 the atmosphere was almost perfect from their standpoint. At that time the Communist group in the Screen Actors' Guild and the fronts which they controlled completely dominated the intellectual thought of the community. Anybody who dared to express himself openly as opposed to communism found himself ostracized socially and otherwise.
Mr. VELDE. Will you give some examples of that ostracism?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. When I got to Hollywood I became a member of the Motion Picture Alliance. The Motion Picture Alliance was the only group of creative artists in Hollywood which had tried to oppose this Communist infiltration. That group was headed by an individual called James K. McGuinness. Mr. McGuinness, when he took over that job, was a very important individual in the motionpicture industry. He was the head of the production department at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Mr. McGuinness, when I went there, had been branded as an anti-Semite. He had been branded as a reactionary. He had been branded as a Roosevelt-hater. And he was generally considered to be an individual that no one with any sort of liberal tendency should associate with. As a labor representative I was asked many, many times how I could sit in the same room with groups like this. It was the Motion Picture Alliance which eventually assisted in the hearings of 1947.
Mr. VELDE. You mean the hearings before this committee?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. And I can tell you one individual who at that point had had about 30 credits as a screen writer, and who has practically worked none at all since that time--Mr. Fred Niblo, Jr. Fred Niblo, Jr. comes from one of the old families. His father, Fred Niblo, Sr., was one of the producers of all time in the motion picture COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTRE INDUSTRY 489 industry, and Fred Niblo, Jr. has had practically no work since that time.
Mr. VELDE. Can you trace that to the fact he was a member of the Motion Picture Alliance in any detailed way ?
Mr. BREWER. Well, at this time, as I say, the atmosphere against anyone who fought communism was very bitter. I was denounced. I was accused of being anti-Semitic too. My work is not in the field of the creative artists, but I have seen Mr. Niblo's credits, and he had a substantial record, and it fell completely and he is now working at Lockheed. Another individual who testified before the committee in 1947 is Jack Moffitt who also has had no work.
Mr. KEARNEY. Following out the line of questions by Mr. Velde, in view of the attitude we have been led to believe of the motion picture industry today, why is it that Fred Niblo can't get back to work in the motion picture industry ? 
Mr. BREWER. I can't answer authoritatively for that. It is hard for me to describe the situation that existed in Hollywood at that time. I lived through it.
Mr. KEARNEY. I am referring to today. Why can't he get back today? Hasn't the attitude among the motion-picture producers changed since those days?
Mr. BREWER. I think it has. Of course there is, this fact that has to be taken into consideration, that there is a reduced amount of employment today as against what it was. The industry is being very selective. There are serious economic problems. My attitude is that now that this thing has been pointed up he will get work. But I think the influence of this group that existed in 1945, and their character assassination program-which I assure you was so effective that it is beyond my power to describe it-I think they were able to so discredit Mr. Niblo that they decided there was somebody better than he was.
Mr. KEARNEY. I apologize to counsel for interrupting, but I would like to ask this question: Do you have any knowledge as to whether any of the 10 Hollywood convicted writers are now selling their wares to the motion picture industry through a second or third party ? 
Mr. BREWER. Well, I have some information which would indicate that that was the case, but I can't prove that that is the case.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other words, you have a great suspicion that that is the case?
Mr. BREWER. Yes, I have information that that is the case.
Mr. KEARNEY. But you have no proof?
Mr. BREWER. That is right. 
Mr. POTTER. Are there any records that would bear out your testi- mony about this character assassination ? ! Mr. BREWER. I do not think the opinion of one man is of much value, but I think if you could document the employment records of those individuals that were not acceptable to the Communist group as against those individuals who were in the forefront of it, I think you would find a rather substantial indication that there were influences at work. !1Those influences work in many, many ways. Lots of times the opinion of asecretary or of a clerk in a casting bureau can make the difference between whether one man is hired or another man is hired. 490 INDUSTRY I can see, from my standpoint, knowing the set-up in Hollywood, how easy it would be for an underground movement to use influence in such a way that an individual without such protection would be at a disadvantage, and I am of the definite opinion that was the case. I think it can be proven by records. I haven't attempted to do that, but in my judgment it could be done.
Mr. KEARNEY. If that condition I spoke of does exist, it shows that the motion-picture industry is not checking too carefully?
Mr. BREWER. I want to say that is not true today. The fellow who ,has any taint of communism on him today is having a tough time.
Mr. KEIARN Y. Unless he sells his stories or writings through a second or third party ?
Mr. BREWER. That is true.
Mr. KEARNEY. Then it is up to the industry to check?
Mr. BREWER. I don't think that is prevalent, but I think there have been some instances of it. One was testified to before this committee, the picture Chain Lightning.
Mr. DOYLE. I noticed you made the statement, I wrote it down: "At this point they and their front organizations were in complete control." At what point was that? 
Mr. BREWER. That started about 1944 and continued until after the 1947 hearings.
Mr. DOYLE -Where-you said "they -and their front organizations," I don't want to take the time now', perhaps counsel will develop it, but in what way were the front organizations related? 
Mr. TAVNNER. We will go into that subject pretty fully later.
Mr. DOYLE. Then I won't go into it now. I realize it is very im- portant, because the witness has referred several times to their front organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. That will be the subject of an entirely different phase of his testimony.
Mr. DOYLE. That was in 1944?
Mr. BREWER. 1944 to 1947.
Mr. WOOD. In this connection, Mr. Counsel, I would like to make the statement that I have gone to some considerable pains personally to adivse myself as to the attitude of responsible producers in the motion-picture industry, and I know at this time they are spending literally thousands and thousands of dollars undertaking to screen the backgrounds of all persons now employed in essential positions in the industry, and are exercising a great deal of diligence in that respect. I think it is only fair that that be placed in the record at this time.
Mr. KEARNEY. I take it, the chairman includes screen writers also 
Mr. WOOD. They are employees. That goes to all employees in the industry.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Chairman, I didn't intend to convey the impression by my questions that the motion-picture industry was not cooperating fully in the hearings being conducted at the present time or in the ousting of Communist Party members from the motion-picture industry. I didn't mean to intimate that.
Mr. BREWER. I would like to say also that, as I testified earlier, the community did not believe this charge of Communist infiltration until after the 1947 hearings, and it was after the 1947 hearings they really  INDUSTRY 491 *beganto try to find out, and for the most part Where they have known it and it was a. certainty to:them, they have cleaned them out. SThe difficulty has been-and I think this is not only a problem for .Hollywood, I think it is'a problem for America--the difficulty has been to understand-the nature of this problem. Many of the officials did not understand it. They did not realize what it consisted of, and would not have tolerated it had they known it. The fact that the Communists were able to so cleverly disguise their real aims- points. up the danger of the Communist movement not only in Hollywood but throughout the country.
Mr. KEARNEY. You think the country is waking up? 
Mr. BREWER. I think they are, but I think they have a great deal to learn, and I think the disclosures before this committee will help point up the real danger of it, because we can swing so far we will lay the groundwork for another invasion.
Mr. KEARNEY. I hope the country is waking up. 
Mr. POTTER. Concerning this character assassination, I know it has been suggested by some of the professional people in Hollywood that they now are paying the penalty for anti-Communist attitudes they had in this critical period.
Mr. BPREWR. I think the character assassination program they had, and the domination which they had over the life of the community, that is, the social and intellectual thought in the community, was very effective. Sometimes it would be a minor clerk in a casting office, or a secretary, who would indicate that so-and-so probably wouldn't be any good for that part; or maybe it would be one of the stories they would circulate that had no foundation, that so-and-so was a lousy writer. They had the machinery by which they could create the impression that so-and-so was not a good writer or that he had done something 'wrong and therefore would not be good for a part. They had that organization, and it was effective beyond the widest scope of your imagination.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU spoke of the possibility of people in a clerical position or otherwise influencing the employment of persons if they were members of the Communist Party, and as I understood it, you said it was your opinion that practice had been resorted to. Do you have any information or any 'knowledge of any instances in which a secretary or other employee who was a Communist influenced the ;employment of a Communist or' the failure to employ a nonCommunist? -'
Mr. BREWER. No, I don't. I was not really close enough to that to know. I had my hands full with my own problems. secondary line, and I didn't develop that. That was a I know the Screen Office Employees' Guild had a large segment that responded to the Communist cause, so it would seem to me only the natural thing if that happened.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would'like for you to state the full name of the Motion Picture Alliance. 
Mr. BREWER. Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals. 
Mr. POTTER. Who is the president of that ? 
Mr. BREWER. John Wayne is chairman'and I am chairman of the executiverboard. 81595--51-pt. 2---13 492 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you had gotten into a discussion of the operation of the Conference of Studio Unions. The chairman has indicated that we will not be in session more than about 10 or 15 minutes more. Let me suggest that you stop at a logical break in your testimony. I am not certain whether now is the time.
Mr. BRWERm. I think I could catch up with the fact that during the history which I have described in some sort of a chronological form in the unions, at the same time this other field was being developed by John Howard Lawson, and a great number of fronts appeared, and that element in the community became a very powerful influence, not only in the motion-picture industry but in the Los Angeles community and in the State of California also.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would prefer that we make the subject of the fronts and of the political influence of which you speak the subject of your testimony later, because I think it is too big to get into in 10 or 15 minutes.
Mr. BREWER. Then I can describe my analysis of what I think the next step would have been had they been successful in getting control of the unions, because I think that was a very key factor. From my analysis of what went on it is my firm conviction that had they been successful in eliminating the A. F. of L. unions, including IATSE, from the Hollywood scene, that they then would have merged all these unions into one big union and used that as an instrument to combat the Motion Picture Alliance.. From my analysis it seems to me clear that had they succeeded they would have been able to effectively dominate the content of pictures, because they had been successful in influencing the minds of quite a few of the artists. Mr. Dmytryk and Mr. Collins testified to that. But they were restrained because the producers were ready to stop them.
Mr. WALTER. Weren't they at the point that had the producers been willing, they could have proceeded to influence the content of the pictures?
Mr. BREWER. The unions would have given them the power so that a producer who had resisted could have been branded as antilabor, and it would have been a relatively easy step to have used the unions as a whip by which they almost could have forced the producers to put into the films the material that they wanted, and it is my considered opinion that that was the real intent. I don't think even the leaders in Hollywood realized it, that is, the secondary leaders, but I am confident that was their real aim. When the Motion Picture Alliance was formed it was only a small group, and their power never did offset the power of the group I have mentioned, but they branded the MPA all over the world.
Mr. McGuinness has mentioned that we got communications from all over the world branding MPA as a vicious Fascist organization and using all the vituperation of which the Communists are capable to destroy it. Just before Mr. McGuiness died I was talking to him and he said, "When our organization was formed such a cry went up that I went to some of my friends and I said to them, 'What have we stepped on ? We are not worthy of all this opposition'." Mr. McGuiness said, "Until you made this statement tonight I never fully understood why they were so afraid of MPA."  493 If you go back to Mr. Kibre's reports you will find, running through those reports, a statement which indicated the difficulty with which they were being able to bring the guilds into an organization with the unions, and how difficult it was to bring them around. It is my judgment that in 1945 they had reached the conclusion that the time was ripe to do that, and that the purpose of the 1945 -strike, which developed a little earlier than they had anticipated, the real purpose was to knock out the A. F. of L. control, and that at the same time the IATSE was right to bring about this merger and overall control. Then they would have had this one organization and Mr. Lawson and his associates could have been dictating to the motion picture industry. It would have been very effective, I am sure.
Mr. WOOD. I think this is a good place to stop.
Mr. JACKSON. Before we stop, usually the connotation that attaches to names mentioned here is unfavorable. Of your own knowledge, who are a few of the people who have been instrumental in battling -this Communist situation ?
Mr. BREWER. Well, the leader, I think, of the group in the creative field undisputedly was Mr. McGuinness. And John Wayne, the new chairman, is carrying on. Clark Gable has been a member of our organization since its Inception. Clarence Brown, a producer at MetroGoldwyn-Mayer. Mr. John Klorer, the writer. Morrie Ryskind. There are many others. Then in the trade-union field, our union; and Ralph Clare of the teamsters union, and before him Joe Toughey; and
Mr. Lew Helm and Ben Martinez of the plasterers union have been militantly loyal. There are others who have fought, and there are other star names.
Mr. WALTER. Sidney Blackmer.
Mr. BREWER. Robert Taylor and Charles Coburn.
Mr. KEARNEY. Adolph Menjou.
Mr. BREWER. Ward Bond. Cliff Lyons, the stunt man. There are a number.
Mr. JACKSON. Would it be proper if the witness could prepare and leave with the committee a list of those people who have been leading -the fight against communism in the motion-picture industry?
Mr. WOOD. The committee would be very glad to have such a list. The committee will stand adjourned until tomorrow morning at 10:30. (Thereupon, at 4 p. m. on Thursday, May 17, 1951, an adjournment -was taken until Friday, May 18, 1951, at 10:30 a. m.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 2 FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMI~tEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTrVITES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to adjournment, at 10:30 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder (appearing as noted in transcript), Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, investigator; and John W. Carrington, clerk.
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order. Let the record show that the following members of the committee are present: Mr. Walter,
Mr. Velde, Mr. Kearney, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Potter, and Mr. Wood, a quorum of the committee. Do you wish to proceed further with the witness you had yesterday ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I would like to recall Mr. Brewer. TESTIMONY OF ROY M. BREWER-Resumed
Mr. BREWER. In theConference of Studio Unions?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. BREWER. Yes; I can.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think in answering that question that you should make it clear whether or not the persons that you name are members of the Communist Party, if you know. I do not think you should leave it in the position of naming persons connected with that organization who were not members of the Communist Party if you know they were not.
Mr. BREWER. Well, of course, in that case I will try to point out to you the people who participated who had Communist records, but not being on the inner circles of the Communist movement, I am not in a position to testify "yes" or "no" to many of these people. I will 495 496 INDUSTRY try to point out to the committee those persons whose records have been firmly established, and then I would like to also point out to the committee the names of those persons who carried the program within the conference which coincided with the Communist program, so that they can be checked, because I think that is important also.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Brewer, I request that you try to talk sufficiently loud so that we can hear you up here. And I have an announcement to make. I am told we are honored this morning to have in the committee room some 10 or more members of the German Parliament. I am glad to extend to them a welcome here. Proceed.
Mr. BREWER. First of all, I think it is very important to recognize that in this conflict in Hollywood, as is almost always the case in a conflict in which the Communists are involved, you never get a chance to fight it out on a pure Communist and anti-Communist issue. If you did, it would be relatively simple. The real danger of Commu- nists is that they come in and exploit a disagreement, as they are doing throughout the Nation and throughout the world, and create a situation which causes a violent conflict; and while they may not be the ones who fight all of the war, they are certainly the ones who direct it and who benefit from the victory. In this case we had two separate and distinct forces at work in the Conference of Studio Unions. The inain group was the pro-Communist group, which was under the leadership of Herbert K. Sorrell. SThe question of Mr. Sorrells arrangements with the Communist Party has been one that has been under dispute for a long time, and it is a matter of which I made a very thorough study, because in my position I had to know whether Mr. Sorrell was loyal to the principles of the American Federation of Labor, which he purported to be, or whether he was an agent of the Communist Party. So far as the conclusions are concerned, they are positive in the fact that he was, or at least had been, a member of the Communist Party, and that he was working in close collaboration with them, and that every time the issue came down, for the most part he took the Communist Party position. That doesn't mean that there weren't some conflicts as this thing progressed, because there were. We made a very thorough study of them so that we knew exactly where they were. Mr. Sorrell, according; to the evidence that has been presented-and there is a very complete documentation that was presented before the House Committee on Education and Labor in connection with the investigation of this strike. There was presented in evidence at that hearing a Communist Party receipt book which was identified as a Communist Party receipt book. There was also introduced in evidence at this hearing a control card which was identified as a Communist Party record.
Mr. VELDE. Communst Party record for whom? 
Mr. BREWER. It was written in the name of Herbert Stewart. It was. alleged that Herbert Stewart was the party name of Herbert K. Sor- rell. Those records were submitted to the FBI, and the FBI made an analysis of the handwriting on the control card and on the Communist Party receipt book, and.they issued a report to the'committee which is on page 2281 of volume 3 of those proceedings, in which they positively identified the handwriting on the Communist Party receipt book andi COMMUNiSM 'EN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 497 on the Communist Party control card as the writing of Mr. Herbert K. Sorrell. Prior to that, this same document had been examined by two of the foremost handwriting experts in America, Mr. Clark Sellers and
Mr. John Harris. Mr. Clark Sellers is the man who rose to national prominence in his identification of the Hauptmann note in the Lindbergh kidnapping case. Both of those men positively identified Mr. SorrelPs handwriting on that card.
Mr. WALTER. What is Mr. Sorrell doing today? 
Mr. BREWER. He is still officially president of the Conference of Studio Unions. Whether he draws a salary, I don't know. I might say further, Mr. Sorrell has been tried before his international union, the Painters' International Union, and has been found guilty by the painters' brotherhood of having been a participant in Communist activities, and has been banned from office for 5 years, and is at this moment testing the legal validity of that action in the courts. He is still around Los Angeles and still represents himself as the spokesman for the Conference of Studio Unions, but the Conference of Studio Unions represents no one any more that I know of except a small group of painters, none of whom, or very few of whom, work in the studios at all. With reference to the representation of the painters, a National Labor Relations Board election was held, and Mr. SorrelPs union was defeated by my organization as the bargaining representative of those painters. Another way Mr. Sorrell was identified, Rena Vail in 1944 testified before the California Un-American Activities Committee that she attended a Communist convention at which Mr. Sorrell was sergeant at arms. There is also testimony before the House Committee on Education and Labor, which I mentioned previously, by a labor leader by the name of Robinson that in 1937 Mr. Sorrell attempted to recruit him into the Communist Party. So that there can be no question of doubt as to the connection between Mr. Sorrell and the Communist Party.
Mr. WooD. Notwithstanding the fact that this evidence has been in existence for some years as to his Communist affiliation, do you know of any instance where he has ever denied it?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. He has denied that he was a member. He denied it before the House committee. But his denial was proven conclusively, in my judgment, false, before that committee. He has denied that he was a party member, but, as I say, that denial has been overruled overwhelmingly, in my judgment, by the preponderance of evidence. I will say this, that in later years there is some evidence of his deviation from the party line, which would indicate to me, and Mr. Sorrell himself has made the statement, that he had a deal with the Communists; that he was to carry their program and they were to let his union alone. SSo my personal analysis of Mr. Sorrell's connection with the party is this, for what it is worth, if the committee wants it: That Mr. Sorrell became a member of the Communist Party in 1936 or 1937; that he remained in the party as an active and disciplined party member until 1940. My reason for that is that in 1946, during the period of the pact, a group in California, headed by Ellis Patterson, organized what was known as the Patterson slate of candidates for delegates to the Demo 498 INDUSTRY cratic Convention, and this was an anti-Roosevelt slate of candidates. In the propaganda for this slate of candidates for delegates, they attacked Mr. Roosevelt as a warmonger, and Mr. Sorrell was one of the candidates that ran on that ticket. Of course that ticket was defeated, they were not elected, and Mr. Roosevelt was nominated, and in the general election Mr. Sorrell did support Mr. Roosevelt. Disciplined party liners in that election did not support Mr. Roosevelt. Therefore, it is my opinion, confirmed by what Mr. Sorrell himself said, that at that point he made a deal with them that he would be relieved of some of the party tasks, but in return he would carry on their program in the guilds. I have a complete documentation, which I am sure you gentlemen have, of his participation in Communist fronts. He was completely supported by men who were Communists. In connection with local 683
Mr. POTTER. Is that the painters?
Mr. BREWER. No. That was the laboratory technicians' local, which we contend was captured by the Communists in 1940.
Mr. VELDE. What is the full name of that ?
Mr. BREWER. Film Technicians' Local 683 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. It embraced the men and women who processed the film. The secretary of that local was Norvel Crutcher. Norvel Crutcher has been active in Communist Party circles, and we were informed through confidential sources that his party name was Norman Newman, and that he was a member of the cultural commission that directed the Communist activities in Hollywood, and there is absolutely no question in my mind, although the documentary evidence is not strong in that respect, but that Mr. Norvel Crutcher was an important individual in the Communist Party and was one of the key figures. There was an individual by the name of Helmer Bergman.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the first name?
Mr. BREWER. I have seen it spelled two ways, H-e-l-m-e-r and H-j-a-l-m-e-r, and I am not sure which is the official spelling, but Helmer Bergman was a member of the Communist Party who had been employed by the Russian Government as a technical adviser to the motion-picture industry in Russia, and had spent 2 years in Russia in that capacity. (Representative Morgan M. Moulder entered hearing room.)
Mr. POTTER. What was his capacity with the union?
Mr. BREWER. He was a spokesman for the Electricians' Local, No. 40, in the studios, and was a member of the strike strategy committee of the Conference of Studio Unions, and was generally active in the picket lines. There was an individual by the name of George Bradley. George Bradley, at the time of the first strike, was vice president of the building Service Union, which embraced the janitors and the cleaning people in the studios. George Bradley was a member of the strike strategy committee of the Conference of Studio Unions, and he had previously lived in Seattle, and while in Seattle he had run for the Senate of the United States as a candidate of the Communist Party. We presented in evidence before the Central Labor Council a photostatic copy of the ballot with his name appearing officially as a candidate for the Senate of the United States as a Communist. COM1IMNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 499 In the Screen Writers' Guild there was William Pomerance. William Pomerance was formerly identified with the National Labor Relations Board, and at the time he was serving in that capacity he was involved in a situation which resulted in his transfer and in his ultimately leaving the Board, and it was generally known and generally the gossip of the community that this was a Communist faction that had been set up to try to influence the National Labor Relations Board. 
Mr. KEARNY. A Communist faction set up within the Government ? 
Mr. BREWER. That is true. There were three members of the field examining staff of the Board at that time. The third was Maurice .Howard.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know of any others? 
Mr. BREWER. I don't. But I know that in this situation we had out there, there was a definite link between certain people in the National Labor Relations Board and the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. A link between the Government and the Communist Party?
Mr. BREWER. Yes; and I will give you some additional evidence in that connection as we go along. 
Mr. MouwLER; Is that a local board in California?
Mr. BREWER. This was in the thirties when Mr. Howard and Mr. Pomerance were employed. . Who was the third one ?
Mr. POTTEr
Mr. KEARNEY. You mentioned his name yesterday, did you not? 
Mr. BREWER. No; I did not, and I don't know anything about him except that people involved in that named these three as individuals who were involved in this matter. I have that name, and if you will bear with me I will look it up. It is a name that means nothing to me otherwise. (After examining papers.) His name was Robert Muir, M-u-i-r, according to the information I have.
Mr. POTTER. Do you know where any of the three gentlemen are today?
Mr. BREwER. Mr. Pomerance is in New York City and I understand is now a producer of television films. Mr. Maurice Howard was defeated as the business agent for the Cartoonists' Guild about 2 years ago, and has since disappeared. I don't'know where he is now.
Mr. POTTER. The one engaged in producing television films, do you know what type of films he is producing?
Mr. BREWER. I understand they are commercial films being pro- duc ed by conipanies who put them on as advertising films. . I am sure his address is available and it can be determined.
Mr. VELIx. You mentioned that this took place in the thirties. Can you fix that time a little more definitely ?
Mr. BREER. Well, Mr. Pomerance left the Board following the election of 1939. He was the field examiner for the National Labor Relations Board at the time the election of '1939 was held, so it was immediately following the election of 1939 that he left the Board.
Mr. MOULDER. What election in 1939?
Mr. BREWER. The National Labor Relations Board election which I referred to yesterday. Following that election, he went from the National Labor Relal tions-Board.to the business agency of the Screen Cartoonists' Guild, and in due course of time went to the Screen Writers' Guild and served 500 - as the business representative of the Screen Writers' Guild, and'has been identified, I am sure, by Mr. Collins as one of those individuals who was active in the control of the guild.
Mr. VELDE. Are you personally acquainted with Lee Pressman ? SMr. BiEWER. No, I am not. 
Mr. VELDE. Do you know if he was counsel for the National Labor Relations Board about the same time these gentlemen were field representatives for the National Labor Relations Board?
Mr. BREWER. I am quite sure that was the same time, and it was also the time Nathan Witt was executive secretary of the Board, .and about the time when Edwin S. Smith was a member of the Board proper.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, for the benefit of the conunittee, the staff has the address, knows the address, of Mr. William -Pom:erance, and has had in mind for sometime that he should be called as a witness.
Mr. BREWER. There were many other links. There was another link that was very important. There wvas an individual by the name of Emil Freed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell it, please?
Mr. BREWER. F-r-e-e-d. Emil Freed was not a member of the Conference of Studio Unions; he was a member of Machinists' LOcal 312; but he was definitely in these councils in connection with the Hollywood strike, and was arrested in the picket line.and sentenced to jail. Emil Freed was a known Communist. He had participated openly in Communist activities in and around Los Angeles County, and injected himself into this strike and was arrested as a result of his activi.ties in the picket line, and was generally known to be influential; .,. There are many other instances of Communist association which I could point out, but it has been quite a long time ago and. t is difficult offhand to remember all of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. The question that I was asking related to the Conference of Studio Unions, in which the persons you mentioned were leaders. What was the activity of that union under the leadership of those individuals which indicated the Communist Party purposes?
Mr. BREWER. Well, as I say, in the first place we had certain groups within our own unions. We had the situation where the-Conference of Studio Unions would take a position attacking our international, and then springing up within our own unions would be groups that would support that position in concert with the enemy, instead of ,what would normally be their union allegiance. ,One of these groups was the group led bby Irving Henschel. Irving lenschel was always injecting the position of the Conference ,of Studio Unions, and was almost always supporting their position as . ., against the position of the International Alliance.
Mr. TAVENNER. You identified Henschel yesterday in:your testimony.
Mr. BREWER. Yes. He was a Communist Party member.
Mr. PoTTER. Is Mr. Henschel still in.your union?
Mr. BREWER. No. He was expelled. A lawsuit. is still pending e in connection with that, but we expect our position will be sustained. i ' 1  INDUSTRY 501 
Mr. POTTER. He was expelled because of his Communist activities?
Mr. BREWER. Yes, because of his activity in connection with this strike.
Mr. WooD. Proceed.
Mr. BREWER. As I say, in addition to this group which carried what we considered to be the Communist Party program, there was also the program of some of the building trades unions, which at least thought they had a jurisdictional grievance with our international union, and that was led by the carpenters' union. The carpenters' union is not Communist directed nor Communist controlled. They felt they had a grievance, and the Conference of Studio Unions told them, "If you will support our program we will settle all your grievances and we will see that you get the jurisdiction you think you should have from IATSE." They were very clever in exploiting any difference of opinion between our union and this group, and they did bring the carpenters's union in the conference. This required the conference to make some compromise with their own position as they went along. From my analysis and the analysis of those who can look back, it seems clear that the immediate purpose of the 1945-46 strike was to break the position of IATSE, because we were the only union that had the economic strength as an international union to break them. The carpenters' union is a union of tradesmen, and they are not an important force in the motion-picture industry. So if they had been able to use the disagreements between our union and the carpenters' union to break our strength in the studios, they would have had a relatively easy job to then move in and swing the whole thing to their one big union idea. We have in our possession, and I will make available to this committee, a complete set of the minutes of the Conference of Studio Unions since its inception.
Mr. TAVENNERF- We would like to have that.
Mr. BREWER. I will make that available to you. In those minutes you can see the pattern of Communist infiltration by the actions which they took and by the individuals who brought in the motions or resolutions. Here was an A. F. of L. union that was presumably loyal to the American Federation of Labor, but they were constantly taking positions in support of Harry Bridges, and other positions in direct conflict with the American Federation of Labor positions. In repeated instances they showed their contempt for the leadership of the American Federation of Labor. That is all brought out in a clear form in these minutes, and shows how the Communist control developed. So that while there were anti-Communist groups within the conference, the record shows that in any major test they were able pretty well to swing the influence to the Communist side. As I say, they did make some compromises from time to time, and if you know the Communist cause, you know they are willing to do that, to make compromises where necessary, but the over-all pattern of the situation is clear-the -fact that Mr. Pomerance was one of the founders of this Conference of Studio Unions, and that Mr. Crutcher and his associates were active in the Conference of Studio Unions, and the fact that when the test came the Communist fraction,'local 44, rose to their support and aid. 502 A citizens' committee was organized of people who had Communist backgrounds and who had no connection with the motion-picture industry. I have the record of the citizens' committee.
Mr. VELDE. When was that formed?
Mr. BREWER. In 1945. It was an adjunct to the apparatus running the strike.
Mr. WALTER. Have you a list of people who permitted themselves to be used by this Communist group
Mr. BREwER. I have a list of the officers of the Conference of Studio Unions. I cannot document in each individual case the Communist Party record of those individuals who were carrying the Communist Party program, but I can tell you from our study of the situationand, believe me, I want to be just as objective in this as I can-those people who carried the Communist program in this strike, and who were in it by reason of their associations and by reason of programs which they carried. I will be glad to give this to you if I can find the list.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, may I suggest that the committee consider whether a list of that type, under those circumstances, which the staff has not had a chance to investigate or follow up, should be given to the committee in executive session, or handed to the committee, rather than to name the persons?
Mr. WALTER. If it is made amply clear that there is no positive proof that they are Communists, I see no reason why we should not know who lent themselves to this sort of a movement. I think it is perfectly apparent that all these people are not Communists.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Brewer has made that perfectly clear. 
Mr. WALTER. Yes. 
Mr. MOULDER. That is based on his opinion. SMr. BREWER. It is based upon more than my opinion. It is based upon my knowledge of the activities which went on and the persons who were active in directing those activities. As I say, there is no way that I know of at this point that you can say beyond any question of a doubt as to whether each of those individuals were*or were not members of the Communist Party.
Mr. WALTER. Have those names been made public before? SMr. BREWER. They were a matter of public record at the time.
Mr. WALTER. Have any of them denied. Communist Party mem- bership
Mr. BREWER. Most of them do. Generally speaking, if you say someone is a Communist, even if you have the record, if they think they can get away with it, they deny it. Some have and some have not.
Mr. WooD. What good purpose can it serve in this investigation to put in the public record the names of people as to whom we have no proof of Communist affiliation? If counsel and the staff feel the list would be of aid to them, let it be submitted to the counsel for such use as the staff may make of it. , 
Mr. JAcxsoN. How many names have you, Mr. Brewer ,
Mr. BREWER. About 40, 1 would say. (Representative Clyde Doyle entered hearing room.) 
Mr. BREWER. Then I will confine myself to those individuals who have definite records of Communist association, at least. . 'A.' .*-;' :h ^ I INDUSTRY 503 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you submit that list to the staff of the com- mittee for such investigative purposes as it desires to make of it?
Mr. BREWER. Yes; I will be very happy to. One other very significant factor in connection with this whole matter is the matter of the attorneys who represented these people. In almost every instance when we got in litigation there was one of two law firms which appeared as the representatives of these individuals, and I might say that in connection with local 683 which I mentioned they had as their retainer the law firm of Katz, Gallagher & Margolis, which has since become the firm of Margolis & McTernan. 'This firm has a long record of activity in defending known Communists and in defending Communist causes. This committee, I think, needs not have any information on that. The local union which went on strike against their international union was represented by Katz, Gallagher & Margolis.
Mr. WALTER. As a matter of fact, a witness a short while ago identi- fied Margolis as a Communist Party member.
Mr. BREWER. That is right. The firm of Katz, Gallagher & Margolis appeared as an important factor. Katz, Gallagher & Margolis :appeared as representatives of local unions of our international whch were supporting the Conference of Studio Unions in defiance of our union, and Katz, Gallagher & Margolis also defended many of the -other unions. In connection with the trial of Irving Henschel, who eventually was tried for his activity in supporting the pro-Communist group, Katz, Gallagher & Margolis were brought in by the group defending Mr. Henschel to assist them in his defense, and they later filed a lawsuit in his behalf. That firm also appeared in many of the National Labor .Reations Board cases. In the case of the set decorators' union, which set the whole strike off, Margolis was attorney for the Conference of :Studio Unions in that particular case. In addition to Mr. Margolis, when Mr. Henschel was tried by our union for his activities, the business agents of several of our other local unions came to his defense, and one of the business agents that came to his defense was the business agent of local 683, and, by a rather :strange coincidence, just about the time that this trial was to proceed, local 683 paid a fee to Margolis of $3,000 for some unexplained reason, which indicated to us that local 683 was actually hiring Mr. Margolis to defend Mr. Irving Henschel, a known Communist. Another individual who defended Mr. Henschel was Ted Ellsworth, who went on the radio in a blast against our international union at the height of the strike and attacked our international, along with Phil Connelly, Herbert Sorrell, and others. As a labor man, there was one instance that convinced me that the line of division in this strike was not the trade-union line at all, but the Communist line. It took place like this: Presumably we were in .a jurisdictional dispute with the painters. That was, on the face of it, what the disputewas about. One of the trade-union principles is that if a man isa member of an international union he should support his union in a jurisdictional dispute. I went down to the Central Labor Council and began to examine into the affiliations of the men in the council. I found that the presi-dent of Ute Central Labor Council was a painter, so I naturally as:surmed he would support Mr. Sorrell, who was also a painter. On the 81595-51-pt. 2-14 504 INDUSTRY executive board of the council was Mr. Norvel Crutcher, business agent of local 683. I naturally supposed he would support us. But I found on the first vote the painter was on our side and our business agent was on the other side, the side of the Conference of Studio Unions. So all along the line it became clear that the line of demarcation was not the trade-union line, but the Communist Party line. That is the way we followed out the strike, and I assure you if we had not analyzed it accurately we would have lost the strike and they would have had control.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by "control," and to what ex- tent did control affect the moving-picture industry ?
Mr. BREwER. Well, of course, the motion-picture industry, by its nature, is vulnerable to a militant trade-union structure. It requires a very great investment, and when schedules are set and commitments are made, a strike called at a crucial moment can cause very great financial loss. It was very obvious from the "quickie" strikes called by Mr. Sorrell that he appreciated that. In line with the general program that was shaped up, if the Communist groups got control of the unions, together with the influences in the creative field, they could easily have branded a producer as being antilabor and just said, "We won't work for him." That was the plan in connection with the Rickenbacker picture, which I mentioned yesterday, which plan was abandoned apparently because of the statements he made about Russia. Another important factor in this question of Communist domination came to a showdown on the issue of arbitration. These groups were accusing us of refusing to arbitrate, and when the arbitration was settled they would find some technical reasons for refusing to take the arbitration. In the latter phase of the 1946 strike the Screen Actors' Guild got into this matter very earnestly, and they tried to work out a program of arbitration which would prevent these jurisdictional disputes, which, on the surface, seemed to be the base of the trouble. They held several meetings at the Knickerbocker Hotel, and a complete transcript of the proceedings was taken. They held some followup meetings, and it looked like we were going to work out a program of arbitration. Under the leadership of Larry Bielenson we held a series of meetings, and we agreed essentially on the basic points for an arbitration program. Larry Bielenson, along with the attorneys for the CSU, were to work out the details of arbitration. The attorneys for CSU were three law firms: Katz, Gallagher & Margolis; the firm of Pestana & Esterman, and in that connection I will present some information; and a third representative was Abe Isserman, who was brought from New York to sit in- on these conferences and help direct the proceedings. Mr. Isserman is one of the attorneys in New York who defended the 11 Communists and who is now serving a term for his contempt, or who is under indictment for that. So here we had these three firms. We had agreed upon the essential elements for this arbitration and the lawyers, including Mr. Bielenson, were to draft the agreement into a legal form. The next day each of us got a draft proposed by Mr. Esterman which completely changed all the basic principles we had agreed upon,  505 and it was at that point that the Screen Actors' Guild made the charge that there were elements who did not want the strike settled, and they could no longer remain neutral in the matter. 
Mr. POTTER. Who was head of the Screen Actors' Guild at that time?
Mr. BREWER. Mr. Ronald Reagan. 
Mr. DOYLE. Was Mr. Esterman in on the previous conferences 
Mr. BREWER. Yes. So the arbitration was knocked out the window and the strike was never settled. When you put this whole picture together, there was no one close to the strike who today does not share the view that the real force behind that strike was the Communist group. 
Mr. POTER. The list you have that you mentioned a while ago were people interested in continuing the strike, that is, working for the interest of the CSU ? 
Mr. BREWER. The list I have were officers of the CSU, but I would like to reserve the right to indicate those who we felt confident were not under the influence of the Communist Party. There were others we felt pretty sure were under the influence of the Communist Party. There were others we felt pretty sure were under the influence of the Communist Party.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Chairman, don't you think that would be helpful? After all, I think it would be very helpful.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, do I understand the gentleman to mean he wants those names given in open session?
Mr. POTTER. They are the ones we have been talking about all morning.
Mr. WOOD. I think it is pertinent to the inquiry for the witness to mention the names of those he has cause to believe were in the Communist movement.
Mr. BREWER. I will be glad to do that. I would like to make one point, that Mr. William Esterman was also a recent associate with the National Labor Relations Board, and he had appeared as an agent of the Board in earlier cases in this very matter. 
Mr. KEARNEY. That is the fourth person you have named from the Government?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. I will give you a couple more.
Mr.JEARNEY. We would like to have all you have.
Mr. BREWER. I can give you one other instance that ties this in with the National Labor Relations Board. In connection with the investigation of Mr. Henschel and the Communist fraction which worked at Warner Studios, a proceeding was brought before the National Labor Relations Board, and they sent a field examiner out by the name of Kamaroff.
Mr. WooD. Spell it. 
Mr. BREWER. K-a-ni-a-r-o-f-f, Michael Kamaroff. We felt that 
Mr. Kamaroff was very hostile to us, and he did not seem to be administering the matter in a fair manner. All we could do was complain, but in the course of this very investigation, when he was supposed to be making an investigation of Mr. Irving Henschel, he was' lost up in the mountains, and he got some publicity, and it was brought out that he had been skiing with Herbert and Edward Biberman. In his recommendation this case ,was recommended for complaint, and 506 INDUSTRY a formal charge was issued by the National Labor Relations Board in this case. In the course of the case a field examiner was sent out from Washington, D. C., to hear the case, and he heard the case and issued ant intermediate report, and we were so schocked at the terms of that intermediate report, which seemed to lean so far to this group which was purely a Communist fraction, that be began to inquire into the background of this examiner, Mr. Reimer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell that? \ Mr. BREWER. R-e-i-m-e-r. We found he was the first secretary of the National Lawyers' Guild, and that his wife was active in work here in Washington lobbying for a front listed as subversive, and in addition he was active in the defense of George Wheeler, who was left on the staff of General Clay, but later renounced his citizenship of the United States and became a citizen of Czechoslovakia.
Mr. KEARNEY. He is the man who went behind the iron curtain ?
Mr. BREWER. Yes, George Wheeler. They sent another lawyer to try the case by the name of Robert. Risman. Immediately after he presented the case on behalf of the Board he left the Board and set up a labor consultant service with
Mr. Kamaroff, and was associated with him for a while. Those are some of the problems we had in our effort to defend our position.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether the man you referred to as Reimer had the first name Mortimer ? 
Mr. BREWER. That is right. He was the trial examiner, and he found that not only were these men justified legally in joining forces with the Conference of Studio Unions, but they should be put back to work with back pay.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other words, he made a report in favor of the Communist Party ?
Mr. BREWER. My analysis was that he stretched the law in such a way as to put these men we had identified as Communists back in important positions in the studios. Legally, what he said was that the right of this group to rebel and join with this wildcat strike was a protected right under the National Labor Relations Act, and therefore they should be reinstated with full back pay.
Mr. WALTER. Do you recall the approximate date of that decision? 
Mr. BREWER. I think it was in the fall of 1947.
Mr. KEARNEY. Was that decision carried out?
Mr. BREWER. The decision was not carried out. The Board con- firmed the decision in part. They said the employer had no right to discharge them until they were expelled from the union. Mr. Reimer said the employer had no right to discharge them even after they had been expelled, but the Board said that after they had been expelled by the union they could be discharged. . The company refused to comply with the order, and the case stayed in the Board until just before Mr. Denham left, and at that time he said to send all cases to the court for decision, and this case is,now before the circuit court of appeals.
Mr. IKEANEY. Do you know if any of the four former Government employees you mentioned were card-carrying Communists ? 
Mr. BREWER. Mr. Henschel was identified as of 1938 as a Communist Party member for 3 years.  507 
Mr. KEARNEY. Was that while he was employed by the Government ? I am asking about these former Government employees you mentioned.
Mr. BREWER. I am sorry. As has been pointed out, Mr. Pomerance, who left the Board earlier, has been identified in these proceedings as a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. While he was employed by the Government?
Mr. BREWER. The identification here I think was after he left the Government.
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned this strike several times, and I am not quite clear on the dates of the strike. How many employees and what type of employees were involved ?
Mr. BREWER. May I make one point in connection with this other matter before I go to that?
Mr. VELDE. Yes. 
Mr. POTTER. Do you know where Mr. Reimer is now?
Mr. BREWER. I understand he is practicing law in Cleveland. In connection with Mr. Frank Pestana, only recently, in testimony before the California Committee on Un-American Activities, Mr. Paul Crouch, who was I think for 17 years an official of the Communist Party, testified that he had been the district organizer for the Communist Party for Alameda County, and that while he was such an organizer, Mr. Frank Pestana was a member of the professional branch of the special section of that county. This is in ,the sworn testimony before that committee. He identified this special section as a section that had been organized for purposes of espionage. In connection with the various strikesMr. TAVENNNER. May I suggest that in answer to the Congressman's question you develop the whole question of the number of strikes and what occurred.
Mr. BREWER. The first of the series of strikes took place in October 1944. I was not there at that time, so my testimony is based upon the information I have gotten. It was a short-lived strike. It primarily consisted of painters. The group .which later comprised the Conference of Studio Unions did not participate in that strike. I heard Sorrell say they just decided to go fishing, and the National Labor Relations Board ordered them back. So they came back to work and took their case to the Board, and the basis of the strike was an effort to get recognition for this group of set decorators. The second strike took place March 12, 1945, and in that connection there is a very peculiar circumstance with respect to the Communist position. At the time that strike was called the official position of the party was no strikes. It was during the love feast days.
Mr. VELDE. And the party was known as the Communist Political Association at that time ?
Mr. BREWER. That is right. There seemed to be a great deal of confusion the day the strike took place, because the People's World had been supporting Sorrell and supporting the Conference of Studio Unions, and on the morning of the strike, March 12, there seemed to be a great deal of confusion, which would indicate that.they had not contemplated that it would come to a head that quickly. In examining the official position of the party, we find that for 3 days the People's World never published one word about the strike, 508 so apparently there was confusion even on the part of the writers of the People's World and the party itself as to what the Communist Party line would be on the strike. The day the strike started not one word came down from the People's World. That went on until Thursday of that week. On Thursday of that week, in a front page editorial, came down the party line, which was to end the strike. The formula which they were to accept was laid down clearly. They were to get the producers and IATSE to agree to have the matter submitted to the National Labor Relations Board. We had always agreed to that position, but they attempted to make it appear we did not. That was on Thursday. Up to that day our laboratory union had observed their picket line. On that day they went back to work.
Mr. Henschel and his associates had observed the strike. On that day they agreed to go through the picket line but not do any work. The Screen Actors' Guild went back to work. The screen cartoonists went back to work. The screen publicists went back to work. Mr. Sorrell's union stayed out, and the carpenters union stayed out. Mr. Sorrell said there were some details he wanted to iron out with Hutcheson.
Mr. POTTER. Who is Hutcheson?
Mr. BREWER. President of the Carpenters' International Union, a well-known figure and a well-known anti-Communist. Sorrell arranged meetings with our union and' Mr. Hutcheson. Mr. Hutcheson was adamant, would not budge, so Mr. Sorrell was in a quandary. It meant the difference between success and failure. In this connection, it was very interesting to note the attitude on the part of Mr. Sorrell. I made a very thorough study of that. We found that the party was not too critical of Mr. Sorrell, but within the groups in Hollywood there began to be rumblings that Sorrell ought not be permitted to get away with this. At one point, in May 1945, it appeared that the Communists were getting set to really discipline Mr. Sorrell for maintaining his position with Hutcheson rather than with the party, and an editorial appeared in the paper, Good Guy Mr. Sorrell, to the effect that Sorrell had been a good fellow and all that, but he should get these people back to work, that the war effort needed them.
Mr. JACKSON. What paper was that?
Mr. BREWER. The People's World. Just about a month after that the Duclos letter hit the country and a peculiar phenomenon took place, and many of these people who had found reasons why they should not cross the picket line took a new position. In due course a new strike vote was taken in the Screen Publicists' Guild, and it was defeated by the publicists. A new strike vote was taken in the Screen Office Workers' Guild and it was defeated. A new strike vote was taken in the Screen Cartoonists' Guild, and it carried so far as the cartoonists went, but as to the other two it did not. Before very long, down came a directive from Mr. Lindeloff.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who is he? 
Mr. BREWER. President of the Painters' International Brotherhood. A directive came from Lindeloff ordering these people to go out on strike and observe the picket lines. That split the union wide open. The majority stayed in and did not observe the picket line. That  509 was the basis on which the new union was established for office employees, because the people who went back- formed an independent union and began building a new union. It was at this point that new agitation began in the guilds for support of the strike, but, as Mr. Collins testified, they had oversold them in.the first instance, and they couldn't get the writers to go, and couldn't get the actors to go, because many of them were under contracts and most of them were drawing good salaries. So the strike continued on and it eventually began to wane. That brought us up to October 5.
Mr. POwTER. Did any of the guilds support the strike?
Mr. BREWER. The talent guilds did not; no. The evidence is that they agitated a little bit, but a careful analysis indicated to me they began to see the dangers of it and didn't want to risk what they Shad.
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned the Duclos letter. What union was out on strike when the Duclos letter came out?
Mr. BREWER. The Studio Carpenters' Union; the building service employees, I am not sure.
Mr. VELDE. At the time the Duclos letter came out, only those unions were out on strike who were opposed to the Communist Party line; is that correct ?
Mr. BREWER. Well, I don't think you can say that completely.
Mr. VELDE. Generally?
Mr. BREWER. Generally speaking, they were the ones whose leaders were not completely subject to party discipline, which at that time apparently included Mr. Sorrell.
Mr. VELDE. Then after the Duclos letter came out, do I under- stand you to say the Communist element in the labor unions caused other strikes ?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. Then all the unions that had embraced the Conference of Studio Unions went on strike after the Duclos letter. 
Mr. VELDE. About how long after the Duclos letter did they go out on strike? 
Mr. BREWER. The issue was raised about the 1st of July. in July that these other unions went out. It was 
Mr. VELDE. And isn't it a fact that at the time the Duclos letter came out there was dissension in the party itself ? 
Mr. BREWER. Yes; a great deal of confusion, but when the line came down in the People's World, you could see it quickly reflected in the activities of the unions which were under party discipline. On October 5 a completely new change took place.- A mass meeting was held the day previous to that at the Hollywood Legion Stadium, in which the leaders announced that they were going to get tough.
Mr. POTTER. Leaders of whom
Mr. BREWER. Of the Conference of Studio Unions. That was an understatement, because on October 5 there appeared around Warners Bros. studios mass picket lines of around 5,000 people, and planted in those picket lines were some pretty rough figures, and they virtually closed Warner Bros. studies at that time. Very few people got in. Mr. Warner couldn't get in himself, and those who tried were pretty roughly treated. 510 It was evident that the nucleus of this group was about 50 longshoremen who had been sent by Bridges. I can't substantiate that by evidence, but I was told that Bridges was in Hollywood and attended the meeting at which the decision was made to get tough, and there was evidence of professional strikebreakers. I will tell you one instance that convinced us we were not up against any group of people who didn't know the score. One of our men attempted to drive through the picket line in his car. He had his doors. locked. And some picket walked up with a two-by-four and with one clip the door popped right open. There were tons of debris, milk bottles, and rocks and stones, that were gathered up after that strike. It was a very bitter affair. An investigation was subsequently made of the violence in that connection by the State Committee of California on Law and Order, and I have. here a report which I will leave. It is known as the C. Don Field report. He was chairman.
Mr. PorrER. How long did that strike continue?
Mr. BREWER. Well, the strike continued. On the following Monday after the violence broke out, which I think was the 8th or 9th, I am not sure, we attempted to organize our own forces to break through thelines, in cooperation with officials of Warners Bros. and Warner Bros. police. We got through that morning, but 150 men or more received medical treatment as a result of that effort to get in the studio. Then there appeared a committee which was headed by John Garfield-appeared originally-and John Howard Lawson was on it, and they served notice on the public that they would be on the picket linesthe next morning to see that the civil rights of the pickets were not violated.
Mr. KEARNEY. John Garfield, did you say?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. And they sent a telegram to Jack Warner, who. couldn't get in, accusing him of being responsible for the violence. In a period of 8 days they completely neutralized the forces of law and order. They were in control of that community absolutely.
Mr. KEARNEY. IS that John Garfield the same one who testified before this committee that he hated communism ?
Mr. BREWER. John Garfield was the first name on the list that I will supply you, and the first name on the announcement made to the press of their intention to be on the picket line to protect the civil rights of the strikers.
Mr. JACKSON. Did John Garfield take any other active part? Was: he on the picket line?
Mr. BREWER. I can't say that he was. I was relatively new at that time. There was so much happening and we were under such pressurethat I can't honestly say.
Mr. VELDE. I want to fix the date of this violence with reference tothe Communist Party line in connection with the Duclos letter.
Mr. BREWER. This was October 5, 1945, about 4 months after the Duclos letter came out.
Mr. VELDE. It was after the Communist Party had followed the Duclos letter?
Mr. BREWER. Yes; and I think it was after the Communist Party was reorganized.
Mr. scene ? VELDE. That was the time John Garfield appeared on the  INDUSTRY 
Mr. BmEWER. In the way in which I mentioned. 511 He signed a tele- gram, along with this other group included among which was John Howard Lawson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that a group from the Screen Actors' Guild, or Screen Writers' Guild? 
Mr. BREWER. Not solely. It was a group of persons who were in a professional capacity rather than a so-called labor capacity.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did Garfield ever appear on the picket line?
Mr. BREWER. I can't swear that he did. I was under the impression that he did, but I can't say that he did.
Mr. TAVENNER. You said that for a period of some days the law- enforcement officials were neutralized by this group.
Mr. BREWER. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What group were you referring to?
Mr. BREWER. The picket lines of the Conference of Studio Unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. There was some question in my mind whether you were referring to the action of a citizens' committee or to the action of a picket line.
Mr. BREWER. The forces of law and,order seemed completely inade- quate to cope with the situation.
Mr. KEARNEY. Was any attempt made to call out the National Guard or the State militia ?
Mr. BREWER. There was some mention of it. Eventually the situa- tion was improved somewhat. The citizens' committee, headed by Garfield, said they would be observers to see that the civil rights of the pickets were protected. To those of us who saw what happened it was funny. There were tons of debris and milk bottles and iron bars and chains after the strike. There was evidence in the ranks of these forces that they were completely delighted at the way they had been able to handle it. There was an investigation. I was in that.
Mr. TAVENNER. What group was that?
Mr. BREWER. The group of the Conference of Studio Unions. This was the first time when there seemed to be a real organized system of violence.Eric Johnston then entered the picture. He had recently been retained as head of the Motion Picture Association. He came out and said, "This strike has got to end." We were willing to end it, but we did not want these forces who had been clearly identified to go back into the studios. We took it up with Eric Johnston. We said we did not want these people who had caused the trouble to go back in the studios. We could not convince Eric Johnston that our position was correct. I remember one'statement I made which I found later was true. I was trying to plead with him that the thing to do was bring in inter- national unions. He said, "Sorrell will never agree with that, and we can't let this thing go on. We have to have peace in this industry." I said, "Mr. Johnston, if you approach it in the way you are approaching it now you will get peace in the same way that Chamberlain got peace at Munich." But he decided that that was his view-very honestly, I am absolutely convinced of that. So he flew to the American Federation of Labor and told the American Federation of Labor to formally inter- cede, and it was then that the American Federation of Labor handed down a directive that they would arbitrate the dispute. 512 INDUSTRY 
Mr. KEARNEY. During these days of violence, can you definitely place Herbert K. Sorrell in that
Mr. BREWER. Yes. was never convicted. He was indicted for conspiracy, although he He was the leader of it. There is no doubt about that, and I will say he was no mean protagonist. effective leader. He was a very 
Mr. TAVENNER. Returning to your testimony regarding the list of observers, you testified in 1947 before this committee and gave the list of those individuals?
Mr. BREWER. Yes; I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. That appears in your testimony?
Mr. BREWER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And is this the list to which you referred: John Howard Lawson, John Garfield, John Wexley, Sidney Buchman, Howard Koch, Larry Adler, Lewis Milestone, Dalton Trumbo, Cary McWilliams, Frank Tuttle, Robert Rossen, and William Pomerance?
Mr. BREWER. I am quite sure that is the list. Before I testified positively I would have to refresh my recollection from the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. This is on page 354 of your testimony in 1947 [handing document to the witness]. 
Mr. BREWER. That was the list.
Mr. JACKSON. List of whom?
Mr. TAVENNER. List of persons who appeared as observers, to which he referred.
Mr. BREWER. That is the list; yes. Then what happened was, the strikers went back to work, and, of course, one of the problems was: What will we do with the men we put in while the strikers were out ?
Mr. POTTER. Did you say Eric Johnston appealed to your head- quarters?
Mr. BREWER. To the American Federation of Labor.
Mr. POTTER. And was settlement reached at that time ?
Mr. BREWER. Actually, it is supposed to be the first time in its history that the A. F. of L. interfered in that way, but they issued a directive in which they ordered the unions back to work and set up a three-man committee. Then began a series of discussions within the American Federation of Labor, led by Mr. Hutcheson. I am ahead of my story. The three-man committee came out and made a decision. There was one group of workers under the decision which the decision gave to IATSE, and as a result Mr. Hutcheson said he would not accept that decision.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the decision?
Mr. BREWER. They said the set erectors should go to IATSE, and everybody agreed except Mr. Hutcheson, but he did not call a strike. He said his union could work if they wanted to, but he would not, as president, agree to it. That remained a source of agitation. Our union made a decision at that point. During the course of the strike it had been almost impossible for us to convince people of the Communist nature of this situation. Everyone thought we were only trying to justify our posi- tion, and we were not able to convince even Eric Johnston that the real trouble was this Communist influence.  513 
Mr. VELDE. You were not able to convince your international presi- dent of that either, were you?
Mr. BREWER. At that point; yes. I will say this, that he didn't understand it as well as I did, but he certainly realized that there was something wrong. He was not sure that I was right in all my analyses, but in general he agreed that the Communist influence was there. We went back to the American Federation of Labor in 1946 and tried to point it out to them, and he supported my position almost 100 percent, although he was not as close to it as I was, or as vocal as I was.
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned a while ago that this was the first time the A. F. of L. issued a directive of that kind.
Mr. BREWER. As far as A. F. of L. is concerned, that is correct. The A. F. of L. realized that Sorrell had been an unruly individual, but they were not convinced that Communist infiltration was as serious as we pointed out to them. They were not at all convinced of it. Up to this point every time we had mentioned it we had been confronted with the barrier, "After all, you have a strike and are trying to settle it." After the strike was settled we launched on a program to show, in the absence of conflict, which presumably had been settled but which we knew would have to recur, the Communist influence. We instituted charges against Sorrell. It almost ended up in a riot, but nevertheless it was a sounding board by which we were able to point out this activity. Then we distributed Mr. Sorrell's record among these people showing how he had for a period of 10 years completely adhered to these activities. That was quite successful. We had a problem within our own membership to convince them. Then a second strike took place in July.
Mr. TAVENNER. You said second. You have already described two.
Mr. BREWER. There was a third. It was short-lived.
Mr. TAVENNER. Actually, isn't it the fourth? You described a strike in 1944. 
Mr. BREER. That was the first.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then March 12, 1945.
Mr. BREWER. That was the second. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And October 5 was'a continuation of that same strike?
Mr. BREWER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then this is the third strike?
Mr. BREWER. This is the third. This was over an issue of the ma- chinists. We had a group of machinists who had joined our union during the course of the first episode, and the union had agreed to remove them from the studios. We thought that was wrong, but there didn't seem to be much we could do about it at the time. Then the machinists withdrew from the American Federation of Labor. When that happened we said, "We want these 40 men who have been'barred to go back to work." Sorrell resisted that, but we finally were suc- cessful in getting that done. He was trying to generate a strike when the strike of July 4, 1946, took place, and at the last minute the unions lined up solidly against us, that is, all the substantial guilds. When he saw this. solid front of A. F. of L. unions, he said the reason he had called the strike was to get a contract. He was address- 514 ing a meeting of our members, trying to get them to support his position, and I found out about it and rushed to the meeting and confronted him on the platform, and I said, "If you really mean you are after a contract, we will join you, and if you join that, I invite you to go with me to the producers' association, and I will go with you, and we will see that you get a contract, but the jurisdictional issue must be kept out of it." I issued that challenge, and it resulted in the so-called Treaty of Beverly Hills. We signed a contract, which was a basic contract, as a result of that meeting held in a cottage near the Beverly Hills Hotel. Then there was a meeting at which Mr. Hutcheson got through a resolution which we found was a repudiation of the arbitration. His whole moti ve was to try to confuse the situation. Sorrell didn't like the situation, but he was tied to Hutcheson, and the party line in any strike was pretty good at that time, because the party line changed completely. The result was that on September 16 the carpenters' union announced they would not work on any sets erected by the set erectors in our union. This resulted in a sit-down strike. They were discharged, and they set up picket lines, and that started the fourth and last strike. Officially, it is still going on. That started September 16, 1946. The Communists supported the strike, generally speaking, and the Communist forces were completely smashed. Some of the unions that had been in the conference came back in, in March or April of the following year, and are back in the studios and are working along very peacefully.
Mr. POTTER. Was there any violence in the last strike?
Mr. BREWER. The violence started almost where they had left off in October 1945, but we had learned a few things in that time, and we had organized our group, with the result that with the cooperation of the teamsters' union-I want to say that in this whole affair the teamsters' union was 100 percent in support of our position and the anti-Communist position, because they had had experience with these groups, and they never deviated at any point in that support.
Mr. WALTER. As a matter of fact, the smashing of the Communist influence came as a result of following the plan of Eric Johnston for the settlement of the entire trouble, didn't it?
Mr. BREWER. Well, except that the second strike, of course, the first plan did not settle the strike. In other words, the second strike did what we had tried to convince Mr. Johnston should have been done in the first strike, that the only way the internationalists should be permitted to come back was if they suppressed the Communist forces' influence in their unions. This second war was even more bloody than the first, because the first was a short war and the second was prolonged, and the picket lines took up where the others left off.
Mr. POTTER. What was Mr. Johnston's position in the second strike?
Mr. BREWER. Completely in sympathy with our view. He saw that there was no opportunity for peace with these forces at work. The mass picket lines were violent. We had the workers meet at designated points and get in busses, and the busses were so heavy they could not be tipped over. Even police cars were tipped over. This is a matter of record, and pictures are available. Mit. POTTER. In the second strike, did they have the sympathy of the guilds as they did before  
Mr. BREWER. It was not so pronounced. 515 The whole, situation had been materially clarified.
Mr. POTTER. Did John Howard Lawson take part?
Mr. BREWER. Oh, yes; of course.
Mr. POTTER. What about John Garfield ?
Mr. BREWER. So far as I remember, John Garfield did not appear except in the meetings of the Screen Actors' Guild. He did not take a prominent part in the second strike situation.
Mr. VELDE. The second strike situation is the one in 1946 ? 
Mr. BREWER. It is the fourth strike, but the second violent situation.. They got these busses, and after things quieted down at Warner Bros. they moved to MGM. You never knew where they would be next. It was quite an extensive harassing operation. Gradually the effect of the strike began to wear off. The very key spot in the motion-picture industry is the laboratory technicians Before a set can be torn down they require that they be able to see the set on film. In October 1946 local 683 joined the strike. The vulnerable spot was technicolor. The only place it could be processed was in the technicolor laboratory in Hollywood. That local was under the control of Crutcher, McKnight, and Martin. Under the guise of wanting a contract-which was merely a guise because we had agreed to a 40percent raise-this union shut down the technicolor laboratories. They had 20 million unprinted negatives in their plant at that time. It was really a crisis. Then we moved in, under our constitution, and took charge of the laboratory local, and attempted to get physical possession of it, but they refused to let us. It was during the early days of the strike of the laboratory local that the most noted violence took place, in the form of five bombings. Five of the homes of our members who broke with the pro-Communist membership were bombed. One member, Pottle, suffered a broken arm. They concentrated on technicolor, and finally it progressed to the whole of the industry. Another plan they used was mass pickets at Columbia. In the meantime, injunctions had been issued, and in defiance of those injunctions they completely blocked off the street in front of Columbia. There were mass arrests. That was in the jurisdiction of the city of Los Angeles. Warner Bros. was in Burbank. In Los Angeles the law-enforcement officers handled them pretty well. The situation at Columbia resulted in mass arrests of 2,000. That disillusioned a lot of good people who had been swooped up into this thing, and after their sojourn in jail they came out with the thought' that was the end. Another thing they did was, about 8 o'clock in the morning about 500 or 600 got out of their cars and left their cars in the middle of the street.
Mr. VELDE. You are not claiming the Communist Party was re- sponsible for all this ? 
Mr. BREWER. No. There were a great many people who were dragged into the thing, but I do say that when the show-down came the Communist leaders were in control, because it, was at this point that the Screen Actors' Guild began to :get into the strike, and it was at this point that they went back to the American Federation of 516 INDUSTRY Labor and demanded that the American Federation of Labor do something, and they didn't get it done because of Mr. Hutcheson's influence. 
Mr. VELDE. Can you set the date when the Screen Actors' Guild came in?
Mr. BREWER. It was in October 1946. They went back to the American Federation of Labor and they did not get any satisfaction there, so they came back to Hollywood and called this series of meetings. The first two were held at the Knickerbocker Hotel. The result was agreement on the part of both sides to sit down and try to work out an arbitration plan.
Mr. VELDE. At that time was it generally known among you labor leaders that there was Communist influence at work in carrying on this strike?
Mr. BREWER. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. It was at that same time that John Garfield was in the Screen Actors' Guild ? 
Mr. BREWER. Yes. 
Mr. VELDE. And was very instrumental in working against commu- nism, so he testified, and in settling the strike ?
Mr. BREWER. Well, no; I would not say that that is true. There is no evidence I have been able to find out. Mr. Garfield's presence did not show itself, that I remember, except in one instance, and that is when he attended a meeting of the Screen Actors' Guild; and as far as the second strike was concerned, Garfield's presence is not indicated in any way that I have been able to determine that is conclusive. He was not on their side and was not on our side, but we had always considered him to be on their side.
Mr. VELDE. Do you think it is possible for a man of Mr. John Gar- field's position in the Screen Actors' Guild not to know there was a Communist movement in Hollywood at that time?
Mr. BREWER. It would seem to me it would be very difficult for a man to be in the position he was in and not know it. It seems in- conceivable to me.
Mr. WooD. Proceed.
Mr. BREWER. The Screen Actors' Guild held these meetings and we sat down with a committee from the conference. We took the posi- tion we would be glad to listen to any arbitration, but that the original award of these three men, which we felt was in good faith, would have to be the basis for arbitration; that it was handed down according to the arbitration agreement we had accepted, and we took the position that was the final decision and any effort of any group to change it could not be acceptable. Finally the Conference of Studio Unions agreed to accept that position. So we said all right; we would agree upon arbitration, and we had even agreed on a man. We agreed we would ask Mr. Joseph Keenan, a man who had rendered important Government service during the war, and who was one of the outstanding labor mediators in the country on tough labor disputes, and both sides accepted him.
Mr. POTTER. Whom do you mean by "both sides"?
Mr. BREWER. Conference of Studio Unions and IATSE. Sorrell and his group were also at these meetings, and the three law firms were there-Margolis, Esterman, and Isserman. We had a joke about  INDUSTRY 517 Hutcheson being represented, in effect, by Isserman, but that was the fact. Isserman was the spokesman. After we agreed that this arbitration award should be the basis upon which future arbitration should rest, the lawyers retired to reduce it to writing, and it was completely redrafted, and a proposal came back leaving it open on the set erectors; and the arbitration broke up. It was at that point the Screen Actors' Guild said: Apparently there is a group that does not want to settle the strike, and we must take a position with the people who have kept their word and see that this influence is removed from our studios. 
Mr. POTTER. Did you say "Screen Writers" ?
Mr. BREWER. No; Screen Actors. Screen writers were not in it. 
Mr. JACKSON. Ronald Reagan was in the Screen Actors' Guild?
Mr. BREWER. Yes. Reagan was in the Army during the first strike. From that time on there has been no one more effective in the effort to rid the industry of this menace than Ronald Reagan.
Mr. POTTER. Who opposed Reagan in the guild at that time ?
Mr. BREWER. We always considered Anne Revere and Rose Hobart against us, and for my part I put John Garfield in that position. If I am asked why, it is pretty hard to say.
Mr. JACKSON. Wouldn't his association with the other signers of the telegram be sufficient in your mind to indicate he was opposed at that time to your position ? 
Mr. BREWER. If Mr. Garfield was not opposed at all times to our position, we were never conscious of that fact, and we were never conscious of it until this controversy came up.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will stand in recess until 3 o'clock. (Thereupon, at 12:50 p. m., a recess was taken until 3 p. m. the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION 
Mr. WOOD. The committee will be in order. For the continuation of this hearing I have set up a subcommittee consisting of Messrs. Doyle, Potter, and Wood. They are all present. TESTIMONY OF ROY M. BREWER--Resumed 