Mr. FORDIS. My name is Sam Fordis.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted that the witness is accompanied by the same counsel who accompanied the preceding witness. When and where were you born, Mr. Fordis ?
Mr. FoDms. I was born in July of 1921 in Kansas City, Mo.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. FODIS. I reside in Los Angeles, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles?
Mr. FORDI. I have lived here successively since, I believe, 1934.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession? 
Mr. FoRDIs. I am a musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been.
Mr. FORDIS. Yes, I would be glad to. I received the usual elementary school education and studied music at an early age privately. I was given a scholarship as a youth somenwhere-Oh, I believe I was 9 or 10 years old. I played a weekly radio program with my teacher acting as guardian, so to speak, along with me. I played these programs over one of the important stations in Kansas City. Our family left Kansas City and came here, at which time I resumed my studies of violin, and then the correlative studies in music proper-harmony, counterpoint, composition, solfeggio. I attended high school, was concert master of the high school orchestra, was represented on the, as I recall, the all-city high school orchestra, and then the all-State high school orchestra in the capacity as violinist. On graduation from high school, I went to college where I received an A. A. degree, an associate of arts degree in music. I went to UCLA, continuing my education in music, in the meanwhile playing, performing, studying in every attempt to broaden my musical knowledge and understanding.
Mr. TAVENNER. What date did you complete your studies at UCLA?
Mr. FORDI. Somewhere in May or June of 1942, I believe. I enlisted in the Army Air Forces.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you serve in the United States Army?
Mr. FoRms. I served for 31/2 years approximately.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then in approximately 1945 or early 1946 you returned to the practice of your profession?
Mr. FORDIs. That is substantially correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not certain I understood the date and place of your birth. Will you tell me that again.
Mr. FoRmDI. The date and place?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. Fonms. Did the recorder get that?
Mr. TAVENNER. I said I didn't. I presume the reporter did.
Mr. FORDIs. The date was July 21 of 1921. And you wanted the place, too
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3851 
Mr. FoaiIS. Kansas City, Mo.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever live in Minneapolis?
Mr. FomDIs. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You practiced your musical career then in Kansas City and here in California except such times as your work required you to go out on short trips. Is that correct?
Mr. FORDIS. That would be correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the organized group of the Communist Party composed exclusively or almost exclusively of musicians in the city of Los Angeles?
Mr. FORDIS. Is that the question, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. FoRmIs. The full question?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. FORDIS. I decline to answer that question, sir, and I would like to explain my reasons, if I may.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that he be permitted to state his legal grounds, and be confined to that.
Mr. MouLDEE. He has declined to answer and requested the opportunity to state his reasons for not answering. He clearly has that right under the law. I don't know what they are going to be, but he has the right.
Mr. FomDIs. Mr. Chairman, may I ask the chair a question? Without seeming to be impudent, and with no intention of being, there are some questions which I feel are in the category of, "Have you stopped beating your wife." Members of the law here on the committee, I believe, are familiar with this type of question. I would like to, if you permit me, give my reasons to this question.
Mr. MOULDER. You are entitled to give your reasons for declining to answer.
Mr. JACKSON. I would qualify that, Mr. Chairman, by saying he is entitled to give his legal reasons.
Mr. MOULDER. His reasons may be legal. I don't know. We don't know until he proceeds.
Mr. JAcKsoN. We have no way of knowing until he proceeds.
Mr. FoRnis. Mr. Tavenner has asked a question which today has very serious import because it has already been stated in the case of the Slochower decision and so on, and other decisions, a person who, for reasons as a sovereign of the United States, as a citizen of our country, has the privilege of not giving or giving, affirming or denying any questions relating to specific parts of the first amendment of the Constitution, which refer specifically to opinions, which refer to associations. These are, in essence, an invasion upon the rights of a citizen. Now, if I so chooseMr. SCHERER. Even the Slochower decision didn't say that.
Mr. FORDIS. If I so choose to refuse to affirm or deny, this is my privilege. It is your privilege and my privilege, as I understand it, unless counsel will tell me that I am wrong.
Mr. TAVENNER. As far as counsel is concerned, you are absolutely wrong when you go outside of the legal ground for refusal to answer. If the committee rules otherwise, of course, that is- 3852 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. FoRDIS. Is this senior counsel?
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed. (Representative Donald L. Jackson withdrew from the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. SCHERER. Yes, he is very senior. He tried the war crimes trials in Japan for the Government of the United States, and I could tell you a lot more about Mr. Tavenner's ability. He is very senior counsel. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. FORDIS. Of course, this enters upon an area where senior counsel and my counsel might, in the light of their legal knowledge, discuss their different opinions as to counsel's statement. However, I do not believe that this or similar committees-due to the fact that, if associations are asked of anybody, that I may or may not be an active member of a trade union or of Boy Scouts or Cub Scouts, I am not assured that at some future time that these organizations might be deemed subversive. I am not saying that you gentlemen are going to make this statement. But it might be possible because we know in our history that what was popular one time was unpopular another time.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, I object to this witness taking the time of this committee to give "some time in history" and so forth, and I move that he be confined to giving his legal reasons. That manifestly is not a legal reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I suggest that it might be of some value to announce that the committee is prepared to stay here to finish this work no matter how long the witnesses attempt to delay the proceedings.
Mr. MOULDER. Of course, we are not going to be made to appear ridiculous. I won't be intolerant, but we are going to proceed fairly in these proceedings. The objection made by the gentleman from California, Mr. Doyle, is sustained. Please proceed without giving us a long discourse on your interpretation of the meaning of the Constitution, but state briefly your reasons for declining to answer the question. If you are claiming the amendments as reasons for not answering the question, do so.
Mr. FORDS. In other words, Mr. Moulder, you are saying you are not going to give me the same privilege as the first witness in length of time. Is that correct
Mr. MoTLDER. Yes, you have had ample time.
Mr. SCHERER. There is a significant difference between this man and the first witness. The first witness answered counsel and the committee's questions. This man isn't answering. If he answers your questions instead of declining to answer, I will let him make a speech all day. But he isn't answering. He is refusing to answer. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. Foams. I don't intend to make speeches all day. I would just like to answer the question without interruptions, if I may.
Mr. DOYL. I am going to object to this witness making a speech. He has been here in the room and he heard Mr. Offner make the same COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3853 sort of remarks, and finally Mr. Offner was gracious enough to cooperate and give the first and fifth amendments as a basis for refusing to answer. Now if these are legal reasons, I am asking that he give them. If they are not, I object to his making a speech. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MOULDER. As you know, it is most difficult to preside as chairman of a committee of this sort when everybody wants to make a speech. I am not going to make one. I am not badgering you to try to encourage you to make one. So please cooperate with the committee by declining to answer, and state your reasons for declining to answer as briefly as possible, and cite the Constitution if you intend to claim it as your reason.
Mr. FoRDIS. In other words, we should be as objective without becoming subjective-we should be as objective about this as possible.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you decline to answer ?
Mr. FoRDIs. Now I decline to answer the question on the reasons as stated before, and also I decline to answer for reasons that this committee, although having stated that it did not come at this time to interfere with the union affairsMr. DOYLE. I object to this sort of a tirade against the committee.
Mr. FORMS. I believe-Mr. DOTLE. Just a minute. I am going to insist that you be bound by the same procedure that this committee has bound other witnesses to. I don't know what your counsel is advising you. He has the right to advise you only on your constitutional rights.
Mr. Foams. Mr. Doyle, what are you afraid of?
Mr. DOYLE. I am not afraid of anything.
Mr. MOULDER. Let's have order. Let me tell you one thing clearly, and then we will proceed in that order. You are being given a reasonable time to answer the question or to decline to answer. If you don't do so immediately you will be excused as a witness, and probably face a contempt proceeding. That is a danger and a risk which you are going to have to assume and take upon yourself.
Mr. FORDIS. Is this a threat?
Mr. MOULDER. It is not a threat. It is said in the spirit of advising you so that you might avoid placing yourself in that position. Certainly it is not a threat.
Mr. FORDIS. Now, to continue, if I may continue, this is an unfortunate time for the committee to have come to Los Angeles.
Mr. SCHERER. I move that the witness be excluded from the witness stand.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excluded from the room.
Mr. FORDIS. I stand on the fifth amendment in addition.
Mr. MOULDER. The officer will take the witness from the witness stand.
Mr. FORDIs. Thank you, gentlemen.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer in evidence a photostatic copy of a petition to participate in the primary election of June 1, 1948, by the Independent Progressive Party of California, at the end of which 3854 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA there is an affidavit over the signature of a person by the name of Sam Fordis, F-o-r-d-i-s, bearing date the 7th day of January 1948, showing that he circulated this petition in the area of Los Angeles and obtained the signatures. And a second petition of the same character with the same type of affidavit, bearing the date the 16th day of February 1948, signed with the name Sam Fordis. I ask that they be introduced in evidence and marked "Fordis Exhibits Nos. 1 and 2," respectively. (These two exhibits are similar to Roth exhibit No. 2, p. 3860, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. They are on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. MOULDER. It is so ordered.
Mr. MOULDER. Call your next witness, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Henry Roth.
Mr. MOULDER. Hold up your right hand and be sworn, please, Mr. Roth. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. ROTH. I do. TESTIMONY OF HENRY ROTH, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, BEN MARGOLIS 