Mr. MooRE. Sam Moore.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. Moon. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record 
Mr. POPPER. Martin Popper, 160 Broadway, New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Moore, will you state when and where you were born?
Mr. MOORE. I was born in Flushing, N. Y., in November 1904.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present place of residence 
Mr. MOORE. 444 Central Park West, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession? 303 304 COMMUNIioSM IN MOTION-PICTURE. INDUSTRY 
Mr. MooR. I am a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give to the committee, please, a brief statement of your educational training
Mr. MooRE. I went to grade schools all over the country-in Cam- bridge, Mass.; Bryn Mawr, Pa.; Madison, Wis.; Ann Arbor, Mich. I. went to high school 2 years in Ann Arbor, and finished my preparatory school work at Kent School, Kent, Conn. I went to the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and took my A. B. degree.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee a brief statement of your employment record since the time of the completion of your education ? (Representative Harold H. Velde left hearing room.)
Mr. MOORE. I worked in the advertising business in New York from about 1925 to 1930. In 1931, I became a reporter on the New York Herald Tribune under Stanley Walker. After that I became a radio writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the approximate date when you became a radio writer?
Mr. MOORE. I think it was toward the end of 1931. I was employed by the J. Walter Thompson Advertising Co. and worked for them until 1936. I worked for them in New York until 1934; then they sent me to Hollywood, and I worked there until 1936. In 1936, I left them to go with th.e William Este Agency. I left them in 1937 and have been a free-lance writer ever since. I wrote for radio until 1947. From 1942 to 1947, I wrote in collaboration a program called The Great Gildersleeve. I stopped radio in 1947 and came to New York because of a legitimate show that I was one of the authors of. I did one radio show in New York in the summer of 1949. In the autumn of 1949 Texas L'il Darlin' was produced on Broadway. I have done a little television since. (Representative Harold H. Velde returned to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand that you left Hollywood about 1947?
Mr. MOORE. No, sir. I left Hollywood just for the summer in 1949, and then I left again last summer and have been here since.'
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you first go to Hollywood ?
Mr. MOORE. In February 1934.
Mr. TAVENNER. While you were in Hollywood, were you a member of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. MOORE. I was an associate member of the Screen Writers' Guild for a very short time when I did work in pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you hold any position in the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. MOORE. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the period during which you were asso- ciated with the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. MOORE. I believe it was during 1937. SMr. TAVENNER. Just for the period of the 1 year, do you mean?
Mr. MOORE. Probably. I only worked in pictures about 6 or 8 weeks; and I don't think I kept up my membership in the Screen Writers' Guild after I went back to radio.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?  INDUSTRY 305 
Mr. MOORE. Hollywood Writers' Mobilization is one of the organiza- tions that this committee has classified as a subversive organization, and I decline to answer this question on the grounds it may tend to incriminate me, the privilege of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, as I understand, you decline to answer any question relating to the conduct of the business of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization? 
Mr. MOORE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your ground for refusal to answer questions relating to that organization ?
Mr. MOORE. The fact that although this organization-the fact that this organization, whether it is in that book or not, has been attacked by this committee and other groups as a so-called subversive group, and for me to answer questions about it, I feel would tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Radio Writers' Guild ?
Mr. MOORE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. During what period of time were you a member of that guild ?
Mr. MOORE. I have some dates on that. From about 1938 or 1939 until the present time, including the present time.
Mr. TAVENNER. What official positions have you held with the Radio Writers' Guild ?
Mr. MOORE. I served on the council of the western region of the guild in Hollywood from 1940 to 1943. I was vice president in charge of the western region in 1943 and 1944. I was national president of the guild in 1945 and 1946. And in 1947 and 1948 I served two more terms as western vice president. In 1949 I was reelected to the council of the western region. In 1950 I moved to New York and was elected to the council of the eastern region.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the Radio Writers' Guild support financially the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. MoORE. I have already declined to answer questions relating to the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and it seems to me this is another question of the same kind which I decline to answer for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the testimony of Mr. Richard Collins, one of the projects of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization was the dissemination of information relating to atomic energy, and to that end there was established within the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization a group known as the "Atomic Energy Commission." Were you affiliated in any way with the activities of the "Atomic Energy Commission" of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. MOORE. That is the same type of question as the other question. I decline to answer for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there a group within the Radio Writers' Guild that was interested in the dissemination of information of that same character ?
Mr. MOORE. I decline to answer-Will you repeat the question, please ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you read the question, please. (The question referred to was read by the reporter, as follows: "Was there a group within the Radio Writers' Guild that was interested in the dissemination of information of that same character?") 306 INDUSTRY 
Mr. MooRE. Could you make that question a little more specific?
Mr. TAVENNER. I could not help but overhear, from even at this distance, what appeared to be prompting of your answer about making it more specific. I do not believe that counsel should indicate to the witness what answers to make, but of course you are free, as the chairman will advise you, to confer with your counsel at all times.
Mr. POPPER. I object to the comment because it is inconsistent with the fact. There was no such statement made by counsel.
Mr. WOOD. The witness has a right to confer with his counsel at any time he desires.
Mr. POPPER. However, I would like my objection noted because it is contrary to the fact.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did not counsel make the statement to you, when I first asked the question, to ask that it be made more specific?
Mr. MOORE. He did not use the word "specific," no, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What word did he use ?
Mr. MOORE. I don't remember, but he didn't say that.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was the meaning of it, wasn't it?
Mr. POPPER. I object to that on the ground this constitutes legitimate advice of counsel.
Mr. WooD. The committee does not permit objections.
Mr. POPPER. I appreciate that, but the witness is being badgered about legitimate advice of counsel.
Mr. WOOD. The witness is merely being asked a question, and it is the view of the chairman that the questions asked are not a badgering.
Mr. TAVENNER. My question to you was whether or not there was within the Radio Writers' Guild a group which was interested in the dissemination of information relating to atomic energy?
Mr. MooRE. I still think it is a vague question.
Mr. TAVENNER. That would seem to me to be an easy question for you to answer.
Mr. MOORE. I consider it a vague and airy question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I will try to make it a little more specific for you. Were you interested, as a member of the Radio Writers' Guild, in the dissemination of information to the public relating to atomic energy ?
Mr. MOORE. As a member of the Radio Writers' Guild ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Either as a member or not as a member.
Mr. MOORE. It seems to me you are just trying to connect me again with this organization, Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, which you have declared or attempted to define as a subversive organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am only endeavoring to get such facts from you as I am able to get concerning your experience in Hollywood and the various organizations with which you were affiliated.
Mr. MOORE. I decline to answer the question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there an organization within the Radio Writers' Guild which interested itself in the dissemination of information relating to atomic energy?
Mr. MOORE. It seems to me this is the same type of question. I decline to answer for the same reason.
Mr. WALTER. Was he asked the question of whether or not he was a member of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; and admitted he was.  307 
Mr. POPPER. Do you mean Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Radio Writers' Guild.
Mr. MOORE. I understood he said Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. I may have misunderstood the question. You have stated you were a member of the Radio Writers' Guild and the various positions you have held in the guild ?
Mr. MOORE. Yes; and I am very proud of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. But you are unwilling to state to this committee to what extent they were active or interested in the dissemination of information relating to atomic energy? 
Mr. MOORE. I have declined to answer that question; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of a committee known as the Radio Advisory Committee of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization
Mr. MOORE. I decline to answer for the same reason.
Mr. WALTER. Before you get away from that, what was the name of that organization, Radio Writers'Mr. TAVENNER. Radio Advisory Committee of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. WALTER. Do you decline to answer that question on the ground that to answer it might tend to incriminate you?
Mr. MooRE. Yes.
Mr. WALTER. That organization has never been listed as a subver- sive, Communist, or Communist-front organization?
Mr. MOORE. The question was of a committee of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and the Mobilization has been classified by this committee as a subversive organization.
Mr. POPPER. If the chairman permits me to, I will be glad to refer you to the page.
Mr. WOOD. Let's have an understanding so that we may avoid fur- ther interruptions. Counsel is privileged at this hearing to advise his client, not the committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Moore, the official publication of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, known as Communique, in its March 1945 issue reported that the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization was planning a series of 26 radio plays regarding the problems of returning soldiers. Were you on a board of five charged with the responsibility of getting scripts approved and into production relating to that series of radio programs ?
Mr. MOORE. This is another question that would connect me with the Mobilization, and I decline to answer for the same reasons as stated before.
Mr. WooD. May I interrupt at this point, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Your refusal to answer the question a while ago was predicated on the statement you made that the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization had been classified by this committee as a subversive organization. I call attention to the fact that that statement is not borne out by the facts.
Mr. MOORE. Maybe it isn't this committee, but it is in the list issued by the committee in March. SMr. WooD. It was cited by the Attorney General of the United States. Would that fact alter the witness' position on answering the question?
Mr. MooRE. No, sir; it would not. 308
Mr. COMMUNISM IN TAVENNER. MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY As a member of the Radio Writers' Guild, were you active in procuring the use of a broadcast station, a radio station?
Mr. MooRE. Not that I recall. Could you make that question more specific?
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you interested in obtaining the approval of the Federal Communications Commission to set up a radio station in behalf of the Hollywood Community Club, Inc. ?
Mr. MOORE. I think I know what you are referring to, Mr. Taven- ner. I took part in a-may I see the book ? Are you referring to the Hollywood Community Radio Group, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. I suppose that is it; yes.
Mr. MOORE. That is listed on page 56 of this book as a subversive organization, and I decline to answer questions relating to it for the reasons previously stated.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Chairman, the witness has given several reasons for refusing to answer these questions, that they were vague and uncertain and that the organization about which they were asked was listed in this guide. I would like to get it clear, what is your ground for refusal to answer the question?
Mr. MOORE. The ground is the fear, my fear, that an answer to the question might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. VELDE. That is all. 
Mr. TAVENNER. There has been testimony before this committee by Mr. Richard Collins to the effect that the Communist Party was interested in the project of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization of disseminating information regarding atomic energy. To your knowledge, was there a like interest, or interest of any kind, exhibited by the Communist Party in the dissemination of the same type of information by means of radio, through the help of the Radio Writers' Guild or any groups within it?
Mr. MOORE. This question is the same type of question. I refuse to answer this question on the same grounds as before.
Mr. TAVENNER. That to answer the question might tend to incrimi- nate you?
Mr. MOORE.. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, I would like to get it clear, if I may: You have stated you belonged to an organization you say you are very proud of.
Mr. MOORE. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do I understand it is your contention that to answer "yes" or "no" to a question of whether, to the best of your knowledge, the Communist Party tried to use that organization, would tend to incriminate you ?
Mr. MOORE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Moore, do you know whether there was a group within the Communist Party known as the Radio Club of the Communist Party in Hollywood during the year 1944? Mr. MOORE. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds as previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Motion Picture and Radio Commission of the Los Angeles County Communist Political Association ?
Mr. MooRE. I decline to answer for the same reason.  309 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Moore, the American Youth for Democracy is an organization that was cited by the Special Committee on UnAmerican Activities on March 29, 1944, and by the Committee on UnAmerican Activities on April 17, 1947. Did you make any substantial contribution to that organization after it was first cited and with knowledge that it had been cited as a Communist Party front ? (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left hearing room.)
Mr. MooRE. I don't see the point of asking me about these one after another. I decline to answer that question also on the same ground.1 There are hundreds of organizations listed in your book, and there are millions of members who have been proud to be members, and this committee has made it impossible to answer this type of question with-i out the possibility of incrimination.
Mr. WALTER. DO you think the listing of these organizations has in anywise caused a decline of interest in the organizations and affected the membership ?
Mr. MOORE. I think the listing of such organization is an attempt to intimidate members and nonmembers from joining that organization. SMr. WALTER. Has it had that effect?
Mr. MooRE. I think it has tended to have that effect. I think, for example, your listing of a number of peace organizations was certainly not an encouragement to people -who organized for peace.
Mr. VELDE. Are you through ?
Mr. WALTER. No; I would like to follow it a little further. You think the release of the names of these organizations that purportedly are for the promotion of peace affected membership drives and perhaps affected the ability of the sponsors of those movements to raise funds?
Mr. MOORE. I don't know of my own knowledge, but I think it would be probable that that would be the result. The result naturally would be to frighten people away from making any kind of organized effort for peace.
Mr. WALTER. If that is what was accomplished, I think the committee has made a substantial contribution to peace in America.
Mr. MOORE. I don't know what you mean by "contribution." My idea is, peace is peace.
Mr. WALTER. Even if it means surrender and the peace of Alcatraz ? That is peace.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde, did you have any questions ?
Mr. VELDE. Yes. You stated an answer to various questions asked you would tend to incriminate you. Has the committee ever, to your knowledge, incriminated or caused incrimination of any witness who has come here and answered questions truthfully ?
Mr. MOORE. I don't know, sir.
Mr. VELDE. I can tell you definitely, if you don't know, that it has not and never will. That is all.
Mr. WooD. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at one time on the editorial staff of the Hollywood Quarterly, which was a magazine sponsored by the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. MOORE. This is a question in which the committee is tampering with the freedom of the -press. Hollywood Quarterly is listed also  INDUSTRY as a subversive publication by your committee, and I decline to answer this question for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were John Howard Lawson and Ed Dmytryk also on the editorial staff of that publication?
Mr. MOORE. Will you repeat that question ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I will strike "also."
Mr. MOORE. Thank you. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were John Howard Lawson and Ed Dmytryk on the editorial staff of the Hollywood Quarterly ? 
Mr. MOORE. I decline to answer for the same reason stated before. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time attend a meeting in 1945 to discuss what is known as the Duclos letter?
Mr. MOORE. I decline to answer this question for the same reason as previously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Moore, the committee has information that you were a member of the Communist Party in 1944 and 1945, and that you held a Communist Party card, registration card, bearing No. 47288 for the year 1945. Is that information correct? I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. MOREo.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party and are you a member now ?
Mr. MOORE. I decline to answer for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle. -Mr. DoYLE. Mr. Moore, with reference to Radio Writers' Guild, I think you volunteered the information that you were national president in 1945 ?
Mr. MOORE. Yes, sir.
Mr. DoYLE. And then that you were vice president a couple times, and very proud of your membership, and were elected to the council of the western and also the eastern region ?
Mr. MOORE. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. I have looked in the book to which you referred, both in the index, at page 155, and throughout this book I think you referred to as published in March of this year, and I don't find that organization listed. Is it your claim that it is listed ?
Mr. MOORE. No, sir. Radio Writers' Guild is a trade-union that is one of the best in the entertainment industry, and I am very proud of it. It is not in your book.
Mr. DOYLE. Didn't I understand that you refused to answer a ques- tion or two committee counsel asked you about the functioning of that Radio Writers' Guild in connection with atomic energy, if anything, and you refused to answer on the same ground you had before ?
Mr. MOORE. I believe I declined to answer a question that had to do with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. DOYLE. I misunderstood, then, counsel's question. May I ask you this, then: Did the Radio Writers' Guild, of which you were a member-I believe you said you still are?
Mr. MOORE. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DYLE. Did the Radio Writers' Guild have any committee which was interested in the dissemination of information about atomic energy?
Mr. MooRE. I don't recall any such committee; no, sir. INDUSTRY 311 
Mr. DoYLE. Did that Radio Writers' Guild make financial contributions to any organization which was interested in informing the American people on any subject in connection with atomic energy ?
Mr. MooRE. That question I decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. DOYLE. If the organization about which I am asking you is not listed in any way, why would anything it did be, in your judgment, apt to incriminate you ? It is not listed as subversive group. I am not asking you about any other group. I am asking you about this one group.
Mr. MOORE. You are asking a question that it seems to me is an at- tempt to tie me up with other organizations. this reason. I decline to answer for 
Mr. DOYLE. Maybe you are trying to anticipate what I am going to ask, but you might be mistaken, you see.
Mr. MOORE. I will stand on my answer.
Mr. DoYLE. I am not trying to trap you. I am interested in trying to get your philosophy as to why you think answering a question as to the Radio Writers' Guild would incriminate you when it is not listed in any way in any subversive group. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. MooRE. Counsel has given me some kind of legal advice I don't understand, but I stand on my answer.
Mr. DOYLE. Do I understand that you heard your counsel and still don't understand him ?
Mr. MooRE. I heard the finish.
Mr. WOOD. Any further questions, Mr. Doyle ? 
Mr. DOYLE. One more question. Do I understand your position to be substantially this: That, if you were asked any question by counsel or by one of the members of the committee with reference to any subject as to the activities or objectives or purposes or functioning of any group listed in this book published by the committee on March 3, 1951, you would refuse to answer on the grounds that it might incriminate you ?
Mr. MOORE. I guess that is substantially right; yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, the reason I asked you that was not to trap you. I-notice you have refused to answer any question that was asked you about any organization or committee listed in this book. May I ask you this question: Do I understand then that you refusal to answer my question about the Radio Writers' Guild, which you have stated you this question: Do I understand then that your refusal to answer in 1945, is because you feel that your answer to that-question might directly or indirectly lead you into being asked about the functioning of any of these groups that are listed as subversive in this book
Mr. MooRE. Yes, sir.
Mr. 'DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Moore, in the course of your preparation of scripts for radio, television, and the theater, did you ever do anything on the atomic bomb or the horrors of it ? Did you write anything about the use of the atomic bomb ?
Mr. MOORE. Not that I recall; no, sir.
Mr. WALTER. That is all. 312  
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Velde?
Mr. VELDE. I have no questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. WOOD. I notice you declined to answer some questions with reference to the activities of the Hollywood Quarterly on the ground that it appeared in this guide the committee has issued. The Hollywood Quarterly has been cited as a Communist-front organization by the California Committee on Un-American Activities in 1948. Does that information alter your position on answering the questions concerning its activities ?
Mr. MOORE. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. Any further questions, counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Is there reason why this witness cannot be excused from further attendance? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I know of none, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WOOD. You are excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Harold Buchman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Buchman, will you hold up your right hand and be sworn. You solemnly swear the testimony you give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I do. TESTIMONY OF HAROLD BUCHMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, R. LAWRENCE SIEGEL  