Mr. GREENE. Sidney Greene, G-r-e-e-n-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. VOGEL. Mortimer Vogel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of what bar?
Mr. VOGEL. Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Greene ?
Mr. GREENE. I was born in New York City on May 17,1913.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a resident of Los Angeles?
Mr. GREENE. I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Los Angeles ? 
Mr. GREENE. On and off since 1940.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation or profession ?
Mr. GREENE. Musician. 3738 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, briefly what your formal educational training has been?
Mr. GREENE. I was educated in the public schools of New York. I attended City College of New York. At the age of 8 I started the study of the violin and music. At the age of 11 I won a citywide competition at Carnegie Hall. At the age of 14 I won a scholarship to a graduate school of music, one of the youngest ever to do so. In 1931, on a scholarship, I was sent to Europe, where I studied in France. I graduated Juilliard in 1932. And in 1936 I went to work for the t. Louis Symphony. In the summer of 1937 I worked with the New York Philharmonic. I joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic in 1941. I enlisted in the Navy in 1942, and I served for 31/2 years. Upon discharge, from the time I was discharged I have been working in the studios, from 1946 approximately. I have attended the University of Southern California and have been attending the University of California at Los Angeles. As a coincidence, one of the courses I have been taking is a course in American history, and it was prophetic that in this course we studied other periods of suppression. And I refer to the Salem witch hunts of 1692 and the period around the Alien Sedition Acts of 1798.
Mr. MOULDER. May I interrupt to inquire who was your instructor or professor in that course?
Mr. GREENE. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds of the first and fifth amendments. I don't see that is pertinent, to involve the name of the instructor of a university into these hearings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you had any other courses of instruction since 1946?
Mr. GREENE. Excuse me a moment, sir. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Tavenner, could you be more specific? That question is a little too general.
Mr. TAVENNER. I can't make it more direct than that. I just asked you if you have had any other courses of instruction.
Mr. GREENE. As far as music is concerned, Mr. Tavenner, students of music never stop studying.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were speaking of studying history. I was not speaking of music at that time. I am speaking of studies.
Mr. GREENE. Well, studyMr. TAVENNER. Have you studied Marxist theory with any group ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment, and I would like to state my reasons for doing so.
Mr. MOULDER. The amendment speaks for itself.
Mr. GREENE. I would also like to include the fifth amendment in declining to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the information available to the committee, you are in a position to have some knowledge of an organized group of the Communist Party between 1946 and 1948 composed almost exclusively of members of the musicians' profession. Do you have any knowledge of such activities ? (The witness confers with his counsel.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3739 
Mr. GREENE. I decline to answer that question, sir, or any other questions similar to it for the following reasons: the reasons I am going to state are in relation to the Constitution as it affectsMr. MOULDER. May I say, as for myself personally, I would rule that when a witness claims the protection of the first and fifth amendments or any reason of the Constitution, he could be given an opportunity briefly to state his reason in connection therewith. But most of the witnesses will prolong it by giving lengthy lectures about their reasons insofar as it enables the witness to condemn the committee. However, the majority of the committee do not look at it as I do in that respect. Therefore, I would have to urge the witness merely to state his reasons for not answering.
Mr. GREENE. I must respectfully submit that I intend to be brief, with your cooperation and the committee's cooperation in not interrupting.
Mr. MOULDER. Until an objection is made I will so permit. I will state it that way.
Mr. GREENE. Thank you. I decline to answer that question or any other questions similar to it for the following reasons: It has been stated that the purpose of this committee is to investigate subversive propaganda, to help in the formulation of information to be used in drawing up legislation. Now this committee and its predecessors have been functioning since 1938, and in all this time this committee has proposed no legislation to justify its avowedMr. SCHERER. Wait a minute.
Mr. MOULDER. That is not true.
Mr. JACKSON. May . statement be made for the record at this time?
Mr. MOULDER. The chair recognizes Congressman Jackson of California.
Mr. JACKsoN. This committee has during the course of the past few years suggested remedial legislation in over 40 instances. Of that number, all except 2 or 3 of the recommendations have been accepted by the House of Representatives and incorporated into existing law or into regulations of a Government agency. Let's have the record absolutely straight. So far as the remedial legislation aspect of the work of this committee is concerned, the committee has a number of recommendations now pending before the House of Representatives which will undoubtedly, in many instances, be incorporated into law.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, I am going to object to this man reading a speech. We have not allowed any other witness to read a speech. His very first statement is false information. I am going to object to this witness being treated any differently than any other witness.
Mr. JACKSON. I support the gentleman.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well; the objection is sustained. As I understand, your refusal in declining to answer is based upon the first amendment.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Chairman and members of the committee, I am not reading from a speech. I am not a practiced public speaker, and, 7743566-pt. 7-7 3740 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA because of the nature of this hearing, I have had to put my thoughts down so that I would be certain to remember all that I have thought of within these last 4 or 5 weeks.
Mr. MOULDER. We don't intend to argue with you about that. As I understand, you decline to answer, giving as a reason for refusing to answer, the first amendment of the Constitution? Is that correct?
Mr. GREENE. That is correct, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Let's proceed with the next question.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Chairman, my name has been used in the publicity concerning this committee, and I think it only fair that the public and the members of my community be permitted to hear what I have to say as regards this publicity that was given me, unsolicited publicity.
Mr. DOYLE. May I say to the witness, your very first statement was absolutely false. Why should we let you sit there in the witness chair and make false statements about Congress?
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Doyle, these are my convictions.
Mr. DOYLE. That is a matter of fact that you were talking about.
Mr. GREENE. I may be mistaken. I may be mistaken, Mr. Doyle. If so, I have been corrected by Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKsoN. As long as we are on corrections, let's make the second correction. Any publicity which attended mention of your name in any publication must have come from you. It was not released by the committee.
Mr. GREENE. It was stated on the day that the news item appeared in the press that the names of the subpenaed musicians would not be published until the day of the hearing. On the very next day 22 names appeared in the newspapers.
Mr. JACKSON. I want to ask specifically whether any release has been made by the committee. It is a matter I intend to inquire into further. It has been the policy of this committee-as far as I know, the policy has been followed-not releasing any names to the press. You can check yourself with the members of the press as to that policy. However, it will be inquired into further to determine the facts of the case.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Jackson, I can only judge by what has happened.
Mr. MOULDER. Now you are being given an opportunity to appear before the committee to redeem yourself by refuting what you claim to be the inference that you might be a member of the Communist Party or engaged in subversive activities. You can do so very clearly and effectively by answering questions which will be propounded to you by counsel. Let's proceed with the examination of the witness. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. As the record now stands, he has relied on the first amendment only.
Mr. MOULDER. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think he should be directed to answer.
Mr. GREENE. If I may be permitted to answer the question that was originally directed to me, Mr. Chairman, I would like to continue my reasons for declining to answer that question.
Mr. MoULDER. You can readily understand what I mean by this. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3741 You could probably speak on those reasons until midnight tonight.
Mr. GREENE. That is not my intention, Mr. Chairman. If I am not interrupted I venture to say this will take me perhaps three-quarters of a minute.
Mr. MOULDER. You understood my attitude by the statement I made earlier about giving lengthy speeches, and objection has been made by the committee members, and, therefore, I will have to sustain the objection and ask that you state any other reasons you may have other than the first amendment for declining to answer. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. It is my conclusion, Mr. Chairman, that, in view of the past history of this committeeMr. MOULDER. That is the very thing which we will not tolerate. I am very patient and understanding with everyone and will be respectful to every witness who appears before the committee. But I do not wish to sit here and be harangued, criticized, and insulted by witnesses who are subpenaed by the committee.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Chairman, if you are under the impression I seek to harangue the committee you are mistaken. I just want to state my answers that I have had to prepare in anticipation of certain questions.
Mr. JAcKsoN. Mr. Chairman, I would suggest, in the interest of speed, that the witness be given a minute to complete his answer.
Mr. GREENE. Thank you, Mr. Jackson. 
Mr. MOUDER. That was my original intention.
Mr. JACKSON. I will agree in the interest of speeding up the process.
Mr. DOYLE. I will withdraw my objection in favor of 1 minute.
Mr. MOTLDER. Very well, proceed. 
Mr. GREENE. The conclusion that I have drawn, gentlemen, is that the purpose of this committee is not to seek information actually, but it is to act as an instrument of repression, create an atmosphere of fear through the means of economic blacklist, in order to achieve conformity, to do away with difference of opinion, criticism, and free exchange of ideas. Now culture cannot flourish in such an atmosphere. I have devoted my entire life to the pursuit of culture, and I would have no part in any effort to destroy it. This committee, by its efforts, has created an atmosphere of fear which in time, if it is permitted to continue, will result in an arid cultural wasteland of our Nation. Outstanding people in our community, such as Mrs. Chandler and a good number of the subpenaed witnesses, have made a substantial contribution to the effort as regards cultural exchange. Now these efforts are being undermined by the very nature of this committee's work. I further refuse to answer this question, gentlemen, on the basis of the fifth amendment to the Constitution, and I specifically refer to that part of the amendment which states that no one may be compelled to be a witness against himself. Such a question is an infringement of my rights under that amendment. I might remind this committee that there are many respected individuals who agree with this concept of the fifth amendment, and I refer to the majority decision that was just recently handed down- 3742 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. JACKSON. I suggest that the minute is well exceeded, and that the committee has certainly done its part to permit the witness to express himself. I shall object to any further discussion of the matter.
Mr. MOULDERn You may cite the case you are referring to.
Mr. GREENE. Thank you.
Mr. MOULDER. What was the case ?
Mr. GREENE. The case was the Slochower decision where a Mr. SlochowerMr. MOULDER. Just cite the case.
Mr. GREENE. Slochower case.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well. Proceed with the next question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Greene, did you, at the suggestion of the Communist Party, take part in any planned registration in the Independent Progressive Party in 1946 or 1948 ?
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Tavenner, I refuse to answer that question on the grounds I have already cited.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you, at the instance of the Communist Party, take part in any plan to circulate petitions?
Mr. GREENE. I refuse to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment. Is it understood, gentlemen, that anyMr. MOULDER. To expedite the proceedings, if you state for the same reason it will be for the reasons previously claimed.
Mr. GREENE. This is understood by the committee?
Mr. VOGEL. Both the first and fifth.
Mr. MOULDER. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a member of the West Valley Section of the Independent Progressive Party ?
Mr. GREENE. I refuse on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Communist Party now?
Mr. GREENE. I refuse on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer in evidence, for identification only and to be retained in the committee's files, the following documents: Affidavit of registration of Sidney Greene, to affiliate with the Independent Progressive Party, bearing date the 9th day of August 1948, which I request be marked "Greene Exhibit No. 1"; and affidavit of registration of Sidney Greene, to affiliate with the Independent Progressive Party of California, bearing date the 10th day of April 1950, which I ask be marked "Greene Exhibit No. 2"; affidavit of registration of Sidney Greene, to affiliate with the Independent Progressive Party, bearing date the 21st day of January 1951, which I ask be marked "Greene Exhibit No. 3"; and affidavit of registration of Sidney Greene to affiliate with the Independent Progressive Party of California, bearing date the 5th day of February 1952, which I ask be marked "Greene Exhibit No. 4"; a petition of the Independent Progressive Party circulated for signers, at the bottom of which is an affidavit bearing the date the 1st day of February 1948, in the name of Sidney Greene, showing that he was the circulator of the petition, which I ask be marked "Greene Exhibit No. 5"; and also petition No. 8042 of the Independent Progressive Party of California, signed on line 15 by Sidney Greene, bearing the date the 24th day of October 1947, which I ask be marked "Greene Exhibit No. 6"; and also a photo- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3743 static copy of a membership card in the West Valley Club of the Independent Progressive Party, which I ask be marked "Greene Exhibit No. 7." (Greene Exhibits Nos. 1-4, affidavits of registration, are similar to "Waddilove Exhibit No. 1," p. 3664. Green Exhibit No. 5, petition and affidavit, is similar to "Waddilove Exhibit No. 3," p. 3667.)
Mr. MOULDER. I would like to ask the witness this question: You have heard counsel refer to all of the exhibits mentioned, Nos. 1 to 7, inclusive. Do you wish to have the opportunity to examine any of the documents and exhibits mentioned and to explain or deny any of the contents contained in any of the documents ?
Mr. GREENE. May I please consult with counsel? Excuse me. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. If Mr. Tavenner wishes to present me with these exhibits I will then answer to'his questions. I would likeMr. TAVENNER. I would be very glad to present them to you and ask you whether or not the signatures of your name are your signatures.
Mr. GREENE. I would like to ask Mr. Tavenner before answering the question whether he is trying to impugn my patriotism for circulating a petition, for being a member of a recognized political party.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the instance of the Communist Party, yes, I am making that assertion, in light of the testimony that the committee has had here today, identifying you as a member of a group in the Communist Party which was directed to do the very things which these documents show were done by you. Will you examine them and state whether or not you circulated the petition which bears your affidavit at the end of it? It is "Exhibit No. 5."
Mr. MOULDE. At this point may I make a statement in connection with your last question, responded to by Mr. Tavenner. There isn't a member of this committee, or Mr. Tavenner or any member of the staff or anyone connected with us who denies the right of petition or to be affiliated with a legitimate political party. The question was somewhat vague. You take the position that it was a legitimate party. You are now being given the opportunity to clear yourself, to refute any inference which you referred to, by testifying in connection with these facts as to whether or not the Communist Party did dominate, or whether or not you had any knowledge of the Communist Party domination and influence, or whether or not you acted as an agent in so circulating the petition. You can give that explanation and clear yourself of any wrongful inference, and also clear any question concerning your patriotism or loyalty. (The documents were handed to the witness.) (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Tavenner, and you, Mr. Chairman, are assuming many things I have not stated. I refuseMr. MOULDER. The question probably should be rephrased to ask, Did you have any knowledge or information at the time this petition was circulated of any Communist Party subversive activities being connected with the petition? 3744 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. I refuse to answer that question and Mr. Tavenner's question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Will you examine the other documents handed to you, and state whether or not, in the instances where your name appears, if they are your signatures? Examine each one beginning with "Ehibit No. 1."
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Tavenner, do you want an individual answer to each one? Or one answer to all?
Mr. TAVENNER. You asked to see the documents and wanted to examine them. 
Mr. GREENE. I refuse to answer your question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments, to any and each of these documents.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you did not want them presented to you at all. Did you?
Mr. GREENE. I wanted, yes, I did, to see the documents.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine each one of them, please and state whether or not you signed your name to those documents?
Mr. GREENE. My answer is the same, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. As to each document?
Mr. GREENE. As to each document.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes; I have one. Were you in the hearing room this morning when Mr. Waddilove testified?
Mr. GREENE. I was, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you hear him, in answer to my question(The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask my question, counsel, and let the witness hear my question, if you will. You heard me ask him whether or not the Communist Party took the initiative to organize these petitions and circulate them in order to create, if they could, the IPP as a Communist front. Did you hear me ask that question and subsequent questions?
Mr. GREENE. I did, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. You heard Mr. Waddilove's answer that the IPP actually was a Communist front. Did you hear him answer that way? Was he telling the truth or was he telling a falsehood
Mr. GREENE. I will not dignify this individual, Mr. Doyle, by making any comment on his testimony, and I refuse to answer that question on the same grounds I have already stated.
Mr. DoYLE. We are often confronted with criticism that we don't give people an apportunity in a hearing to defend themselves or to answer statements about the Communist Party, and I assume from your statements to us that you might like to answer this quetsion. I want you to understand that I am one of the Congressmen from California who believes absolutely in the right of petition and to the effect that we should not question the political allegiance of a duly, legally constituted political party in California. But our questions to you, sir, in this field go to the point that not only did Waddilove testify, but we have many, many others who tes- COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3745 tified heretofore that the IPP was in fact known to the circulatorssuch as you-of these petitions as a Communist front. Now if we knew that these petitions were not being circulated by you to qualify the IPP as a legally constituted party in California, but, in fact, as a Communist front, then I question your patriotism at that time. I want to say, too, that you talked about culture a minute ago. In my book we don't need the Soviet culture in this country. We just need our own American culture. When it comes to patriotism and loyalty to the Stars and Stripes we need that in preference to the culture that I think you were talking about. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.) (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. VOGEL. There is a question pending, I believe. Isn't there a question? 
Mr. DOYLE. No. He and I were just having a little conversation.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Doyle, under different, noncompulsive circumstances, I would be more than happy to discuss this with you. I don't think this is the proper atmosphere or proper place.
Mr. VOGEL. Do I understand the other question was withdrawn, the question propounded by Mr. Doyle ? If there isn't any, for the sake of the record, let it show.
Mr. MOULDER. Is there a question pending from you, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. I will withdraw it. He and I understand each other.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well.
Mr. SCHERER. Mr. Greene, how are you presently employed ? 
Mr. GREENE. As of today, Mr. Scherer, I have been employed at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer as a violinist.
Mr. SCHERER. How long have you been employed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ?
Mr. GREENE. Five years, Mr. Scherer. I might state that I don't expect to be tomorrow.
Mr. SCHERER. Up to this point you have been employed steadily for 5 years? 
Mr. GREENE. That is so. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHEERE. I believe before that you played with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic; did you not?
Mr. GREENE. Yes.
Mr. SCHERER. You have been steadily employed for quite some time?
Mr. GREENE. Yes, which I think is a reflection on my ability, sir.
Mr. SCHERER. You said you were blacklisted.
Mr. GREENE. Not as of today, sir. I hope it doesn't take place. I would like very much to remain a musician and practice my profession.
Mr. DOYLE. I would like to see you remain. In the first part of your testimony you said under oath that you had been blacklisted. I made a note of that.
Mr. GREENE. I don't think the transcript would corroborate that.
Mr. DOLE. It will show you stated, "I am a blacklisted musician." I wrote it down. 3746 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. ScHERER. I wrote the same thing down. I want to know when you were blacklisted. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Scherer, from the past experience that people have had and witnesses have had with this committee, it has unfortunately been true that theyMr. SCHERER. NowMr. GREENE. I will answer you, Mr. Scherer-that they have been blacklisted when they refused to cooperate with this committee. I am hoping that this practice is going to change.
Mr. SCHERER. Who does theblacklisting? Who blacklists you?
Mr. GREENE. Well, the employerMr. SCHERER. Let us get it straight first. You have not been blacklisted as you said you were in your opening testimony?
Mr. GREENE. I didn't say that, Mr. Scherer. You are confusing this with the testimony of the previous witness.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well, let us go back to the beginning of the testimony of the witness.
Mr. SCHERER. He said it.
Mr. DOYLE. Let's have the reporter read it.
Mr. GREENE. I think Mr. Scherer is confusing the testimony of the previous witness. A VOICE. It was a previous witness. I heard it.
Mr. MOULDER. We will suspend the proceedings, and the reporter will read the beginning of the testimony of this witness. (Whereupon, the reporter read from his notes as follows:) "Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation or profession? "Mr. GREENE. Musician."
Mr. DOYLE. Then I am in error, and wish to acknowledge it. I see here my note is under Milton Kestenbaum instead of under Greene. I extend apologies.
Mr. SCHERER. You said musicians had been blacklisted just now.
Mr. GREENE. Many witnesses have been; musicians, actors.
Mr. SCHERER. Who blacklists them?
Mr. GREENE. The employer through the pressure that this committee exerts upon them.
Mr. SCHERER. Can you give us the names of any who have been blacklisted? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. I refuse to answer that question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments. I refrain from naming names, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask you to direct the witness to answer. Here is a charge that employers have blacklisted witnesses.
Mr. GREENE. There are transcripts of the records of the hearings of this committee of many people who have been compelled to appear before it who are no longer practicing their profession as a direct consequence of being subpenaed before this committee, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. Is it a direct consequence of their being subpenaed before this committee or is it because their Communist Party membership was disclosed? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3747 SMr. GREENE. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Scherer, because it would incriminate me, and I refuse on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. MOULDER. Were you born and reared in this country as a natural-born American citizen?
Mr. GREENE. I was.
Mr. MOULDER. Are you married ?
Mr. GREENE. I am, sir. 
Mr. MOULDER. How long did you serve in the Armed Forces?
Mr. GPEENE. 31/ years.
Mr. MOULDER. In the event of a conflict or war between Russia and this country would you again willingly, sincerely, conscientiously serve in the Armed Forces of this country ?
Mr. GREENE. I would defend my country against any aggressor.
Mr. MOULDER. In the event of a war you would fight for your country?
Mr. GREENE. I would, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Right or wrong? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Chairman, you asked me in the event of war against this country. I stated that I would fight against any aggressor against this Nation.
Mr. SCHERER. Suppose, in your opinion, this country was the aggressor? Would you fight for this country? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. I noticed you qualified your statement by saying that in any event you would fight if this country were not the aggressor.
Mr. GREENE. My own feelings, Mr. Scherer, are that these Congressmen, myself, we all good Americans are going to fight for peace. They are not concerning themselves with war. 
Mr. MOULDER. May I proceed with my questions. As stated by Mr. Scherer, the question that comes about is that you might, in the event of war between Russia and the United States, arrive at an opinion that we were the aggressor and not Russia; and it might be my opinion that we were defending our country from aggression.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Chairman, this question is very hypothetical.
Mr. MOULDER. You are bitterly complaining about the possibility that you might lose your- 
Mr. GREENE. I don't think hypothetical questions have a place in these hearings. 
Mr. MOULDER. You are complaining about the possibility that you might lose your position of employment. I think it is a shame and a pitiful situation that because a man of your talent, your background and your ability as a great artist and a musician-and you and musi- cians such as you have made great contributions to our country in that connection-that merely because you come here and appear before this committee you lose your employment. That is a deplorable situation which I oppose, and all of us on this committee discourage and Soppose. Please. We will have no more demonstrations. 3748 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Now you have an opportunity to clear and redeem yourself, and you have been reluctant so far to take advantage of this opportunity. That I regret very much.
Mr. GREENE. I question, Mr. Chairman, the need or the basis for stating that I have to redeem myself. I don't agree.
Mr. SCHERER. Were you a member of the Communist Party during the time you were in the Army?
Mr. GREENE. I have answered that question.
Mr. MOULDER. No; you didn't answer that question.
Mr. GREENE. I refuse to answer that question on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. MOULDER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party or a member of any subversive activity ?
Mr. GREENE. I refuse for the same reason, sir. And before-Mr. DOYLE. May I just make this one observation: We as American Congressmen are in this position: Our United States Congress has declared, on several occasions, that the Communist Party in the United States is part and parcel of an international conspiracy. That is clear, isn't it? You know that, don't you, Mr. Greene? I am sure you know that. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. DOYLE. Not only that but our highest courts have declared, time and again, that the Communist Party in America is a part and parcel of the international Communist conspiracy to eventually take over economic and social control of the world.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Doyle, the highest courts have also judged that the practice of imputing a sinister meaning to the exercise of a person's constitutional right under the fifth amendment-they have condemned this practice.
Mr. DOYLE. All right, we agree with the Court's decision. We follow it. But my point is this: When you talk about patriotism we are in this position: Congress has declared the Communist Party to be an illegal conspiracy against the American form of government. Our courts have so declared. And yet the American citizens claim that we as American Congressmen are doing an injustice when we, at the direction of the United States Congress, hold these hearings to try and uncover the Communist conspiracy which our Congress and which our courts have found to exist, in order that we might better legislate to protect our Nation and our children against the Soviet-Communist conspiracy. That is what you are doing when you try to confuse this committee. We are bound by a patriotic duty and an official duty to the American citizen to follow the instruction of the United States Congress. You and I also know that the Communist Party in California today instructs its members to plead the amendments; right or wrong, to plead them. I know that is the instruction. I am not imputing anything to you. I am just saying that we also know a few things.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Clark also stated, Mr. Doyle, a witness-Mr. DOYLE. We have the full text of that decision.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. ClarkYou have had your opportunity, Mr. Doyle, to tell me what you think. I think it only fair to permit me to answer you. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3749 
Mr. MOULtER. I think you are right.
Mr. DOYLE. Go ahead. I have argued with you.
Mr. GREENE. I am reading from the Herald-ExaminerMr. DoLms. What date? What decision?
Mr. GREENE. The Slochower decision, Mr. Doyle. April 10, 1946.
Mr. DOYLE. That is the New York school case, April 9, 1956.
Mr. GREENE. That is right, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DoYLm. We are familiar with that decision.
Mr. GREENE. Mr. Clark stated: The privilege against self-incrimination would be reduced to a hollow mockery if its exercise could be taken as equivalent either to a confession of guilt or a conclusive presumption of perjury. A witness may have a reasonable fear of prosecution and yet be innocent of any wrongdoing. The privilege serves to protect the innocent who otherwise might be ensnared by ambiguous circumstances. 
Mr. DOYLE. We agree with that. That is the law. But the rank and file of the Communist Party in California do not agree with that. They choose to disobey the pronouncements of the Supreme Court except when they choose to.
Mr. GREENE. I think the decision speaks for itself.
Mr. DOYLE. Sure it does. We agree with that.
Mr. SCHERER. I can't -say that I agree with Mr. Justice Clark. I will put myself of record.
Mr. MOULDER. Let us have order in the hearing room, please. I only have one more question to ask you. If you were granted immunity by this committee, would you then answer the questions that have been propounded to you?
Mr. GREENE. That, too, is a hypothetical question.
Mr. MOULDER. You will wait until you come to that bridge before you cross it; is that your answer?
Mr. GREENE. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Chairman, on the basis of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused. Call the next witness.
Mr. TAVENNE. Mr. Paul Powell.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you solemnly swear the testimony which you are about to give before this committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you, God?
Mr. POWELL. I do. TESTIMONY OF PAUL POWELL, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ARTHUR A. BROOKS, JR. 