Mr. RUmN. My name is Stanley Rubin; R-u-b-i-n.
Mr. WHEELER. When and where were you born? 
Mr. RuiTN. I was born in New York City October 8, 1917.
Mr. WHEELER. Give us your educational background. 
Mr. RuBIN. I went to public schools in New York City, to junior high school in New York City, and to DeWitt Clinton High School. I finished high school in January of 1933. In September of 1933 I came out to California to go to the University of California in Los Angeles.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you graduate from UCLA? 
Mr. RUBIN. No; I did not get a degree from UCLA. I went 4 years. At the end of my fourth year I was still short a few units, but I had to go to work.
Mr. WTHEELER. What year did you cease to be a student?
Mr. RuIN. June 1937.
Mr. WHEELER. How have you been employed since June 1937? 
Mr. RuBIN. I worked for a short while as a cub reporter and general flunky for the Beverly Hills Citizen News, and then became mail boy or messenger room worker at Paramount Studios. I worked as a cub reporter and flunky for the Beverly Hills Citizen News, roughly, through the balance of 1937 and possibly into 1938. I then went to work at Paramount in the mailroom as a messenger boy. I worked in the mailroom for Paramount a little less than a year. During this time I was writing fiction-I should say I was trying to write fiction. I finally sold a magazine article on my mailroom experience to the Grover Jones magazine. This was a west coast publication put out by a screen writer named Grover Jones. Released by the committee. Stanley Rubin was sworn as a witness by the court reporter. 910 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA Through this story and through Mr. Jones' help I came to the attention of the Paramount story department and when they offered me work as an outside reader I left the mailroom department. That was sometime in late 1938. S S Do you want me to go on?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes; up to the present time.
Mr. RUBI. I then started work as an outside reader, working mostly for Paramount Studios, but recommended by them I also did some outside reading for Samuel Goldwyn Studios and for RKO. I then was called in to an interview at Universal Studios for a possible job in the story department. The story editor was a man named Marshall Grant. I got the job. I worked as a reader and an assistant to Mr. Grant probably for a little less than a year, at which time Mr. Grant was promoted from story editor to a producer. When Mr. Grant became a producer he offered me a job of working as a writer for him. This was my first entrance into screen writing. I wrote a good number of pictures for Umversal, working not only for
Mr. Grant but also for several other producers whose names I have given you in a statement previously, and I would be willing to discuss if you so desire.
Mr. WHEELER. That won't be necessary. Late in 1940 I was offered a higher paying writing
Mr. RuBI. job at Twentieth Century-Fox, and went to work there as a free-lance writer. From that time on I was in the freelance writers' market, taking jobs by the assignment. In 1941 I worked mostly for Columbia Pictures. In the fall of 1941, being unemployed, or, rather, being without a studio on assignment, I collaborated with a radio writer named Jerome Lawrence on a speculative piece of original material,.which we sold to Columbia Broadcasting System for a Christmas show. Since the show was to be done out of New York, I went East to work on it. And I came back to California shortly after the New Year and sought employment again, and finally found it back at Columbia Pictures. When I completed my work at Columbia Pictures I enlisted in the Army Air Forces. That was September 10, 1942. I enlisted as a private in the Air Forces. I got out of the Army as a first heutenant early in 1946.
Mr. WHEELER. What is your present status with the Army?
Mr. RUIN. I am a first lieutenant in the Army Air Forces Reserves.
Mr. WHEELER. Now, while in the Army, what type of assignments did you have?
Mr. RUBIN. I was assigned by the Air Force to its motion-picture unit, and my general work consisted of doing orientation, training, and combat films. I worked at many airfields around the country. For example, Randolph Field, in Texas, Langley Field, in Virginia, and Scott Field, in Missouri, Mitchel Field, in Long Island.
Mr. WHEELER. While in the Army did you have access to classified or confidential information?
Mr. RuIN. Yes, I did. At one point I volunteered for an overseas assignment which was classified. That consisted of an aerial COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA, 911 mapping of Alaska and North Pacific flight routes. For completing this assignment successfully I was given . personal commendation by the Air Transport Command. Subsequently I also volunteered for a highly secret mission in which I was transferred to the first B-29 group training in the United States. My job to move in with these men, live with them, train with them, fly with them. And finally I went to Saipan with them to participated in their strikes at Truk, and Iwo Jima, and their first B-29 strike at Tokyo. All of this I recorded on film for the Air Forces. Finally, upon my return to the States, I edited this film into one unified picture. The Air Force was pleased with this picture, which was titled "Target Tokyo," and released it to theaters throughout the Nation. Again I was personally commended by Headquarters, Army Air Forces. To clear me for this mission, I was investigated by the local FBI, ONI, Service Command Intelligence, and home-town police. I assume the results were satisfactory, as I continued in confidential work.
Mr. WHEELER. Now, after your release from the United States Army, did you continue your employment in the motion-picture industry ?
Mr. RUBIN. Yes, I did. I was offered a job again at Universal Pictures by the same man I had worked for there originally, Marshall Grant. I went to work for him as a writer-associate producer, and worked there roughly 9 or 10 months, at which time Universal Pictures were taken over by International Studios. When I left Universal I was back in the free-lance market. I started speculative writing again, doing radio scripts with a radio writer I had met in the Army named Joe Malone, and doing pictures with a screen writer named Louis Lantz, whom I had met at Columbia [Pictures] just before the war. Malone and I sold many radio scripts to the Whistler, Theater of Romance, Hollywood Theatre of the Air. Lantz and I worked for Monogram Pictures and then for Columbia Pictures. Sometime late in 1947 or early in 1948 1 had an idea for a film service for television, which was then just beginning to take very rapid strides forward. Lantz collaborated with me on this television idea and we turned it into a pilot script. I then went back to Marshall Grant, who in the meantime had formed his own independent picture company called Sheg, Inc., for production advice. Grant introduced me to a short-subject director named Sobey Martin, and to a man of finance named Norman Elzer. Then Martin, Lantz, Elzer, and myself incorporated our own company, Realm Television Productions, Inc. We made our first film. It was shown to the American Tobacco Co., which liked it enough to offer us a contract to make the first 26 half-hour films on television, to be sponsored by a national company. It took us a year and a half to make these 26 pictures for the American Tobacco Co. That takes me to the summer of 1949, at which time, seeking employment, I was hired again as a writer by Mr. Sid Rogell, head of production at RKO. After one script for Mr. Rogell, he offered me a job there as a producer, which I accepted. 912 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA I worked as a producer for RKO for a little under a year, at which time Wald & Krasna came in and asked me to join their unit. I worked in the Wald & Krasna unit as an associate producer for approximately a year. Then Twentieth Century-Fox offered me a better contract as a full producer, and in June of 1951 I moved over to Twentieth CenturyFOx.
Mr. WHEELER. What screen credits do you have, Mr. Rubn?
Mr. RUBIN. Shall I start at the beginning and go right through?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes, start at the beginning.
Mr. RUBIN. My pictures include both in solo work and in collaboration. South To Katanga, Flying Cadets, Mister Dynamite, Bombay Clipper, Six Lessons From Madam Lazonga, Where Did You Get That Girl, Lucky Legs, Two Senoritas From Macao. Do you want producer credits, too, separately?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes. 
Mr. RsBIN. Macao, and my producer credits include Little Miss Big, Slightly Scandalous, The Narrow Margin, Behave Yourself, My Pal Gus, and Destination Gobi.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Rubin, who is your agent?
Mr. RUBIN. My agent is Famous Artists.
Mr. WHEELER. How long have you been associated with Famous Artists ?
Mr. RUBIN. I have been associated with Famous Artists, I would say, a little more than 3 years, but the man in Famous Artists who represents me, named Ray Stark, was my agent even before I was with Famous Artists. He was in partnership with a company called Levee-Stark. When he moved from that company to Famous, I went with him.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you had any other agents besides Mr. Stark?
Mr. RuBIN. Yes. As I called it, my first agent in town was Ned Brown; at that time he was an independent agent. I was also subsequently represented by the Sam Jaffee office, and by the Allen Berg office.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Rubin, information has come to the attention of the committee that you were in attendance at meetings of the Communist Party. Is that true?
Mr. RUBIN. No; it is not true. I did attend what were described to me as classes; another term for which I have now heard is a study group. That was supposed to inform me on the Communist Party and on Marxism and Soviet Russia.
Mr. WHEELER. When did this occur?
Mr. RUaIN. This occurred in the spring-no, I am sorry. I was first told or asked about them in the spring of 1942, but to the best of my recollection I started attending either late in the spring of 1942 or early in the summer of 1942.
Mr. WHEELER. Will you explain fully how you became associated with this group ?
Mr. RUBIN. In 1941 I was working at Columbia Pictures and I met the writer in the office next to me.
Mr. WHEELER. What was his name?
Mr. RuBIN. His name was Louis Lantz. We weren't working together; we just shared adjoining offices and became friendly. This COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 913 acquaintance developed into friendship through the course of discussing story problems and through social evenings. Sometime in the spring of 1942, after I had become friends with Mr. Lantz, he surprised me one evening by bringing up the subject of the Communist Party. Mr. Lantz expressed the belief that communism was the answer for any man of liberal views, and he asked me if I was interested in it. I told him that I had never thought about it, that I knew nothing about it, that I really knew nothing about it, and that besides, despite my liberal instincts, I was not political. The matter rested there for a week or two and then on another evening Mr. Lantz brought it up again. This time he asked me, since I admitted total ignorance about communism, would I be interested in attending a series of discussions or classes which would inform me on the Communist Party, Marxism, and Soviet Russia. I thought it over and finally said that I would be interested. There were many reasons behind my accepting this idea of attending classes on the various aspects of communism. These reasons being both emotional and growing out of the lopsided attitude and atmosphere of the times. In the first place, at that time Soviet Russia was our war ally, accepted from the White House down. I was interested in what had been going on in that country and I was curious about what had been going on in that country. In the second place, my earlier revulsion at the Soviet-Nazi Pact had been replaced by an admiration for the courageous stand of the Russian soldiers which they were making against the Nazi armies. As a Jew, my sympathies naturally went out to everyone and anyone fighting Hitlerism. Finally, I was interested in educating myself on the subject which was part of the world I was living in. The Communist Party was a so-called legal party, about which I knew nothing. I was 24 years old at the time, highly idealistic and intellectually curious. I was eager to hear and debate new ideas, and I decided there was nothing to fear. If I didn't like the classes I would cease to attend. As things turned out, I was disgusted and disillusioned after only 3 or 4 sessions of the class, and I never went back.
Mr. WHEELER. What caused your disillusionment
Mr. RuBIN. The general conduct of the classes. I had been told that this was to be a discussion group in which we would discuss various aspects of the subjects named. Instead of discussion, however, I heard diatribes. Instead of open debate I got closed edicts. I had gone, ready to discuss anything, but before very long I learned the discussion group was not ready to discuss anything. The best example I can remember was when the leader of the discussion group, a screen writer named Mitchell Wilson, brought up the subject of Trotskyism.
Mr. Wilson painted the followers of Trotsky as liars, assassins, and villains incarnate. Anyone trying to get a grasp of true communism,
Mr. Wilson stated, had better make sure that he had no Trotskyites among his friends or acquaintances. Now, I knew practically nothing about Mr. Trotsky and I certainly held no brief for him, but the idea that a supposedly American politi- 914 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA cal party would try to dictate with whom I was to associate and to whom I was to talk was totally reprehensible and inacceptable to me.
Mr. WHEELER. How many meetings of this study group would you say you attended?
Mr. RUBIN. Roughly 3 or 4.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall where they were held ?
Mr. RUBIN. Yes. They were held at the home of a screen writer named Mitchell Gordon.
Mr. WHEELER. Was Mitchell Gordon at any of these discussions?
Mr. RUBIN. To the best of my knowledge he was not.
Mr. WHEELER. Was Mr. Lou Lantz present? 
Mr. RuBIN. No. Mr. Lantz was not present.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall who was present ? 
Mr. RUBIN. The only one I definitely recall was the leader of the group, Mitchell Wilson. The others I hadn't known before and I have never seen since. And after a lapse of 11 or more years I just don't remember any of them.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know Meta Reis? 
Mr. RuBIN. Yes, I know Meta Reis.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall whether or not she was present?
Mr. RUBIN. To the best of my knowledge, Meta Reis was not present.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know Oscar Saul?
Mr. RBIN. I know Oscar Saul.
Mr. WHEELER. Was Oscar Saul present?
Mr. RuBIN. No, Oscar Saul was not present.
Mr. WHEELER. You are stating that categorically.
Mr. RUBIN. Perhaps I had better say to the best of my knowledge. I stated categorically, feeling that if Oscar Saul had been present-I have known him as a screen writer, or I have seen him at Guild meetings or at parties, social affairs since.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know Ed Rolfe?
Mr. RUBIN. I met Ed Rolfe at the home of Lou Lantz, either at a social evening or dinner.
Mr. WHEELER. Do yOU know Bess Taffel?
Mr. RUBIN. The same applies to her. I met her at the home of Louis Lantz.
Mr. WHEELER. How many individuals would you say attended this study group?
Mr. RuBsi. My best recollection is roughly 5, 6, or 7 at the most.
Mr. WHEELER. You have testified that Mr. Lantz was instrumental in getting you to attend these study group meetings.
Mr. RuBIN. Yes, that is correct.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you discuss your leaving the discussion group meetings with Mr. Lantz?
Mr. RUBIN. Yes, I did.
Mr. WHEELER. You did?
Mr. RuBIN. Yes, I did. After the meeting which particularly annoyed and disillusioned me, when I decided I wasn't going back to another class, I told Mr. Lantz my reactions to the kind of totalitarian viewpoint and discussion that had been going on, citing the reference to Trotsky that I mentioned above, and told him I was not going back to another class. Never subsequently did Mr. Lantz himself ever try to persuade me to go back to the classes. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 915 
Mr. WHEELER. What was Mr. Lantz' reaction?
Mr. RUBIN. Mr. Lantz just accepted it.
Mr. WHEELER. What did he say?
Mr. RUBIN. Mr. Lantz actually tried to discuss it with me. He tried to point out that this was not totalitarianism, but merely, in his opinion, an effort at organization or at organizational discipline. I told him I couldn't accept this argument, that it wouldn't change my mind.
Mr. Lantz then accepted my argument, and as I have stated, made no further attempt to persuade me to return to the classes.
Mr. WHEELER. Did Mr. Lantz ever directly ask you to become a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. RuIN. No, he did not.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you reach any conclusion in your own mind regarding Mr. Lantz' political affiliation?
Mr. RUBIN. Well, as I have said before, I attended no meetings to compare, and therefore never saw Mr. Lantz at any meeting of the Communist Party. I have no direct knowledge of Mr. Lantz being a Communist or of Mr. Lantz having been a Communist. The only thing I can say to you, if you want it, is that I assumed in my own mind, since Lantz said to me it was his belief that communism was the best answer for a man of liberal viewpoints, that at that time he either was a Communist or was sympathetic to the Communist viewpoint.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Rubin, I would like to repeat a sentence you just testified to. "He tried to point out that this was not totalitarianism, but merely, in his opinion, an effort at organization or at organizational discipline." What conclusion did you reach when Mr. Lantz stated to you that this was just a matter of accepting organizational discipline?
Mr. RunN. Let me make this clearer. I believe, or I should say I think I can make this clearer. Mr. Lantz did not say to me that I was to accept organizational discipline. He was explaining, I assumed, a theory or his viewpoint of communism and the Communist Party, and this viewpoint was that to understand communism you had to accept certain channels, certain precepts of Marxism.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Lantz then had accepted the discipline ?
Mr. RUBIN. I don't know. I will answer that, to the best of my ability.
Mr. WHEELER. He was espousing the theory that discipline should be accepted by Marxists or Communists?
Mr. RuBIN. Yes, he was.
Mr. WHEELER. You don't recall anyone else who was in attendance at these meetings?
Mr. RuIN. No, I don't.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you attended any meetings of the progressive caucus of the Screen Writers' Guild, and if so, where were these meetings held?
Mr. RUBIN. I can't honestly say. I attended meetings-the only specific meetings I recall of the progressive caucus-and there may have been others-that I attended were held usually just before the Screen Writers' Guild regular meeting; either at the hotel where the meeting was to take place or in the very room, or outside the very room the meeting was to take place. 916 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. WHEELER. What was the purpose of these meetings of the progressive caucus?
Mr. RuIN. The purpose of the meetings of the progressive caucus was to discuss the agenda that was coming up at the subsequent Screen Writers' Guild meeting and to try to organize everyone who attended the progressive caucus meeting into a single viewpoint on the subjects that were to come up.
Mr. WHEELER. Who were the leaders in the progressive caucus? Explain what was the progressive caucus, please.
Mr. RuBIN. The progressive caucus to me was just what its name said. I took it to be a group of writers within the Screen Writers' Guild, whose viewpoints on union activities were liberal, and who would work for these viewpoints.
Mr. WHEELER. Who were the leaders!
Mr. Runen. I can't answer that. I don't know who the leaders of the progressive caucus were.
Mr. WHEELER. How many individuals were members of the progressive caucus?
Mr. RurB. That is a very difficult question to answer, because when I went to a meeting of the progressive caucus, on the various occasions when they asked me to come, the attendance varied enormously.
Mr. WHEELER. From what to what?
Mr. REBIN. From, let's say, 15 people up to as high as, let's sayI don't know-40, 50 people.
Mr. WHEELER. Who is "they"? Who asked you to go to these meetings?
Mr. RuEns. I have to think back on that. I cannot say definitely who asked me to go to these meetings. I will try to recall to the best of my ability how some of these things came about. In one instance it might have been a phone call. In another instance I may have received a mimeographed letter or sheet which stated what the progressive caucus was going to discuss at its meeting before the next guild meeting, and asking me to come. Now, these mimeographed sheets occasionally were signed by members of the Screen Writers' Guild, but I honestly don't remember who signed them.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you remember any specific subject which was discussed?
Mr. RumI. It was always the current working business of the guild that was discussed. And I was by no means a regular attender of the progressive caucus. As I have explained or tried to explain in a statement I have submitted, when they would inform me by phone or by mimeographed letter of a subject in which I agreed with their viewpoint, which was also expressed in that phone call, I would attend the meeting and try to help them on that point in the subsequent Screen Writers' Guild meeting discussion or vote. When I disagreed with the point involved, I did not attend the progressive caucus. I know for a fact that the negative was far more frequent than the positive, but, nevertheless, I did attend several progressive caucus meetings.
Mr. WHEELER. How closely have you followed the investigation here in Hollywood, being conducted by the committee?
Mr. RuBIN. Average closely. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 917 
Mr. WHEELER. You are familiar then with the great number of writers who have been identified as members of the Communist Party?
Mr. RuBIN. I am familiar, I should say, with the ones whose names have appeared in the newspaper, in the main, or with people I have been acquainted with who have.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you say the percentage of people in attendance at the progressive caucus meeting was largely made up of subsequently identified members of the Communist Party
Mr. RuBIN. I would say that many of the people named were present at progressive caucus meetings; that is, at that time they had not been named. But subsequently, when I discovered their names, they had been present at the progressive caucus meetings. But I would not say, for example, that they were preponderant, necessarily preponderant at those meetings. For example, the only way I can state it is if there were 40 members present at a meeting, to discuss a subject that was coming up, my guess now would be, say, 25 or 30 percent of the people there were subsequently named.
Mr. WHEEILE. You testified you left this study group in 1942.
Mr. RuBIN. That is correct.
Mr. WHEELER. Since leaving this group, have you been approached by anyone to resume your association with them
Mr. RUBIN. Yes, I was. This happened after I was released from the Army Air Forces in 1946 and had gone back to work at Universal Pictures. One day, to the best of my knowledge, in mid-spring of 1946, I received a phone call. It was from a woman whose name I had never heard before, and if she gave it to me over the phone or to my secretary-because I had never heard it-I paid no particular attention to it, and I do not remember it now. However, this woman over the phone asked me if I would consider joining a new evening study group. I told her emphatically I would not, and hung up the phone.
Mr. WHEELER. In recent years have you had any close association with Mr. Lantz ?
Mr. RUBIN. Yes, I have. Again-and this does not attempt to undermine the friendship-the association has been sporadic, but, nevertheless, it has been a fairly close friendship.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you ever discussed the Communist Party in recent years?
Mr. RUBIN. Yes, I have. Mr. Lantz, as I recall it, got out of the Army sometime in the spring of 1946. When I saw him after that I told him about this phone call I had received. I told him also that I had flatly turned the woman down, and I remember discussing the incident with him. I was particularly pleased at that time to find that Mr. Lantz agreed with what I had said to this woman and with what I had done. And to the best of my recollection the gist of Mr. Lantz' conversation to me at that time was that he was no longer in sympathy with communism or the Communist Party.
Mr. WHEELER. This was in 1946 ?
Mr. RUBIr. That is correct.
Mr. WrHEELER. Subsequent to 1946, have you and Mr. Lantz had any discussions? 918 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. ERUIN. From the time of that conversation in 1946 until a few days ago Mr. Lantz and I had no discussions about the Communist Party at all.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you have a discussion a few days ago?
Mr. RUBI. Yes, we did.
Mr. WHEELER. What was the nature of this discussion?
Mr. Rwran. Well, when the. studio informed me of certain items that had been listed against me, including one which stated that I was known to have been a Communist Party member, and asked me to answer these charges, I went about the business of answering them. In preparing an answer to the items given me by my employer, I went into my files and records, and talked to people, to refresh my recollection, so that I could prepare a statement under oath, which 1 did do, which I have delivered to my employer and a copy of which I have given to you, Mr. Wheeler. In that connection I went to see Mr. Lantz. I felt that I had done nothing whatsoever that was wrong, and I went to see Mr. Lantz to tell him that I was going to make a full statement of the study group classes I had attended and that this would necessarily involve my telling who had asked me to these classes. I wanted Mr. Lantz to understand what I was doing, and I also wanted him either to come with me or on his own to cooperate with the House Committee on un-American Activities. Again, at this conversation, Mr. Lantz reiterated that he had long been out of sympathy with Communism and the Communist Party, but that he felt he could not cooperate with the House Committee on un-American Activities because it would involve what he called informing. I disputed the use of the word "informing." I said to Mr. Lantz that while testifying was certainly not a joyous task, I felt that when loyalties clashed, the higher loyalty had to take precedence; and in this case I felt that loyalty to friends had to give way to loyalty to our country and its urgent needs for security. This I felt involved cooperating with the House Committee on un-American Activities. SMr. Lantz simply did not agree with this, and the conversation ended.
Mr. WHEEER. Mr. Rubin, have you ever been connected with the Writers' Congress?
Mr. RUBIN. To the best of my knowledge, no. Now, I know that in the list of items that the studio gave me, as charged against me, there was one which stated that I was part of a panel on training films, sponsored by the Communist Party front, the Writers' Congress, in 1943. My first reaction to this was that I had no recollection of it whatsoever. I then proceeded to check the item. I called Professor McGowan's office at UCLA, when I learned that that was where the congress was held, and I was informed by that office that as my name did not appear on the list of speakers, apparently I did not participate. I then checked it even further, and I discovered that I could not have participated in this congress because at the time it was held I was at Army Air Forces Cadet School in Miami, Fla. Therefore, the item is wrong.
Mr. WHEELER. A directory issued by the People's Educational Center for the winter term of 1947 lists you as an instructor. Is that correct? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. RuBIN. Yes; that is correct. 919 I did instruct for one semester at the People's Educational Center.
Mr. WHEELER. Who asked you Give the story. 
Mr. RUBIN. I was asked to instruct on the craft of writing screen plays by a screen writer named Robert Lees. This invitation came by a phone call, in which I asked Mr. Lees what the People's Educational Center, of which I had never heard, was. He told me that it was essentially a night school for adults who could not afford regular professional school tuition, and asked if I would donate my services in teaching screen writing. I agreed to do this. Never at any time in the conversation with Mr. Lees or subsequently at the school itself was the subject of the Communist Party mentioned or brought up, or was any discussion of communism itself ever conducted in my presence. I don't know what the other instructors or other classes talked about. I do very definitely know that in my classroom we talked simply about the craft of writing motion picture screen plays. I had no knowledge at the time that the People's Educational Center was in any way connected with the Communist Party.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you know that it was known as the Los Angeles Labor School prior to the time it became the People's Educational Center?
Mr. REuBI. No; I did not. I have never heard that name before.
Mr. WHEELER. When did you quit? 
Mr. RUBIN. When the sponsorship of the People's Educational Center came into question, and when I saw for the first time that it was linked with the Communist Party, then I left the school and refused to teach there another semester. I have never had any conversation or association with anybody connected with it since.
Mr. WHEELER. According to the People's World, page 5, May 12, 1949, it lists you as a speaker before the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. Is it true that you spoke at this meeting ?
Mr. RuBIN. I had no recollection of speaking at this meeting. But since I checked at the UCLA library, the People's World edition that reported this incident, and since I find they have words put in my mouth, I must assume that I did speak there. This was when?
Mr. WHEELER. May 12, 1949, as reported in the People's World.
Mr. RumIN. At that time I was a producer of the very first nationally sponsored TV film show, and TV itself was the hottest subject in show business. I recall being asked all the time to appear, for example, at the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences meeting, to tell to other people interested in this growing industry my experiences as a socalled pioneer in TV. I accepted several of these invitations, because I was anxious to publicize my own work and my American Tobacco Co. show. In checking the People's World at the UCLA library, I noticed that according to them what I said at this meeting was to argue in favor of the importance of sponsorship and network backing in the making of television shows. 920 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. WHEELER. In other words, private enterprise?
Mr. RUBIN. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you ever a member of this organization? 
Mr. RUBIN. I didn't know, and my attorney, Mr. Gang, asked me to check my records on this. I went over them very thoroughly. I could find no evidence of having belonged to this organization nor could I find any evidence of having belonged to organizations which I now know were either stemmed out of this group or were affiliated with it, namely, the Progressive Citizens of America and the Independent Progressive Party.
Mr. WHEELER. You have submitted to the committee the list of your donations from 1946 through 1952. I notice in 1948 a contribution of $3 to the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of Arts, Sciences, and Professions. Would this be a contribution or perhaps could it be a payment of dues for membership ?
Mr. RUBIN. I can't answer that. I made every effort to check this particular list of donations, including the effort of tracking down and talking to the current office of the above organization. The only answer they would give me was that all records had been destroyed and they could give me no information. I am at a loss to specifically identify that $3 donation.
Mr. WHEELER. According to our information, Mr. Rubin, you signed the amicus curiae brief on behalf of John Howard Lawson and Dalton Trumbo. Is that correct?
Mr. RUBIN. That is correct.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall who listed your signature?
Mr. RUBIN. No; I do not. Petitions of that nature were circulated at luncheon tables in the commissary or passed from office to office at the studio.
Mr. WHEELER. During that time, what was your position in regard to the indictment and conviction of Lawson and Trumbo following their contempt citations before the House Committee on Un-American Activities ?
Mr. RUBIN. I did not agree in any way whatsoever with the political viewpoint of these men under indictment for contempt. But I signed the amicus curiae brief because it was my understanding that signing it did not mean you had to be in sympathy with the political views of the men involved. To me, signing it was simply an American act of signing a document concerned with getting these men as complete and thorough a hearing as possible.
Mr. WHEELE. Do you recall signing the nominating petition on behalf of Albert Maltz for the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. RUBIN. I do not recall signing this petition. But because it was listed again among the items charged against me, I contacted the Screen Writers' Guild and I was told by the guild that my name does appear on the Maltz' petition, dated October 1949.
Mr. WHEELER. This, I believe, was after the conviction of Albert Maltz for contempt of Congress. It was quite evident that during that period of time in 1949 that Mr. Maltz had been a member of the Communist Party. Were you in accord with having a member of the Communist Party on the executive board of the Screen Writers' Guild? COM1VIUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 921 
Mr. RuIN. . No; I was not. But I was in accord with the idea that the guild itself ought to vote on this, and that the best way for the guild to vote on it was by putting Mr. Maltz' name up. I felt this was something that should come up on the guild floor and be discussed and recognized.
Mr. WHEELER. What is your present-day attitude regarding the Communist Party ?
Mr. RuBIN. The same as it was when I left the study group in 1942. I started attending the study group because I was totally ignorant of the Communist Party. In very short order I learned enough about it to disagree and to disapprove of it thoroughly. My learning on the subject since, my knowledge through the newspapers of Soviet Russia's conduct in world affairs since, its aggressive nature and the ludicrous switches of American Communists, as identified in the newspapers, as they swing to and fro with the thoughts and activities of Soviet Russia, all of these things have only further substantiated the judgment I made in 1942.
Mr. WHEELER. We have just discussed what might be termed as a front record. Do you believe that this front record of yours indicates sympathy with the Communist movement?
Mr. R BIN. No, I do not. I believe-and in my own mind I know-that these items have grown out of a natural liberal instinct inside myself, an instinct which always sought fair play and equality of opportunity. I never knowingly participated in any group which was Communist or Communist front. But I must assume, from things which I have learned about things I signed or groups I occasionally worked with, that my very liberal instincts made me usable to these groups. And these groups I now know are Communists.
Mr. WHEELER. I would like for the record to show that Mr. Rubin has made available to the committee his contributions or donations from 1946 through 1952. This list discloses 68 separate contributions to various organizations and only one organization cited is a Communist front. This organization we have previously discussed, which is the Hollywood Independent Citizens' Committee of the Arts, Sciences and Professions.
Mr. Rubin, do you have anything else you would like to say for the record?
Mr. REBIN. Mr. Wheeler, I have given a copy of my sworn statement to you and to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and to my employer. I can only state to you, as I advised my employer and the FBI, that I am not now and never have been a member of the Communist Party, and that I am ready to answer any questions at all times. Any time you desire my cooperation, I will make myself available.
Mr. WHEELER. All right, Mr. Rubin. The committee will be most interested in what you have said here today. (Whereupon the interrogation of Stanley Rubin was concluded.) 31747-53-pt. 5-- INVESTIGATION OF-COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA-Part 5 THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1953 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. EXECUTIVE STATEMENT 1 An executive statement given at 11:45 a. m., March 12, 1953, at room 1109, Statler Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif. Present: William A. Wheeler, investigator. TESTIMONY OF SOL SHORT 