Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Hayden ?
Mr. HAYDEN. March 26, 1916, Montclair, N. J.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present place of residence?
Mr. HAYDEN. 10731 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles 24.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation?
Mr. HAYDEX. Actor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please state for the committee your educa- tional background, just briefly? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, I went to public schools in Montclair, N. J., up until the time I was 10 years old. After that we started moving around, and I finished about half of my second year high school at various places in New England, and then quit and went to sea.
Mr. TAVENNER. How old were you when you went to sea ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Fifteen. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Fifteen? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean, you "went to sea"
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, I simply left home and started working on ships, and worked 7 years sailing vessels, fishing boats, and so forth.
Mr. TAVENNER. You followed that occupation for 7 years?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. That was my trade.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time did you become master of a ship? 
Mr. HAYDEN. When I was 21 I finally got a master's license and took command of a ship and started making long voyages. 
Mr. TA ENNER. During that period of time did you become ac- quainted with a Capt. Warwick Tompkins ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. I met him when I was 14, in Boston, Mass. He had a schooner and I wanted to go to work on it, but he said I was too young. I never got to know him too well personally at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. After the completion of your experiences at sea, when you became ship master, what calling did you follow ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Another fellow and I tried to operate a schooner. We didn't have much success. We lost the ship, finally. I was broke and in New York, and through accident I met a producer with Paramount and made a test and got a contract May 1, 1940, as an actor.
Mr. TAVENNER. And how long did you follow that occupation?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, ever since, except for the war years. I left Hollywood in the fall of 1941 and returned to Hollywood under contract in the spring of 1946, so I was away for 5 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you were in Hollywood under your first contract between 1940 and 1941?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee how you obtained your first contract with Paramount?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, I was pretty much of a fluke. I had never given a thought to going into the acting profession, but the seafaring  129 INDUSTRY thing was washed up, and I simply met a correspondent in Boston who knew a producer, and he told the producer about me, and he contacted me in New York and made a test, a very bad test, but it got me a contract with Paramount and I went to work as an actor.
Mr. TAVENNER. While you were on the west coast serving under this first contract, was Capt. Warwick Tompkins on the west coast also ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. He had at that time, I believe in 1938 or 1937, he had shifted his base of operations from Boston to San Francisco, therefore he was in San Francisco in 1940 when I first got out there. I felt kind of lost in Hollywood, not really being an actor by inclination, and one time when I was feeling particularly low I decided to pay him a visit. I went to San Francisco and saw him. He at that time, or previously, had become, I believe, an open and avowed Communist. He made no bones about it. He talked about very little else, and he started to deluge me with propaganda.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a Communist at that time?
Mr. HAYDEN. No. It had never entered my head. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall meeting any other persons at that time who you either knew then or have found out since were members of the Communist Party, through your connections with Captain Tompkins? 
Mr. HAYDEN. On one of those visits, I believe probably that it was in 1941, while he was in San Francisco living on his ship, he said he wanted to introduce me to what he called, and I quote, "an old warrier in the class struggle," "Pop" Folkoff. I met him at a luncheon. I thought he was a retired tailor at that time. What he was, I don't know to this day. Who else I may have met that.year, I don't remember too clearly.
Mr. TAVENNER. During your first contract in Hollywood, did you join any particular unions or groups 
Mr. HAYDEN. I joined the Screen Actors' Guild, as every actor does. That was all. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the way in which Captain Tompkins went about consulting with you regarding communism? little more in detail about that. Tell us a 
Mr. HAYDEN. All right, sir. If I may change the word, I wouldn't say he consulted with me. I think he recognized I was at a peculiar stage in my life. I was sort of betwixt and between. The sea had always been my calling. This was now denied me, or I had denied myself it. I was feeling restless and dissatisfied in Hollywood. He used the device of talking and talking and asking why I didn't read more. I had never thought in political terms at all. That was an- other world, which I am not particularly proud of today.
Mr. TAVENNER. As I understand, your work in Hollywood was interrupted by your service during the period of the war?
Mr. HAYDEN. That it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us the circumstances under which you left Hollywood ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. But before doing that, have you been engaged in the production of any particular movies prior to your leaving Hollywood ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. I made two pictures. I had only been in Holly- wood 2 weeks when I was cast in second lead in Virginia, and a short while later in Bahama Passage. 130 INDUSTRY All during the summer of 1941 I was churning inside, thinking about the war. I would like to claim, but I can't claim, I knew this country was in danger, but I knew something was going on, and I wanted to get in it. In August 1941-I have the date here so I can give it to you exactly-it was September 15, 1941, I went to the heads of Paramount and said I would like to break my contract and leave for an indefinite length of time. They wanted to know why. I didn't know what to tell them. I said I didn't want to act, I didn't know what I wanted to do, I just wanted to leave. So I did leave. I went east. I contacted Colonel Donovan, who was then Coordinator of Information. I knew him through his son, who had sailed around the world with me in a schooner. He said he was setting up an organization in which men would be needed to train American troops, or volunteers, because this was prior to Pearl Harbor, in guerrilla warfare, and one of the men thought it a good idea to go to England or Scotland. I went to Scotland and trained with the Argyl and Southerland Highlanders 3 months, went to England, went to a parachute school, broke my ankle on the sixth jump, and came back to the United States. I was unable to continue with the training because of my broken ankle, and I did not want to be placed in some administrative capacity, so I went to the Elco Boat Works in Bayonne, N. J., and worked with test crews. Then I was offered a commission as ensign in the Navy, which I declined because I thought I should have a higher rank, since I had been master of ships. I thought I could operate a schooner to the West Indies, because of the shortage of cargo vessels.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that during the period when the waters in that area were infested with German submarines?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think there were quite a few down there, yes. So I went to the west coast, bought a half interest in a schooner, and hauled freight for the War Shipping Administration through the late summer and fall of 1942. This was rather a lucrative thing, really.
Mr. TAVENNER. How lucrative was it?
Mr. HAYDEN. If things went smoothly and efficiently, without any trouble, which was not all of the time, we stood to gross between $8,000 and $11,000 per voyage. We were taking detonators and explosives, the theory being it was better to put them on a small vessel, so if it was lost it wouldn't make much difference, rather than put them with the cargo on a large ship. In October of that year I met with a bunch of marines in the West Indies, and it entered my head to enlist. I sold the schooner, went to New York, enlisted, and went to Parris Island. That started another phase. Shall I continue?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, I would like a full statement of your record.
Mr. HAYDEN. I went through boot camp at Parris Island. At that time two men were selected out of each company for OSS at Quantico. I changed my name to John Hamilton. I changed it because I wanted to get away from Hollywood as much as possible. When I was in boot camp there seemed to be a good deal of curiosity about Hollywood. I changed my name. I was commissioned as second lieutenant. I went back to OSS. I don't know the exact date that the Coordinator of Information became OSS.  INDUSTRY 131 The OSS shipped us first to Cairo. We were supposed to go to Greece, but we were shipped to Bari Italy. I went to Bari, and then began a long term of duty with the Yugoslav partisans there.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the general character of your work with Partisans of Yugoslavia?
Mr. HAYDEN. It varied a good deal. They claimed they wanted supplies. The first assignment I had, the first day I arrived in Bari, was to coordinate the handling of a fleet of 28 or 30 schooners. Two weeks later I was placed in charge of the port at Monopoli, Italy. We built up the staff and operated these schooners across the Adriatic. I don't remember the exact dates, but we would frequently go off on reconnaissance expeditions along the coast, along the mainland, trying to get new routes. We got up to Trieste on one trip. Along about the middle of springMr. TAVENNER. Let me interrupt a minute. Will you go back and try to fix the date when you began your assignment at Bari and took over control of the port of Monopoli?
Mr. HAYDEN. I would say that was the 1st of December, the first week in December, let me say.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of what year? 
Mr. HAYDEN. 1942.
Mr. TAVENNER. And then try, as nearly as you can, to coordinate the narrative with dates.
Mr. HAYDEN. All right, sir. I would say we were in Monopoli 6 weeks to 2 months, and during that period of time I made 2 or 3 reconnaissance expeditions over into Yugoslavia.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of those ?
Mr. HAYDEN. To find a more efficient route of supplies to the Parti- san forces in the interior, to get the supplies through the German blockade to the forces fighting in the mountains. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That means you had to pass a German sea blockade as well as a land blockade ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, it did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And your work was behind the German lines ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, it was, particularly later on when we were work- ing in the interior. At that. time we were operating along the periphery of the coast; more or less. Before I got in the work on the interior, I was put in command, told to take a small fishing boat and operate it across the Adriatic. We could carry 5 to 6 tons of supplies, medical and other supplies, into Albania, islands off the Greek coast, and Yugoslavia. I think we made 18 or 20 trips before the E boats patrolling the coast really got wise to what was going on, and it became unhealthy. That operation was abandoned probably early in the summer of 1944. The next step seemed to be to supply them by air, so we were flown in to various places in Bosnia, in Slovenia-I beg pardon. We never could get into Slovenia by air, so we were ordered to march into Slo- venia. We had guides and they would take us through swamps where there was no liaison, and we tried to lay out an airfield to bring supplies through. . Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you continue in your work with the underground in Yugoslavia ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Until late in November of that year, when I was sent home for a 30-day leave in the States. 8 1 595-51-pt. 1-6 132 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period when you operated with the underground in Yugoslavia, will you tell us just how close your relationship was with the leaders and the rank and file of that movement?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, of course, being a very junior officer myself, I was a second lieutenant at that time, most of us were lieutenants, we didn't actually come in contact on an operative level with the so-called brass. We established a tremendously close personal feeling with these people. We had enormous, I would say unlimited, respect for the way they were fighting. I think that respect was reciprocated. We tried to do the best we could. We got quite steamed up by it. I myself was steamed up considerably by it. I had never experienced anything quite like that, and it made a tremendous impression on me. We knew they were Communist-led, we knew they had commissars, but there was very little discussion of that. We couldn't discuss those things very much because we didn't know the language.
Mr. TAVENNER. And you were fighting a common foe at that time?
Mr. HAYDEN. That we were, and I think we conducted ourselves fairly well.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say your relationship with the Partisan movement had a deep effect upon you. What do you mean by that?
Mr. HAYDEN. Precisely this: As I have, I believe, mentioned, in 1940, when I was still an actor, and in 1941, I had had conversations with this man Tompkins. I wish I.could describe my first reaction, because I think it would be typical of the experience so many people have had. I was appalled at the idea of what he was telling me about, but I did listen. He would give me literature, propaganda, and I would scan it briefly and burn it up. When this Yugoslavia thing came up, I wrote to him. I began writing, "Maybe you were not so wrong. These people are doing a magnificent job." I thought I had better figure this thing out. He, in turn, reciprocated by, I would say, bombarding me with Communist literature-People's World, Daily Worker, New Masses, and others I can't remember. I was impressed by the fact that the reports of that thing printed in the United States in this literature were accurate as regards the Partisans in Yugoslavia. Apparently the people in the States knew this. This had an effect on me because it made me conscious of what these people knew that apparently the rest of us didn't know. That was about the size of it at that time. I engaged in quite a lot of correspondence with Tompkins at that time. I was all steamed up. We all were. I can remember in the interior of Yugoslavia when the crews of planes would leave their shoes, anything they could spare, with the Partisans, they were that impressed, and I don't think a GI impresses too easily as a rule. This had a strong emotional impact on all of us.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have political discussions with the Partisans or any groups of them ?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO. I would honestly say not at all; not at all. Once in a while when we were back in Italy we would sit around and a few at Bari headquarters would talk a little bit about what was going on, but we never got very much involved in it. I remember a couple of times when I would have a story in some of this literature Tompkins sent me, I would show it to them, and they were very pleased.  INDUSTRY 133 There were no involved or detailed political discussions at all; not at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what the final result and effect was upon you of the correspondence you were having with Captain Tompkins and the experience that you were undergoing in Yugoslavia in working with the underground ?
Mr. HAYDEN. The final effect?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. HAYDEN. The net result?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. HAYDEN. Well- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us put it this way: What was the effect at that time? 
Mr. HAYDEN. At that time-I am glad you put it that way-there was a sort of thing churning inside me that I didn't know how to handle, but it seemed there was something in this world that I ought to find out about. That was the net result of the whole thing. When I got home on leave in December 1944, one of the first things I wanted to do, on a purely emotional basis, was go back and see Tompkins and talk to him about this thing, which I did. I flew out to the coast and basked in the reflected glory of the Partisan movement. Tompkins sort of showed me off as an exhibit.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before leaving the Yugoslavian section of your testimony, were you recognized in any way by the Government of Yugoslavia or by the Partisans for your services in working with the underground?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was it?
Mr. HAYDEN. I was given a decoration called the Order of Merit. I haven't picked it up yet, but I have the citation. I guess it is at the Embassy. I don't know where it is. The medal itself, I don't know where it is, but I have in my files the citation, the Order of Merit, which I think came for the same operation for which I got a Silver Star.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that the second highest decoration that could be awarded to a person of a foreign country, foreign to Yugoslavia ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I am not sure of that. I have heard that it was, but I am not sure at all. 
Mr. TAVENNER. So you received a Silver Star as a decoration?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And in addition to the other decoration which you mentioned ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. On your return to the United States for your 30-day leave, did you again see Capt. Warwick Tompkins? 
Mr. HAYDEN. That was the first thing I did. I didn't know where I was going to be sent. The Yugoslav situation seemed to be more or less under control at that time. They had gotten the Partisans a great deal more equipment and built them into some semblance of strength, so some of us were sent back to the States, and I was anxious to get in the same kind of work somewhere else. I didn't know where, but I hoped it would be possible to get into guerrilla outfits, because it is very interesting; it is stimulating; it is better than a lot of duty could be. 134 INDUSTRY So I contacted Tompkins. Subsequently, through him, I contacted people in New York who I thought would know about guerrilla outfits elsewhere, as they had had accurate dope about Yugoslavia. I flew out to San Francisco, met Tompkins, and for 5 or 6 days I was on a merry-go-round. He took me around and I talked ad nauseam about Yugoslavia, but they were apparently interested. I met a great many people, some of whom may or may not have been Communists. Some I know now were. At that time I wasn't pay- ing too much attention to that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you several questions in detail about that. You were the guest of Captain Tompkins on your trip to the west coast at that time ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether, on the day after your ar- rival there, you had dinner with three individuals, including Captain Tompkins, one of whom was Isaac Folkoff?
Mr. HAYDEN. I remember having dinner or lunch with this fellow called "Pop" Folkoff, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember where that lunch was held?
Mr. HAYDEN. I do not. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there some other person present at that lunch- eon with the three of you?
Mr. HAYDEN. I vaguely recall that there was, but I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall his name?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO, sir, I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know a person by the name of Baroway ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have heard the name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Leo Baroway? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I have heard the name. You mean at that time, was this the man in question?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. HAYDEN. I could not say. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not Isaac Folkoff was a functionary in the Communist Party at that time ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I do not. I had the idea that he was in some way retired from the "struggle" at that time, as they put it, but from what I have heard since, this is open to question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe what else occurred on that-trip, .where you went and what you did while you were a guest of Tompkins'?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, I wish I could remember everything. I can remember a few incidents, but I don't mean to convey the idea that this is all that happened. We were on the go all the time. We went from place to place. Either at that time or on a subsequent visit he took me to the offices of the Daily People's World. I remember meeting Bill Schneiderman and Harrison George. I don't remember anyone else. We went to San Francisco and went aboard a Russian vessel and had a drink. It was all on a social basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you on that occasion meet a person by the name of Steve Nelson?
Mr. HAYDEN. I met Steve Nelson. I don't remember if I met him then or after the war. I know I met him either in December of that year, 1944, or after the war .when I saw Tompkins again.  135 
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, it was either the latter part of 1944 or the latter part of 1945 or early 1946 ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Or early 1946, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. That you met Steve Nelson?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Regardless of which may be the correct' date, w dl you tell the committee the circumstances under which you met Nelson ?
Mr. HAYDEN. It was at a party, or rather a group get-together or gathering in someone's home in Oakland or in San Francisco one evening. There were 10 or 15 people sitting around. Nelson was one of them. I remember being introduced to him because he was supposed to be an outstanding figure.
Mr. TAVENNER. An outstanding figure in what capacity?
Mr. HAYDEN. In their world. don't remember exactly what I was told he had done that made him outstanding, but I remember Tompkins saying to me in the car, "Steve Nelson will be there. He is quite a guy," or something like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether he was the organizer for the Communist Party for Alameda County at that particular time ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I didn't knbw that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall in whose home you met Nelson?
Mr. HAYDEN. Usually it was at the home of Tompkins' brother-in- law, a doctor whose last name slips me this minute. of it. I can't think 
Mr. TAVENNER. IS it Dr. Lyman? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Dr. Lyman is right. Frequently when I was in San Francisco visiting Tompkins we would go see Tompkins' sister and brother-in-law. *
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that Dr. Ellwobd W. Lyman?
Mr. HAYDEN. I know it is Ellwood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember anything that took place at that meeting attended by Steve Nelson?
Mr. HAYDEN. I vaguely recall that they asked if I would say a few words about Yugoslavia, and I did. What I said was in the same vein as what I have said here today except at that time I was fresh from the place and was talking on that basis, you might say.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain as the guest of Captain Tompkins? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I think 5 or 6 days. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you returned to the east coast?
Mr. HAYDEN. Then I returned to Washington, D. C.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you returned to Washington did you bring any Communist Party literature or documents with you ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I may have. I think every time I ever saw Tompkinn I would end up with, if not an armful, at least a handful of pamphlet, so I probably had some with me that I was going to read in the plane or carry with me; I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee your best opinion as to the effect of this trip upon you, that is, the trip when you were the guest again of Tompkins?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, I was at that time, I think, trying to look ahead, figure out what I wanted to do after the war. I didn't know if I wanted to go back to Hollywood or not. I felt a sort of reluctance to accepting what seemed to me to be the very lucrative and easy life 136 Hollywood had offered me before and probably would again. I think the main thing was, it planted a seed in me that said if I could do something about the conditions of the world I could probably justify my position as an actor with a good salary and good working conditions. This wasn't concrete, but it was something boiling inside of me.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you do when you went back to New York ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I remember I went back to OSS headquarters, and my future assignment had not been determined, and it seemed to me that inasmuch as the Communist press had analyzed Tito accurately, they might know of other guerrilla outfits such as the Partisans. Wrote or wired Tompkins asking who I could contact in New York, and he wired me to contact V. J. Jerome in New York. I picked up the phone and called the Daily Worker office and I said, "This is Lt. John Hamilton, United States Marine Corps. I would like to talk to V. J. Jerome." There was some consternation at the other end of the line, and I was told if I was in New York later to call again, which I did. Jerome said we could meet at the Golden Eagle Cafe on West Twelfth Street just off Fifth Avenue. I went in and sat at the bar. About half an hour later a man scuttled through the back room and I thought, "This must be Jerome." I looked at him. He looked at me. .1 walked up, introduced myself, and sat down. My purpose was to find out if he had any idea where there were other guerrilla movements going on. He wouldn't talk to me. I think he was suspcious. I got nowhere that day. I called and talked to a man named Joe North, whom he had mentioned to me. I went up and talked to him in this building that I guess was headquarters for the whole caboodle. There was general con- versation. Nothing constructive came out of it whatsoever, as I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you also go see a person by the name of Allan Chase, who is an avowed Communist, having been a candidate for Congress on the Communist ticket ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I met him. I think even prior to my trip to see Tompkins I had met him. I didn't know until you told me that he was an open Communist. I didn't know he was a Communist. I thought possibly he was. He was particularly interested in the situation in Spain. He talked about that angle of it, the fact there was a movement there, the remnants of a movement in there, and I met friends of his at his apartment near Central Park, and so forth and so on. As nearly as I can recall, I went back to Washington and talked to someone in OSS, and talked about the possibility of going to Spain. They said there were already men in Spain. They said I would be sent to Paris. I went to Paris and was attached directly to the First Army Headquarters.
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to having met a number of Allan Chase's friends. Was communism discussed with his friends ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. No. Communism was never discussed. per se was never discussed to the best of my recollection. Communism There was a discussion of the war going on and the role in it of the guerrillas.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you meet any other Communists while you were in New York?  
Mr. HAYDEN. Not to my knowledge. INDUSTRY 137 The only two I met that I considered Communists were V. J. Jerome and Joe North. I thought possibly Chase was connected, but I didn't know. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make any connection, or attempt to make any connection, with the underground in Spain after you arrived in Paris ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. No. When I went overseas I had two or three letters of introduction from friends of Chase to be used in case I got into Spain. I don't remember what I did with these letters. As soon as I got to Paris I was told to get into a jeep and go to Belgium, which 1 did, and I guess I threw the letters away or burned them; I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of your work in Belgium ?
Mr. HAYDEN. OSS detachment, G-2 headquarters. The work at the detachment was in two levels: First, on an operational level, to infiltrate German civilians or German prisoners who had indicated a desire to work with the Allies back through the lines; and the thing I became particularly active in was-Col. B. A. Dickson was anxious to find out if there were any guerrilla anti-Nazi elements that were liberated as we went along that we could contact. I had a team of six or eight men, American Army personnel, who spoke German. We worked together quite closely, and went to Marburg, Germany, which is where we were on VE-day. We didn't meet many anti-Nazis that I remember. To follow chronologically, after VE-day I returned to Paris and was told to take a photographic team, consisting initially of two or three photographers, and make a photographic study of all the ports of northern Europe, including Germany, Denmark, and Norway, which we did. This occupied us for quite a long period of time. We covered almost all of Norway, all of Denmark, all of Germany, and at that time I was sent back to the States and discharged.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the time of your second assignment on the German front, what was your connection with Capt. Warwick Tompkins? Did you continue to obtain Communist literature and propagand.a from him ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think I kept in touch with him. I think I kept writing to him. I was still fired up by the Yugoslav thing and so on. I kept up a desultory correspondence with him, and I presume he.con- tinued to send me Communist newspapers and literature. remember, actually. I don't 
Mr. TAVENNER. When was your assignment terminated ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, let's see. I was discharged the 24th of Decem- ber 1945. I think I returned to the States the end of November. Actually, I tried to find a record of that and couldn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you do upon arriving in the United States?
Mr. HAYDEN. As soon as I was discharged I sort of cast about for something to do. At that time I remember there were two forces working inside me. One was to go back to sea; and the other was this political thing. At that time, I would like to say-and this is accurate to the best of my recollection-it had never occurred to me to join the Communist Party. It had never occurred to me. It seemed this whole 13S COMMUnNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY thing had introduced me to a new world that up to that time I had never known. I tried to raise money to get a schooner. I couldn't raise the money. Then someone in Paramount contacted me to sign a new contract. I said, "0. K. Here we go."
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was that? MAr. HAYDEN. Russell Holman, of Paramount's New York office.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that prior to your leaving the east coast for the west coast . 
Mr. HAYDEX. We made the deal in New York. I then went out to Nevada, where I got a divorce from my then wife, Madelaine Carroll, and then went to San Francisco and spent 6 weeks with Tompkins, and then reported to Paramount in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Holman know of your past associations and connection with Capt. Warwick Tompkins?
Mr. HAYDEN. I doubt that he did. He may have. I don't think he did. I don't know. I am sure that everybody I saw at that time, I talked to them about this Yugoslav thing. What came out of the conversations, I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time of your second employment by the moving-picture industry, did your employer have any knowledge, as far as you know, of your associations with other Communist functions in California, such as William Schneiderman and Isaac Folkoff?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO. I think that was more or less lost in the shuffle of the war. There was so much going on, and I was fortunate enough to come out of the war better, publicitywise or otherwise, and they felt I had done pretty well in the war and let it go at that. There was no detailed analysis of what happened.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result of your signing the contract in New York, you went to the west coast. At that time, did you see Capt. Warwick Tompkins again ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I saw him as soon as I left Nevada. I returned to Hollywood by way of San Francisco and spent some time with him on his schooner there. I don't remember how long.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I would say it was approximately the last week in March 1946. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What occurred on the occasion of this visit to Cap- tain Tompkins? I don't remember anything in particular. Yes; one thing. He said he wanted to write a book about me. He was a very good writer. He had written for yachting magazines and had written several books with no political content whatever, and he thought it 
Mr. HAYDEN. would be a good idea to write a biography of my life, and the slant he wanted to give it was, "The development of a typical nonpolitical American youth into a militant participant in the class struggle," something like that. I said O.K.; 0. K. So I went down to Hollywood and purchased a boat which I lived on, made my home on. Shortly thereafter, I would say in April, possibly the latter part of April or first of May, for 3 weeks he came on the schooner with me and took notes copiously. He followed me wherever I went on the boat, and eventually he got 75,000 words written on the story before I "came to" sufficiently to call on him one day and call the whole thing off.  INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. When was it you called it off? 139 It was quite some- time later, I suppose?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; it was a long time later; a long time later.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before we go into that, I would like to know what occurred in the meantime. After your arrival in Hollywood, did you become associated with any particular organizations there?
Mr. HAYDEN. I joined the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. You joined the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances leading up to your actually becoming a card-carrying member, or dues-paying member, of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; I will. As I began to operate around and move around Hollywood, I continued to talk, I would say almost incessantly, about this thing built up in me in Yugoslavia and the feeling I wanted to do something for a better world. That is a cliche expression, but I think it is accurate. Through Tompkins I was put in contact with a woman, Bea Winters. One day she said to me, "Why don't you stop talking and join the Communist Party?" I clearly remember my first reaction, which was, "This is ridiculous." However, I went ahead. She had a paper which I signed. I don't know whether I signed Sterling Hayden or John Hamilton. John Hamilton was my legal name. I know I signed one of the two names, and was almost immediately accepted into the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell Bea ?
Mr. HAYDEN. B-e-a.
Mr. TAVENNER. How was she employed ?
Mr. HAYDEN. She was a secretary in the office of my agent.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of your agent?
Mr. HAYDEN. Berg-Allen Berg, Inc.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that agency in existence today ?
Mr. HAYDEN. It has since become amalgamated or merged with the William Morris office.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether Bea Winters' membership in the Communist Party was known to the agency ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I think it is safe to say it was not, or she wouldn't have been employed there. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How is she employed now, do you Imow ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have heard she was secretary to a producer. I can't think of his name. 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Tavenner, will you fix the date when he joined the Communist Party ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Communist Party ? Can you fix the date when you joined the 
Mr. HAYDEN. As nearly as I can remember-and I have no record of it at all-it was approximately between the 5th and 15th of June 1946, but that may not be accurate.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over how long a period of time were you acquainted with Bea Winters?
Mr. HAYDEN. Prior to this?
Mr. TAVENNER. Both prior and subsequently.
Mr. HAYDEN. I had known her before the war when she was with the Berg-Allen Berg Agency. Nothing political was ever discussed. 140 I saw her again after the war, and I believe it was Tompkins who told me she was very active politically. Then began the political phase of the association, you might say.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you acquainted with her after you became a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. She was a member of the cell or group that I was assigned to up until the time that I broke with them, which was in December of that same year, 1946.
Mr. TAVE NNER. To what group of the Communist Party were you assigned upon your first joining the party?
Mr. HAYDEN. I was told that for security reasons I should not be with any prominent people in any phase of endeavor at all in the motion-picture industry, but should be with people known as back-lot workers, carpenters, electricians, and so forth, and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you explain that a little further, about secur- ity ? Security for whom ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Security for me, I presume. It was never discussed very much. I believe this cell was composed primarily of people from Universal, RKO, Columbia, and Paramount, but these people were never known to me by their last names. It was only first names. Everybody called everybody else comrade.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many composed that cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't know what the official membership was, but an average meeting would have from 10 to 22 or 23 people. I think they were happy if they had more than 8.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the officers ?
Mr. HAYDEN. When I first joined there was a man who functioned as secretary, whose last name I do not know, whose first name was Hjalmar.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell it?
Mr. HAYDEN. H-j-a-l-m-a-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. How was he employed ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't know. I don't know how he was employed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know by whom he was employed ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I couldn't say for sure, no. I was going to say I thought he was at Paramount, but I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he lived ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have no idea, although I may have gone to his house. I went to different houses by address. I don't know if I ever went to his house, though it is likely I did. He functioned as secretary. He kept records, collected dues, and so forth and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. To whom did you pay your dues?
Mr. HAYDEN. TO him.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were your dues?
Mr. HAYDEN. The same as everybody else. They were computed on a percentage of salary, but I was not included in the percentage deal. I paid what everybody else paid. It seems to me it was $1.75, $2, or $2.50 a month.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall the names of anybody else who were members of that group ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I remember the names Bernie and Frank. knew their last-names. I knew Bea Winters, of course.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a member of that same group ?
Mr. HAYDEN. She was. I never  INDUSTRY 141 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how Bernie was employed?
Mr. HAYDEN. I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he lived 
Mr. HAYDEN. I do not know that. I don't think I ever went to his house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you say a person named Frank?
Mr. HAYDEN. Somebody named Frank.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you able to identify any of these people by any manner to the committee, as to how they were employed and where, or where they lived, that might lead to a discovery of who they actually are?
Mr. HAYDEN. Only the man named Bernie, from the way he con- ducted himself; I would say he was employed in a white-collar capacity. He was more of an intellectual type than the others. He frequently would hold a discussion on the dialectical phases of communism, and so forth and so on. (Representatives Doyle, Velde, and Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. HAYDEN (continuing). All the rest. seemed to me to be employed as back-lot workers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall the names of any of the persons in whose homes the meetings were held ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No, because when a meeting broke up somebody would say, "We will meet next Friday night at such and such a time at such an address." I would write down the address. I wasn't sure whose house it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know an individual by the name of Abe Polonsky ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. The meetings were frequently held at Abe's house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of this group ?
Mr. HAYDEN. He was later. About the time I terminated he began to show up at meetings. In the early stages of the proceedings he did not sit in on these meetings as I remember it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you as a member of the Com- munist Party, from your.association with him?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Is he currently a writer for Twentieth CenturyFox?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't know who he is writing for. I don't know anything about him. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Counsel, will you suspend for a moment ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. sir.
Mr. WOOD. Let the record disclose that the number of committee- men in attendance has been reduced, and that there are now present members of the committee Walter, Moulder, Potter, and Wood, being less than a quorum. By virtue of authority vested in me under the resolution creating this committee, I hereby establish a subcommittee to proceed with the hearing until a quorum returns.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give any further information you have as regards Abe Polonsky and his activities in the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. In all honesty, I know little on that score. Initially, I had the feeling he was involved elsewhere. While the meetings were held at his house, he was seldom present until 2 or 3 months had elapsed, after which he began to appear fairly regularly, 142  and after that functioned as sort of head of the group. Outside of that, I know nothing of his activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Robert Lees?
Mr. HAYDEN. Robert Lees was a member of this group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he meet on more than one occasion with this same group? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; he did.
Mr. TAVENNER. How often do you think he was there while you were there ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I could only guess, and I don't like to guess on things like this. I would say 10 or 12 times.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether you met at his home on any occasion ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think we did on one occasion.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of the holding of these meetings for this particular group that you were assigned to?
Mr. HAYDEN. The over-all purpose was simply that these people were Communists and they met to discuss what was going on. In a meeting the discussion would usually be split up into what was going on in the industry that concerned them, and then part of the meeting would be devoted to the world situation, theoretical diagnoses, and so forth.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, part of the time was devoted to the study of the principles of the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you continue in that cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. That was the only cell I ever belonged to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any particular assignment while you were a member of that cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. After about-and here, again, I do not remember the date. It wouldn't be hard to fix it, because sometime the latter part of that summer or early in the fall the Conference of Studio Unions, which is a sort of amalgamation of locals in the industry, went out on strike. At that time the focal point of interest became the prosecution of this stand that these people had taken. I was told that it would be very helpful and important if the Screen Actors' Guild could be swung into line in support of this strike.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were told that by whom?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't know; somebody in this group.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was a Communist order or suggestion?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is the way it came to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. It came to you in a Communist meeting by members of the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. So I went first-and I don't remember who told me to go to it-to a large cocktail party where 60 or 70 people interested in this phase of endeavor, you might say,. were present, and through this initial meeting I began to meet a group of actors and actresses who all felt the same way. This was a very loose category of people. however.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that the group with whom you were directed to work?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO. I still attended meetings with this same group, but they told me I should be concerned primarily with actors, and they thought I should contact the Screen Actors' Guild for support of the  INDUSTRY 143 position of the Conference of Studio Unions, and I was told to associate with these people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were working for the same purpose ?
Mr. HAYDEN. It coincided. I would like to say at this point, there were a great, great many people involved here. I don't know what percentage of the actors and actresses involved were a long, long, long way from being Communists in any sense of the word, so far as I know.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have given a list of the persons connected with that movement to the investigators of this committee, have you not ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, I have; to the best of my recollection.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any of that group whom you can identify as members of the Communist Party, to your knowledge? I am not asking you for names of people generally who were with you in this project, unless they were known to you to be members of the Communist Party.
Mr. HAYDEN. I understand. I wouldn't hesitate to say Karen Mor- ley, inasmuch as in 1947, a long time after I had completely severed any and all connections with any form of Communist activities or endeavor, she came to me and asked me to come back, so I certainly think it is safe to assume that she was a member. Over and above that, it would have to get into the realm of conjecture, which, frankly, I am somewhat doubtful of.
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't want you to go into the field of conjecture.
Mr. HAYDEN. NO. (Representative Doyle returns to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW I want to ask you a few more questions about this meeting which you were directed to attend in carrying out your Communist Party obligations. You said there were 50 or more people present, as I understood you ?
Mr. HAYDEN. There were 60 or 70 people there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did that group narrow down to a comparatively few who actually functioned ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I would say there was a nucleus that would attend meetings more regularly. When there were gatherings to see what could be done, there were certain people who would appear more regularly. There were people on the periphery, on the edge, who would be there sometimes; and other people were there more regularly.
Mr. TAVENNER. How frequently did you meet to work on that enterprise ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I would say once or twice a week.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Karen Morley meet with you?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were these meetings held?
Mr. HAYDEN. Some were held at Karen Morley's house. Some were held at a house owned by a man named Morris Carnovsky, who, I might say, was never present. And others were held at homes which I only knew at that time by address. (Representative Jackson returns to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with a person by the name of Lloyd Gough?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. G-o-u-g-h, is that the correct spelling of the name?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think it is. 144 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he attend those meetings?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; he did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any knowledge on your own part as to whether or not he was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, I would say it would probably be safe to assume that he was.
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't want you to assume it.
Mr. HAYDEN. I have absolutely, categorically, no knowledge that he was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Howard da Silva? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he attend those meetings?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you any personal knowledge as to whether or not he was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Only in his behavior before this committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand that you withdrew or terminated your connection with the Communist Party the same year in which you joined it?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is right. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what led up to the termination of your relationship with the Communist Party, and whether your break was an actual break and a final break with the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Thank you very much. That I would like to do. As I think is abundantly clear-and I don't make any apologyI do not mean to imply that I was dragged into the thing in any way, shape, or manner. I went into the thing voluntarily. Certainly I think it was the stupidest, most ignorant thing I have ever done, and I have done a good many such things, but I did go into it with a very emotional and very unsound approach.' I hadn't been in very longI would say it took me 3 or 4 months to realize the true nature of what I had done. I would like to say at this time, without launching into a long dissertation on this thing, that one thing that decided me once and for all against the whole business was the manner in which everything is predetermined. I think I had become susceptible to and, in a sense, perhaps, a victim of the idea that they had a form of democracy in mind. That was in my mind during the Yugoslav days and the time I joined. I found the belief is that they have the key, by some occult power, to know what is best for people, and that is the way it is going to be. I think any 'Communist or pseudo-Communist who pretends it is other than this is falsifying the fact. When I learned about this and began to think about it and digest it a bit, I decided to get out, and I got out. I would like to take this opportunity, if I may, to briefly state for the record a sort of synopsis of my complete association with anything that was Communist or might be construed as Communist front. I would like to lump it and say categorically that is all there is to it, and anybody who insinuates it is not, is mistaken. I belonged to this cell that I mentioned. 
Mr. TAVENNER. First let me ask: Have you become a member of any other organizations since you terminated your relationship with  INDUSTRY 145 the Communist Party which has been cited as a Communist front, or has had Communist Party leanings, so far as you know
Mr. HAYDEN. I know of one instance, and I would like to set that straight. There was an outfit in Hollywood, the Committee for the First Amendment, formed in October 1947. I broke once and for all with the Communist thing in December 1946. Actually, the break coincided with the fact I was living on my boat in Santa Barbara. That summer my wife and I went East, on the coast of Maine, and when we came back I had a call from Alexander Knox saying this Committee for the First Amendment was being formed, and would I join. I said I would think it over. I was told who was sponsoring it, spearheading it. I thought it over very carefully, and I assured myself-I may be wrong, but my conclusion was that this was in no way a Communist front at that time. So I joined, and I came to Washington in the fall, I think, October of that year, 1947. I would like to go on with the people who did join. I think you are probably familiar with the membership list of that organization, and if it has since been determined that this thing was spearheaded by Communists, believe me these people didn't know it. The people who lent their names and gave money to this Committee for the First Amendment, to the best of my knowledge certainly had no idea that it was a Communist front, any more than I had. That is the one thing which, as you said, has been cited.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were those who spearheaded the Committee for the First Amendment, to your knowledge ?
Mr. HAYDEN. The first name that comes to mind is Humphrey Bogart, and his wife. It would be hard for me to remember. I wish I had a list. I know it runs into hundreds of so-called Hollywood names. I know there was a tremendous gathering at Ira Gershwin's house at which a couple of hundred people were present. The spokesmen were John Huston and Phil Dunne. It is common knowledge all the people who flew East at that time.
Mr. TAYENNER. I interrupted you in the course of your statement.
Mr. HAYDEN. I would like to go on and sum this thing up once and for all, if I may. I did belong to the Communist Party from June until the middle of December 1946.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you joined the Communist Party, were you advised by anyone that to do so would improve your chance of promotion in Hollywood ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No; I was not. On the contrary, I had certain reser- vations in my mind and I kept pretty quiet, I kept completely quiet, about my association with the Communist Party. I didn't think it would help me in any way, shape, or manner; on the contrary.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of your experience in Hollywood, did you at any time become acquainted with any Communist activity on the part of any high official of the motion picture industry ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, there was one instance. Shortly after I joined, I would say in July, Bea Winters said there was an important man who would like to come and talk with me. We met at the restaurant Victor's on Sunset Boulevard. He came in. I don't know the name 146  by which he was introduced to me. After reading certain newspaper stories subsequent to this event I figured his name was John Stapp. I know he was introduced as John.
Mr. TAVENNER. S-t-a-p-p?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. I think he has other names. He asked what made me think I wanted to be a Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Hollywood motion pic- ture industry?
Mr. HAYDEX. I have no idea.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, possibly from my question it might have been misinterpreted. He was a high functionary in the Communist Party .
Mr. HAYDEN. I was told he was an important man. 
Mr. TVE-NNER. But not in the Hollywood motion picture industry?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't think he was in any way employed in the industry; not in any way.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. TAVENNER. Go ahead HAYDEN. With John with your experience. Stapp? TA\VENNER. Yes. HAYDEN. He asked why I had joined, and I went into the Yugoslavia thing. He asked if I had any militant trade-union background. and I said I did not. The conversation was more or less parallel with the conversation I had with Jerome, where I figured he was doing some calculating. He didn't say anything to me at all. I think he said he doubted that I would make a good Communist, but I am not sure.
Mr. TAVEXER. Going back to my original question, did any knowledge come to you at any time of activities on the part of any highranking official in the Hollywood motion picture industry that would indicate Communist Party membership on the part of any such individual ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. No. with that. I think of nothing whatsoever in connection 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Edward G. Robinson?
Mr. HAYDEN. I met Mr. Robinson backstage at a rally for Israel one evening, and chatted with him a couple of minutes before he made a speech. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he attend any Communist Party meetings which you attended ?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO.
Mr. TAVENNER. Please proceed to sum up what you had in mind saying.
Mr. HAYDEN. I mentioned the cell, which lasted for 5 or 6 months. There was the activity in this minority group within the Screen Actors' Guild. As soon as I got back in Hollywood I joined the Hollywood Independent Citizens' Committee of the Arts, Sciences and Professions, HICCASP. I paid dues through December. I never participated in a single thing in their behalf. I joined the American Veterans' Committee at the same time. I made two speeches for them on Yugoslavia, one in Pomona and one in Santa Barbara. I spoke on the fighting in Yugoslavia. ' 147 Then there is the Committee for the First Amendment, which I suppose could be construed as such since it has since been cited as a front organization. And as I indicated earlier, this is the total, without reservation or limitation. I have a brief list of contributions which I wanted to put in. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the organizations to which you con- tributed ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I contributed $100 to HICCASP. Three hundred dollars, one check, to Abe Polonsky. As I remember, this was for the families of the strikers in the CSU. That may be wrong. It may have been for the Communist Party. I paid my Communist Party dues. I paid my AVC dues, $2.75 per month. I paid my HICCASP dues. I once gave Tompkins $75 for the People's World when they were trying to keep on printing. That was the total.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were all these contributions made prior to your leaving the party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Except for $100 to the Committee for the First Amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have indicated that after your relationship with the Communist Party was severed, that Karen Morley came to you and asked you to come back into the party.
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give the committee the entire transaction as it occurred ?
Mr. HAYDEN. She came to our house. I had remarried in June of that year. She came to our house, I believe, right after or before the Committee for the First Amendment was formed. She came and said she wanted me to consider coming back in, and I said, "There is nothing to be considered. This is it. There is nothing to discuss" and so forth and so on. As she left the house I took her out to the front hall, and she said, "I hope you realize that having made that decision, it will be ex- tremely hard for you to ever get back in." And I said, "Nothing will please me more." That ended it.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of the conversation, was any- thing said about your becoming a passive member? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. I forgot that. She said, "Since you don't want to be an active member, will you contribute money?" I said, "No." (Representative Velde returns to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, in Hollywood there is such a thing as a passive membership, or a contributing membership, without attending meetings and so forth?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is the way I understood it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of any instance in which that type of membership is being maintained ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I do not.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have cooperated with the committee by telling the investigators, in advance of this hearing today, what you have known of communism in your own life and in Hollywood. Have you 81595-51-pt. 1--7 148  taken any other action besides that which would indicate good faith on your part in the break which you claim you have made with the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. I believe I have. One month after South Korea was invaded, through my attorney, a letter was sent to Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, Federal Bureau of Investigation, in which was set forth the fact that for a period of 5 to 6 months I had been a member of the Communist Party, and with the world going the way it was, it seemed entirely probably that a conflagration would develop, and I hope, if that was the case, my services would not be denied, if the Marine Corps could use me, on the basis of this mistake I had made. I have a photostatic copy of that letter I would like to produce or read for the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. Suppose you produce it and read it into the record.
Mr. HAYDEN. (Reading:) JULY 31, 1950. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, Washington., D. C. (Attention Mr. J. Edgar Hoover) DEAR SIa: This office has a client who has discussed with us a problem which I believe can only be answered through your organization. In June of 1946 this young man, in a moment of emotional disturbance, became a bona fide member of the Communist Party in the State of California. In November of 1946 he decided that he had made a mistake and terminated his membership and his association with the. Communist Party. Ever since November of 1946 this client has had no connection whatsoever with the Communist Party or with an organization affiliated with it. The gentleman in question is an American-born citizen with a distinguished war record. He enlisted in the Marine Corps as a private and received his termination as a captain. Because of his distinguished services he received the Silver Star medal with citation from the commanding general, Mediterranean Theater of Operations, United States Army. The citation recognized his gallantry in action in the Mediterranean Theater of Operations with the United States Marine Corps Reserve. Our client is not engaged in any activity where security is involved. However, since the commencement of the operation in Korea, he has felt that the time may come, in the near future, when his services might be of aid to the United States. He is concerned with the fact that his brief membership in the Communist Party, as aforesaid, may operate to prevent the use of his services. In addition to the foregoing, he is married and has young children. If his services are not needed by the United States, conditions may develop so as to require an answer in connection with ordinary employment to the query: "Are you now or have you ever been a Communist?" Our client can, of course, answer honestly and frankly that he is not now a member of the Communist Party. He could not answer the rest of the compound question without (a) either lying, or (b) if he told the truth he would probably find himself unable to earn a living. While it must be admitted that a mistake was made in 1946, it does appear that justice requires some method by which one mistake does not operate (a) to prevent the United States from making use of the services of our client, (b) to prevent our client from earning a living. He is perfectly willing to submit to any interrogation or examination by the Federal Bureau of Investigation so that that organization may be convinced of his sincerity and of the truth of all the statements related herein. The purpose of this, of course, is to permit our client, if the compound question is asked him, to say in answer to the question, "Please inquire of the Federal Bureau of Investigation." The Federal Bureau of Investigation could then notify the prospective employer that there was no reason for not employing our client. We would appreciate hearing from you at your earliest convenience. Sincerely yours, GANG, KoPP & TYBE, By MARTIN GANG.  INDUSTRY 149 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was a reply received from the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. I have that here. 
Mr.. TAVENNER. Will you read it into the record ?
Mr. HAYDEN (reading): AUGUST 15, 1950.
Mr. MARTIN GANG: 401 Taft Building, Los Angeles 28, Calif. DEAR SIR : Your letter of July 31, 1950, has been received and I want to thank you for making these facts available to me. I have given your letter careful consideration and I am fully cognizant of the problem which confronts you and your client. I regret to inform you, however, that it has been a long-standing policy of this Bureau not to grant a clearance to any person and I am, therefore, unable to assist you in the manner which you suggest. May I suggest, however, that inasmuch as this Bureau has primary investigative jurisdiction of matters concerning the internal security of our country, it is considered advisable that your client furnish our Los Angeles office with details concerning his membership in the Communist Party together with the nature of the party activities during that period. In order to comply with this request may I suggest that you contact Mr. R. B. Hood, special agent in charge of our Los Angeles office, 900 Security Building, Los Angeles 13, Calif., in order to arrange for an interview of your client. Very truly yours, (S) J. E. HOOVER, JOHN EDGAR HOOVER, Director. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you report as requested in that letter ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, I did. I don't remember just how soon after we received this letter from Mr. Hoover. I believe it was early in Au- gust. And subsequently I met with them on two other occasions and discussed the thing in complete detail as I have today.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you anything further you desire to add ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think we have covered the ground pretty well. I would like to say that I appreciate very much, very, very much, the opportunity to appear here today. I think that there is a tremendous service to be rendered, not only to the country at large but to the motion-picture industry and also to those individuals who find themselves in a similar position to mine. I have heard that there are many, many thousands-I have heard there are hundreds of thousands-of ex-Communists who don't know what to do about it. I would like, if it is not presumptuous, to suggest in all humility that perhaps some provision could be made by law to permit people who had had a similar experience to make their position known and clear, so that they could get this thing off their chest, because, believe me, it is a load to carry around with you.
Mr. TAVENNER. I might say, in that connection, that the chairman of this committee, in a broadcast not along ago, invited those who were in this category to make that fact known to this committee, and they would keep it in confidence if that was desired, but to make known their participation so that it would be a matter of record now as to just what their participation had been, and there has been a very fine response to that.
Mr. HAYDEN. I didn't realize that.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. I would like to ask a question about this Committee for the First Amendment. What representations were made to you 150 concerning the need for an organization to protect the first amendment to the Constitution?
Mr. HAYDEN. As I recall it, the basic premise of the organization was that a man was entitled to whatever political beliefs he.might have, and that nobody could inquire into them. I think that this was the idea they had in mind at the time.
Mr. WALTER. That is all.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Hayden, in reference to your last statement, I believe you said you are very, very grateful to the committee for the opportunity to get this thing off your chest. Then you added, "Be- lieve me, it is a load." What did you mean by that ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Well, conditions, of course, it seems to me, from my personal experience, were a great deal different in 1946 than today. As I have indicated, I went into the thing of my own free will, impulsively, stupidly, but I did get into it. When I realized I was wrong, I got out.
Mr. DOYLE. What happened to cause you to come to the conclusion you had committed error ?
Mr. HAYDEN. One of the prime things was taking refuge in certain amendments to the Constitution. At that time I was pretty much of a greenhorn, but as soon as I realized the Communists were taking refuge under the amendments to our Constitution that they under no circumstances would permit others to takeMr. DOYLE. Taking refuge from what?
Mr. HAYDEN. Taking refuge in the fifth amendment or the first amendment and considering that their political connections could not be questioned.
Mr. DOYLE. What led you to believe they were taking refuge in the first and fifth amendments?
Mr. HAYDEN. I believe in this investigation certain people have stood on the fifth amendment.
Mr. DOYLE. That is only in the last year or so.
Mr. HAYDEN. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. And you resigned from the Communist Party in 1946. 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. That is 4 years ago. What did you discover prior to the time you resigned which caused you, if anything did cause you, to come to the conclusion that you could not consistently continue longer as a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. One thing was when I became aware of the totali- tarian idea of communism, which had been obscured by the fog in the war years.
Mr. DOYLE. I believe you testified when you accepted Bea Winters' invitation to join the Communist Party, the meetings of the cell indicated, did they not, the totalitarian nature of the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; they did; but, unfortunately, it took some time for my awareness of this to overcome the initial headway I had built up.
Mr. DOYLE. When you say you discovered the totalitarian nature of the Communist Party, what do you mean by that? What does "totalitarian nature of the Communist Party" mean to you that caused you to resign  INDUSTRY 151 
Mr. HAYDEN. That a very few people, or a certain group of people, know what is best for the majority, and the will of the majority has no bearing on what is done for the majority. That, I believe, is wrong.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you discover at any time that the Communist Party was encouraging devious ways to upset or overthrow or overcome, by force if necessary, the republican form of government that we have under our Constitution in the United States ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I certainly believe that to be the case.
Mr. DOYLE. When did you come to that conclusion ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't remember the exact time. 
Mr. DOYLE. Approximately?
Mr. HAYDEN. Approximately at the time I severed my connection.
Mr. DOYLE. That was when? You might have testified to that when I was out of the room voting.
Mr. HAYDEN. December 1946.
Mr. DOYLE. As I say, I had to go out of the room to vote, so I didn't have the benefit of hearing your full testimony. I left the room just at the time you were testifying that Bea Winters was a member of a cell with you. So I don't know if you told the names of other members of that cell, or those whom you know as Communists.
Mr. HAYDEN. To the best of my knowledge I did.
Mr. DOYLE. Was that question asked, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, and his answer was he knew them only by their first names with the exception of two, Abe Polonsky and Robert Lees, whom he identified.
Mr. DOYLE. Were the members of this cell all men?
Mr. HAYDEN. No; men and women.
Mr. DOYLE. About what proportion?
Mr. HAYDEN. Two-thirds men and one-third women.
Mr. DOYLE. How many members in the cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. There were from 10 to 23 or 25. 
Mr. DOYLE. How often did they meet?
Mr. HAYDEN. Weekly.
Mr. DOYLE. Did they have a regular meeting place ?
Mr. HAYDEN. It was at a different house almost every week. Several meetings were held at the house of a man named Abe Polonsky.
Mr. DOYLE. Were members of the cell all actors or actresses?
Mr. HAYDEN. None of them were actors or actresses.
Mr. DOYLE. You were an actor?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, I was. As I said, I was told when my application was accepted that I would be put in a cell of back-lot people.
Mr. DonY. I believe you said they were carpenters, electricians, and so on?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DoYLE. Didn't you recognize some of them by name? They were all in the industry, weren't they ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, they were all in the industry, but it is a large industry. There are 20,000 to 30,000 people in the industry, I believe.
Mr. DoYLE. And you associated with those people in that cell from what date?
Mr. HAYDEN. About the first week of June.
Mr. DOYi. Until December 1946?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, sir. 152  
Mr. DOYLE. Then it is your testimony that from June 1946 to December 1946 you associated weekly with members of the cell at meetings, and you only know the names of two members of the cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. We met 2 to 3 months on this basis, at which time I was put in touch with a group of actors and actresses trying to swing the Screen Actors' Guild in line with a strike then in progress. I then met very infrequently with this initial cell.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you ever receive any literature from Tompkins or anyone else which, in printed form, made any declaration or stated any policy or objective that caused you to conclude that the Communist Party, of which you later became a member, was interested in revolution against the American form of government ?
Mr. HAYDEN. As I recall, it was always couched in other terms. I think a more perceptive person would have seen it. I did not at the time.
Mr. DOYLE. You believe the literature you received from Tompkins did advocate the overthrow of the American form of government?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think that was the ultimate objective; yes.
Mr. DoYLE. Do ou have any of that literature now? 
Mr. HAYDEN. NO.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you know where any of it could be had?
Mr. HAYDEN. No. I know it used to be out in plain sight in some of the book stores.
Mr. DOYLE. Can you identify any of those book stores by name or location ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I cannot offhand.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you think your memory could be refreshed?
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your question?
Mr. DOYLE. My question was whether or not the witness now recalled the name or location of any book stores which carried Communist literature which the witness states he now realizes advocated the overthrow of our American form of government. Were any of them in Hollywood ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I remember a book store, I don't know if it is in existence any more; the Lincoln Book Store, I think it was. I don't know where it was.
Mr. DOYLE. When was that?
Mr. HAYDEN. 1946. 
Mr. DOYLE. Did you ever receive literature from that book store ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I went in there once or twice,
Mr. DOYLE. Did they ever hand you some literature for free distribution?
Mr. HAYDEN. There was a lot of throw-away stuff on the table, as I remember it.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated you came to think there was a great service to do the country and the industry. I suppose you were referring to the moving-picture industry. Does the moving-picture industry, in your judgment, need any service in connection with who are and who are not Communists and who were Communists previously, and if so, what service?
Mr. HAYDEN. My thought on that was simply, as I guess is common knowledge now, there is a great furor in Hollywood about the whole situation. My idea was that if ex-Communists, or people who had been affiliated with Communist fronts, felt they could stand up  INDUSTRY 153 and be counted and be judged on the facts, it would clarify the situa- tion.
Mr. DOYLE. Is it or not a fact that the moving-picture industry or colony has been pretty actively endeavoring to clean up the situation? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I think that would expedite it.
Mr. DOYLE. You haven't answered my question.
Mr. HAYDEN. I am sorry.
Mr. DOYLE. I will ask it this way: To your knowledge has the moving-picture industry been endeavoring to clean up its own house.
Mr. HAYDEN. I certainly think it has. 
Mr. DOYLE. Do you think it is doing a pretty good job of it? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I think it is; so far as I know. 
Mr. DOYLE. I take it your voluntary testimony this morning is what you feel should be done by other former Communists who happened to be engaged in the art of acting?
Mr. HAYDEN. That it is. That is up to them, but that is my re- action. 
Mr. DOYLE. As you testified, I quickly made notes of this part of your testimony: I was boiling inside. If I could do something about conditions, it might justify my being an actor with high income and pleasant working conditions. Do you recall stating substantially that?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DoYLE. What were the conditions that you were boiling up in- side about, that you wanted to help correct? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I think it was a peculiarly personal thing with me. I came into the industry with an irregular background, with no back- ground in the conventional way of earning a living, having always been at sea. I suddenly found myself making a lot of money and not doing a great deal of work for it, and I felt a responsibility I should have had earlier as an American citizen. I had never thought politically before. All of this came to focus at one time, and, un- fortunately perhaps, the increment that set it off was my experience in Yugoslavia. (Representative Kearney enters hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. At that time you were not interested in any economic conditions facing our country; it only involved your personal boiling up inside ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. That is very close to being correct. 
Mr. DOYE. Am I correct?
Mr. HAYDEN. You are very nearly correct.
Mr. DOYLE. It was a personal matter'?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. When Bea Winters in June 1946 handed you an appli- cation and asked why you didn't jbin the party-I believe that was your testimony?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. And then told you you could not be a member of a cell where all members were actors, for security reasons, didn't it then occur to you there was something phony or dangerous about the 154  Communist Party, when, for security reasons, you could not belong to a cell where actors belonged?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; it did.
Mr. DOYLE. What occurred to you?
Mr. HAYDEN. As I said before, it was a rash move, an impulsive move, but I was under such a head of steam at the time I simply did not think the thing out very carefully. I went ahead anyway.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, you were so enraptured with the Par- tisans of Yugoslavia, their bravery and heroism, and you had so tied yourself up with Tompkins and others, that you could not immediately withdraw from the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I could have withdrawn, but I couldn't see clearly at that time. I think that is accurate.
Mr. DOYLE. Did it ever occur to you, between June and December 1946, what the security reasons were? What security reasons did you discover, if any ?
Mr. HAYDEN. My feeling on that was simply that at that time I was employed by Paramount, and I felt that had it been known to Paramount that I was a member of the Communist Party, that I would no longer be employed by Paramount.
Mr. DOYLE. YOU stated Captain Tompkins got some 75,000 words written on your biography before you "came to" sufficiently to go to him and call the whole thing pff.
Mr. HAYDEN. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. I think that is the substance of your testimony ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. What was it that caused you to "come to" sufficiently to go to this long-time friend of yours, adviser. He had been an adviser, I take it ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. What gave you the backbone to go to him? you discover about the 75,000 words? What did 
Mr. HAYDEN. The first draft he had knocked out actually fell by the wayside when I realized what I had done. It was not the book. I never read the book.
Mr. DOYLE. Was the book published ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Heaven forbid. No.
Mr. DOYLE. Was it ever reduced to typewritten form ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Only the first draft. My wife has frequently sug- gested I get it back. I don't know what happened to it.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you feel if you made a demand on Tompkins for it you would get it back?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have no idea.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you accept money or anything of value for the script ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Nothing whatever. expelled from the party. I have heard since he has been I don't know anything about that. 
Mr. DoYLE. That is all, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Moulder, do you have any questions ?
Mr. MOULDER. Not at this time.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. I want to preface my questions by stating that, speak- ing for myself only as a member of the committee, I certainly appreciate your cooperation with the committee in giving us so many de-  INDUSTRY 155 tails as you have concerning your affiliation with the Communist Party. However, it occurs to me that the names of your associates in the Communist Party are, for some reason, a little bit obscure, and I can understand why that is so. I know you have been through a lot of questioning, both by our very able investigators and by FBI agents, and the questions I ask you are for the purpose of prodding your memory and not for doubting your testimony. I wish you would go back and review your associations in Yugoslavia, and name the persons you were associated with there who were in the Partisan movement at that time.
Mr. HAYDEN. The first names that come to my mind are Colonel Manola, who at one time functioned in some executive capacity in Bari headquarters in Bari, Italy; and Col. Sergei Mackiedo, who was the man who notified me I had received this decoration from the Yugoslav Government.
Mr. VELDE. Were they American citizens ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No. These are Partisans. Do you want American citizens ?
Mr. VELDE. I want both.
Mr. HAYDEN. Thes two are Partisans. I can remember a man named Ivosevich, who was first mate.
Mr. VELDE. I wonder if you would spell that ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I-v-o-s-e-v-i-c-h, I think. There may be a "t" in it. And Nikolich, N-i-k-o-l-i-c-h.
Mr. VELDE. Did you meet Tito?
Mr. HAYDEN. I never met Tito.
Mr. VELDE. Proceed.
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't think of any other names.
Mr. VELDE. What about Americans?
Mr. HAYDEN. American OSS officers in Bari, Capt. Haus Tofte; Lt. Bob Thompson; Lt. Ward Ellen; Lieutenant Benson; Sgt. John Harnicker, Marine Corps; Major Koch; Maj. Linn Farish, who was killed in Greece. I guess there are a lot of others. Their names don't come to my mind.
Mr. VELDE. For the purpose of clarifying the record for people who may believe you are listing members of the Communist Party, if any of those you have listed are known to you to be or to have been members of the Communist Party, so state.
Mr. HAYDEN. TO my knowledge, none of them had any connection whatever. These were simply fellow officers or enlisted men with whom I worked.
Mr. VELDE. Was there an OSS officer from Pittsburgh ?
Mr. HAYDEN. There were a number from around the Pittsburgh district. There are only three I recall, though there are lots of others.
Mr. VELDE. Were they members of the Communist Party ? Can you identify any of them as members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No. I have heard subsequently that one of them, George Wuchinich, was in some way connected with the Communist Party. The others were strictly anti-Communist.
Mr. VELDE. Will you tell the committee how you felt, or know, that George Wuchinich was associated with the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't know when or how I heard it, but at some time since the war I have heard that mentioned.
Mr. VELDE. Scuttle butt? 156 INDUSTRY 
Mr. HAYDEN. Let's say scuttle butt.
Mr. VELDE. When was it you made your first trip back to the States after being in Yugoslavia?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think late November or early December 1944.
Mr. VELDE. Will you again review-I was gone part of the time you testified, for a vote-will you again review in more or less detail who were on the boat you came on, where you went, and what happened during the time you were back in the States in 1944.
Mr. HAYDEN. The boat I came on was a transport. Ninety-nine percent of the people on it were Regular Army and Air Force personnel coming on some rotation, I imagine. A few from OSS were coming home. At the time I came here, or shortly afterward, I flew to the west coast to visit Tompkins.
Mr. VELDE. What port did you enter?
Mr. HAYDEN. Staten Island. I reported in, came to Washington, got my leave papers, flew to San Francisco, and spent 5 or 6 days with Tompkins.
Mr. VELDE. Have you seen Mr. Tompkins recently?
Mr. HAYDEN. The last time I saw him was 2 years ago when my wife and I were living on a boat at San Pedro and he and his wife and son, who had worked for me once, strolled by. We discussed nothing.
Mr. VELDE. You had no conversation with him?
Mr. HAYDEN. No conversation except about boats.
Mr. VELDE. Will you proceed.
Mr. HAYDEN. After that 5 or 6 days I flew back to Washington, contacted Tompkins about who I could contact in New York, who would know about guerrila movements in the world.
Mr. VELDE. Will you go back to the 5 or 6 days you spent with Tompkins.
Mr. HAYDEN. It was just meeting people all the time, people coming. to the boat, and we got in the car and visited people's homes. Different evenings we woul dgo to people's homes, sit around, and talk to them. The only name brought out in the testimony was Dr. Ellwood Lyman, who to the best of my knowledge was not a Communist.
Mr. VELDE. I believe you mentioned it was during this time you met Steve Nelson?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. Where was this meeting?
Mr. HAYDEN. It may have been at the home of Dr. Lyman. It may have been at some other person's home.
Mr. VELDE. How many people were present?
Mr. HAYDEN. From 15 to 20 people.
Mr. VELDE. And the only one you remember, as I understand, is Steve Nelson?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is right.
Mr. VELDE. What was the subject of the conversation so far as Steve Nelson was concerned ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yugoslavia. He asked questions about it and I talked about it. It was just a general conversation. 
Mr. VELDE. Can you give in substance the conversation as you remember it?
Mr. HAYDEN. In capsule form, I would simply say I was the fellow who was home from the wars, and I was a first-hand connection with,  INDUSTRY 157 it, and therefore I was more or less the focal point of attention, and this did not displease me, I must admit, and I went on and on about what I had seen in Yugoslavia.
Mr. VELDE. I guess Steve Nelson was particularly interested in your story ?
Mr. HAYDEN. He didn't seem to be too much.
Mr. VELDE. Who did the most talking, Steve or you?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think it was split up among the entire party.
Mr. VELDE. Do you remember anybody else who was present at all, their first name? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I am sorry; I do not. No names come to my mind. I think this was a very haphazard gathering, though I may be wrong about that. 
Mr. VELDE. I may have forgotten your testimony about "Pop" Folkoff. Where did you meet him ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. In a restaurant.
Mr. VELDE. Was anybody else present at that meeting?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think we decided somebody named Baroway.
Mr. TAVENNER. Leo Baroway?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think so.
Mr. VELDE. Anybody else?
Mr. HAYDEN. Tompkins, Folkoff, this missing link, and myself.
Mr. VELDE. Was the restaurant on Marcus Street?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't remember.
Mr. VELDE. What was the subject of the conversation?
Mr. HAYDEN. Just general conversation. We weren't discussing the weather.
Mr. VELDE. I don't want to put you through the grill. I am inter- ested in finding out what the facts are.
Mr. HAYDEN. I appreciate that. I shouldn't have said general discussion.
Mr. VELDE. In your associations with the Communist Party, what did they ask you about ? You had important information.
Mr. HAYDEN. It was more colorful than anything else.
Mr. VELDE. What was the general nature of the conversation?
Mr. HAYDEN. I am afraid of being redundant here. I can only say it was a description of what I had seen in Yugoslavia. Folkoff maintained a very distant approach to the whole thing, smiled as though he knew all about it. There were no points made; no line was followed that I can recall in any way.
Mr. VELDE. Did he ask you about your experiences in Yugoslavia ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. I don't think I needed to be asked at the time. It was like pressing a button and I was off to the races.
Mr. VELDE. How did you happen to make contact with Mr. Folkoff?
Mr. HAYDEN. Tompkins told me he wanted me to meet him.
Mr. VELDE. Where were you staying at that time ?
Mr. HAYDEN. On Tompkins' schooner.
Mr. VELDE. Was Tompkins the sole owner of the schooner?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think he and his wife.
Mr. VELDE. IS he a wealthy man?
Mr. HAYDEN. I would say he is anything but wealthy. I think that-well, that is getting into the realm of conjecture again.
Mr. VELDE. There are degrees of being wealthy, like everything else. 158  
Mr. HAYDEN. He is a man who had led a rather spectacular career in the South Seas, in Europe, in Paris, as an artist and writer, and lie attempted to make the schooner pay and the schooner never paid. .Ir. VELDE. You mean by taking passengers?
Mr. .\AYDEN. College boys in the summer; yes.
Mr. VELDE. You said he was one of those who influenced you to become a member of the Communist Party ? MIr. HAYDEN. He forged the first link, you might say.
Mr. VEDE. Did you attend any other parties or meetings while you were in San Francisco?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; I may have, because all the time I was there there were meetings going on, group gatherings and get-togethers.
Mr. VELDE. I mean in the schooner?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. People would come in the evenings and sit and talk.
Mr. VELDE. Do you remember any of those people ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I remember one man who was apparently a close friend of Tompkins. I subsequently heard he was in disrepute with the party and had broken with it. He was a merchant seaman in the war. I would remember his name if I heard it.
Mr. VELDE. Did you have occasion to meet Bernadette Doyle?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. VELDE. Louise Bransten?
Mr. HAYDEN. No. 
Mr. VELDE. Do you know for a fact that Louise Bransten was not present at the meeting at the time you went to Dr. Lyman's home?
Mr. HAYDEN. She may have been. I know nothing about the name. It means nothing to me one way or the other.
Mr. VELDE. That is all. 
Mr. WooD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Some few days ago there was testimony given by Larry Parks, and as I recollect he definitely stated that no writer could color a picture for propaganda purposes. Do you agree with that ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I certainly do.
Mr. KEARNEY. That no writer could ?
Mr. HAYDEN. At the present time, with the feeling the way it is, I don't see how he could.
Mr. KEARNEY. How about the past ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think there would be more chance in the past.
Mr. KEARNEY. It has been done in the past ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think it has.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know if any of the 10 convicted Hollywood actors have again been employed by the motion-picture industry?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have no idea. I assume they are not.
Mr. KEARNEY. I understood you to say in the meetings you attended there was discussion, indirectly, of the overthrow of the Government by force and violence?
Mr. HAYDEN. There was a discussion of what they called dialectics.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were any well-known leaders of the Communist Party ever in attendance at any of the meetings you attended ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not to my recollection.  INDUSTRY 159 
Mr. KEARNEY. The name of Karen Morley has been injected here in your statement. Do you know whether she is still a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. -IAYDEN. I 1ave no idea.
Mr. KEARNEY. You do know she was a member? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I assume she was, because she tried to get me back into the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. Only Communists would do that ?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is my view.
Mr. KEARNEY. That is all.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know where Captain Tompkins is at the present time?
Mr. HAYDEN. He is in Los Angeles somewhere.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you received any communication from Captain Tompkins since you severed your connection with the party in 1946 ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Except for that time he came by the boat that Sunday afternoon, I have had no word from him at all.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you had any communication with Bea Winters since you severed your connection with the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. I met her in a market when my wife was in the hospital with a baby. We had small talk there.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you had communication with Folkoff since you severed your connection with the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No.
Mr. JACKSON. In your original contract with Paramount in 1940 and 1941, who handled the negotiation for Paramount ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I assume Holman did.
Mr. JACKSON. Who was head of the contract department ?
Mr. HAYDEN.
Mr. JACKSON.
Mr. HAYDEN.
Mr. JACKSON.
Mr. HAYDEN.
Mr. JACKSON. 
Mr. HAYDEN.
Mr. JACKSON. 
Mr. HAYDEN.
Mr. JACKSON. Hiller Innes. When did you do Virginia? Virginia began in May 1940. Who was the producer of Virginia ? Edward H. Griffith. Who was the director ? Edward H. Griffith. Who did the script? Virginia Van Upp. And on Bahama Passage? 
Mr. HAYDEN. The same people.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you say those people in the motion-picture industry who have for some reason or other associated themselves with the Communist Party or with front organizations, either as active members or as fellow travelers, lend their efforts to the party knowing the ultimate goal of the front organizations for which they appear'.
Mr. HAYDEN. I think that covers a lot of ground. I certainly think no, that the majority did not.
Mr. JACKSON. The majority did not?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO. I think that is particularly true of the Com- mittee for the First Amendment.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you do a picture in 1949 or 1950 called Asphalt Jungle ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. Who was the producer ? 160 INDUSTRY 
Mr. HAYDEN. Arthur Hornblow, Jr.
Mr. JACKSON. Who did the script ?
Mr. HAYDEN. John Huston andBen Madow. 
Mr. JACKSON. Who directed it?
Mr. HAYDEN. John Huston.
Mr. JACKSON. After your discharge from service, did you at any time go to the Communist Party headquarters in New York ?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO, I did not.
Mr. JACKSON. Or on the west coast ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I never did.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you at any time discuss politics with Russell Holman?
Mr. HAYDEN. No. I think Mr. Holman and Mr. Frank Freeman both figured I was in the midst of a kind of-well, I don't want to overwork the word "emotional," but that I was upset, and I think
Mr. Freeman was concerned, but thought it would dissipate itself.
Mr. JACKSON. Was Captain Tompkins personally acquainted with people in the movie colony ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Not to my knowledge. He once visited me on the set.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you attend any parties or affairs with Captain Tompkins in Hollywood? 
Mr. HAYDEN. No; never did.
Mr. JACKSON. Was it ever intended that the story he was doing on you was to be made into a script ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not to my knowledge; not to my knowledge. He has had no experience in screen playwriting at all. I think he had one idea in mind, which is the one I outlined. I have read random remarks in trade papers that certain phases of my activity would make a good story.
Mr. JACKSON. But whether he had that in mind, you don't know ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No, I don't.
Mr. JACKSON. You say Bea Winters is presently employed by a producer?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have heard she is.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know the producer's name ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I will think of it before I get through. I don't think of it now.
Mr. JACKSON.
Mr. HAYDEN.
Mr. JACKSON.
Mr. HAYDEN.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know at what studio the producer is working? I think he is an independent producer. At what studio No studio. They move around. During the period when you were a member of the party, how many meetings would you say you attended?
Mr. HAYDEN. One a week for 3 months, which would give us 12, and probably after that 6 or 8.
Mr. JACKSON. During the period covered by your membership you are only able to identify 2 members of the cell by name? 
Mr. HAYDEN. By name. I never knew their last names. That is the gimmick in this thing. That was a thing that was carefully guarded.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know Herbert K. Sorrell ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't know him. I never met him. I know who he is.  INDUSTRY 161 
Mr. JACKSON. Were representations ever made to you regarding the strike in Hollywood, representatives to assist in any way ?
Mr. HAYDEN. The whole focal point of the activity of this group of actors and actresses was to swing the Screen Actors' Guild in favor of Sorrell's CSU.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you ever personally active in support of the strike?
Mr. HAYDEN. I made a contribution to Polonsky which might be construed in support of it. Or it may have been for the party.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you ever attend meetings of any other cells of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. Excuse me. Is the name of the producer you were speaking of, who is the employer of Bea Winters, Sam Spiegel?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. Thank you.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you think the goals of the Communist Party were in any way different at the time you were a member than they are today?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think the ultimate goal is the same.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you consider, Mr. Hayden, that in your own mind you have been completely fair and completely frank with the committee, and that you have named for this committee every member of the Communist Party in the moving-picture industry of whom you have personal knowledge ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I do.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Hayden, has any member of your family, either by blood or marriage, at any time been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. No; they certainly have not.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. Po'TER. Mr. Hayden, I was interested in the influence that the Partisan 'movement had on you, and I am wondering what your observation would be of that same influence on other Americans who happened to be in OSS aiding the Partisan movement in Yugoslavia. Do you believe you were an exception or that other individuals closely identified with the Partisan movement would also be susceptible to the -Communist ideology through that association ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I can only say that to the best of my knowledge I know of no one else affected similarly. We were all deeply moved, but I have no way of knowing that anyone else had a parallel experience.
Mr. PoTTER. Through your contact with other American military personnel, did any of them at that time feel, or did you discuss among yourselves, that communism was a political star which we should tie onto ?
Mr. HAYDEN. We never got into any of that.
Mr. POrrER. You never discussed that ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not that I remember, not at all. All our work and conversation and thoughts seemed to be filled with just what was actually going on.
Mr. PorrTT. Do you have any knowledge at all of any effort during the last war to recruit military personnel into the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No; I have had no experience along that line. 162 INDUSTRY 
Mr. POTTER. If I recall your testimony correctly, your cell instructed you to contact this group, much larger group, of actors and actresses, -to get the guild to support the strike. Is that true ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. POTTER. In the cell meeting, did they tell you to go over and to make certain contacts in the other organization and work through them ? Did they give any names of persons you were to work through ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't remember exactly. I know it was suggested I attend that cocktail party, at which a large number of people were present. The suggestion was simply that I devote myself to this activity rather than the weekly meetings.
Mr. POTTER. Did you report back to the cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. I would go back once a month or so.
Mr. POTTER. TO report your progress?
Mr. HAYDEN. What was going on; yes.
Mr. POTTER. How successful were you with the other group ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I am sure, as a matter of fact, the move was very unsuccessful. It ran into the board of directors of the Screen Actors' Guild, and particularly into Ronald Reagan, who was a one-man battalion against this thing. He was very vocal and clear-thinking on it. I don't think many people realized how complex it was. I know I didn't. There was very little headway made.
Mr. PoTTER. I know I would, and I assume the rest of the committee would like to know the activities of a cell. We have had testimony to indicate it is a coffee-and-doughnut society. You have indicated part of it was devoted to a discussion of Communist Party principles. What did you discuss? Did you discuss, for example, membership, how you could increase your membership ?
Mr. HAYDEN. That was frequently a subject of discussion, whether anyone had ideas about new recruiting; who were near those being recruited; and things like that.
Mr. POTTER. What criteria did you have for knowing whether a person was ready for the cell, or ripe to be plucked ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I never recruited anybody. I assume whenever they found somebody receptive to their theories, they would get him to come to an open meeting, and in that way ask him to become an active member.
Mr. PorrER. Would you say it is difficult to be a half-hearted member when you are a member of a cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. One of the most impressive things about that group was the dedication of the people to it.
Mr. POTTER. Was that through discipline ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't know how to answer that. As far as I know, there was little or no discipline.
Mr. PoTER. At the meetings of your cell group, did you discuss at any time means of financing front organizations ? I never heard that discussed.
Mr. HAYDEF.
Mr. PorrER. You never heard that discussed ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I never heard it discussed.
Mr. POTTER. And you have given the committee a list of contributions that you have made ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.  163 
Mr. POTrER. I assume you have been solicited for many other con- tributions for organizations that are front organizations or Communist organizations, to which you did not give?
Mr. HAYDEN. I assume that is true. An actor is solicited for contributions all the time.
Mr. PorTER. An actor and a politician.
Mr. WOOD. Is that all, Mr. Potter ?
Mr. POTTER. Yes. 
Mr. WooD. Did you have questions, Mr. Moulder ?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes.
Mr. WOOD. Proceed.
Mr. MOULDER. Referring to your testimony of the Communist movement having a tremendous effect on you following Yugoslavia, as I understand, that was caused not because of your sympathy with the Communist philosophy, but was stirred by the struggle of a minority group seeking to achieve economic security ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. No. The only thing we were struggling against was the Nazi occupation forces. We knew many of those people had been underground for years, but the one struggle we saw was against the Germans.
Mr. MOULDER. You were a member of the Communist Party only 4 or 5 months ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Let's say 6 and be on the outside.
Mr. MOULDER. That was as a result of continual solicitation of an acquaintance of yours, and followed the exciting period you had encountered while in Yugoslavia ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think that is right.
Mr. MOULDER. During the period of your membership in the party, you decided that the philosophy they were discussing was not in accord with your philosophy of government ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. In the first place, if I may say so-and I say it because probably a good many people have been in a similar positionI never understood it. I was constantly told if I would read 40 pages of Dialectical and Historical Materialism I would understand communism. I never got beyond page 8, and I tried. several times. 
Mr. MOULDER. You resigned? 
Mr. HAYDEN. I quit.
Mr. MOULDER. And severed all connections with the Communist Party? 
Mr. HAYDEN. That I did.
Mr. MOULDER. That was several years ago ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Over 4 years ago. 
Mr. MOULDER. It is my understanding that the request for your appearance before this committee was not in the spirit of any reflection on or any doubt of your loyalty to our country, but it was an effort on the part of the committee to secure information regarding Communist activities.
Mr. HAYDEN. That is the way it seems to me.
Mr. MOULDER. I believe your courageous services in the Marine Corps and in the OSS deserve commendation, and your testimony in my opinion has been straightforward and honest.
Mr. HAYDEN. Thank you. 81595-51-pt. 1---8 164 INDUSTRY 
Mr. MOULDER. From the testimony adduced here before this com- mittee, I can reach only one conclusion, so far as I am concerned, and that is that you have joined with us in our efforts to expose the evils of communism: that you are an intensely loyal American citizen and you deserve commendation for the services you have rendered as a Marine Corps soldier and for your testimony before this committee.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle, do you have further questions ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. May I be permitted to ask three or four more questions that I deferred asking before so that my colleagues could ask their questions? I think you said in 1944 "It built up a tremendous curiosity. Something was going on in the world that I wanted to find out about." Do you recall so testifying ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. What was there going on in the world that you wanted to find out about that built up such a curiosity ? Did you find out ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think I, found out to my complete satisfaction. I simply had never thought of the conflicting forces in the world before.
Mr. DOYLE. What did you find out that satisfied that curiosity that had come to the surface, I think you said, in 1944 ?
Mr. HAYDEN. You mean the curiosity arose in 1944? 
Mr. DOYLE. I think that was the substance of your language. You said one time you went to see Tompkins and it built up a tremendous curiosity that something was going on in the world that you wanted to find out about.
Mr. HAYDEN. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. Why did you go to Tompkins to find out what was going on in the world? 
Mr. HAYDEN. It so happened he came to me. I think it is one of the characteristics of our country and of all democracies that as a rule we don't endeavor to impress upon people-I think we don't attempt to do it enough-the things we believe in. Communists are the. opposite. They give you no peace. When a Communist like Tompkins finds anyone at all susceptible, the pressure is on unremittingly.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you find anything going on in the world as to the activities of the Communist Party in relation to what was going on in America or other freedom-loving nations, and if so, what?
Mr. HAYDEN. Only that this whole totalitarian Communist move is a tremendous force in the world.
Mr. DOYLE. When you refer to this totalitarian movement, what is that movement, in your judgment?
Mr. HAYDEN. An endeavor to take over the entire world.
Mr. DOYLE. Are you testifying now that the intention and purpose of the Communist Party of the United States is to, by force, take control of the United States of America Government?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; I do. 
Mr. DOYLE. What was your answer?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. You haven't been a member of the Communist Party since 1948?
Mr. HAYDEN. 1946.
Mr. DOYLE. Since 1946. Was that your firm conclusion and opin- ion at the time you resigned from the Communist Party of the United States ?  INDUSTRY 165 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; it was.
Mr. DOYLE. Is it still your opinion
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes; it is.
Mr. DOYLE. But you were solicited in 1947 to rejoin the Communist Party, were you not?
Mr. HAYDEN. I was.
Mr. DOLE. What inducements, if any, were given you at that time to rejoin the Communist Party? 'What arguments were put 'up to you ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. There was very little argument. One thing I learned was that you can't argue with a Communist. His mind is made up, and you can talk from now to breakfast and it won't do any good.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you been solicited by anyone but Karen Morley :since 1947 to rejoin the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have not; not at all. 
Mr. DOYLE. I am going to ask you this question. I don't know if it was asked by any other member of the committee when I went to the floor to vote or not. You are here before a committee of the United States Congress, a duly constituted committee of the House of Representatives, every Member of which is elected every 2 years by the American people. What is your opinion of the jurisdiction, the purpose, the functioning of this committee, before which you have testified 3 hours today ? Is it, in your judgment, serving a useful purpose? Is it serving a necessary purpose? If so, to what extent, and if not, why ? Is that a fair question ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. I am really asking for your honest-to-God truthful opinion. I have never asked that question before, but I think in view .of the manner in which you have come before this committee, and the apparent frankness with which you have answered questions, if you :have any criticism of the manner in which this committee functions, I would like to know what that criticism is. You have now been be-fore us 3 hours.
Mr. HAYDEN. I think of no criticism whatever.
Mr. DOYrE. Have you any suggestions to make of ways and means in which we might be more helpful in meeting this problem of the -determination of the Communist Party of the United States to over:throw, if necessary by force, our Government ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think that the request and suggestion that was made by the chairman of the committee, of which I was apprised by the counsel of the committee, that people come up and speak up, is the thing I came here today thinking it was an extremely fine thing, a con-structive thing. I don't mean to attach any importance to myself as an individual who is out of balance, but I have had the feeling that my appearance before the committee could serve a very useful purpose. I hope it does.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde, did you have additional questions?
Mr. VELDE. Yes. Referring back to your trip back to the States -when you said there were several parties in San Francisco, do you now recall any other people that you met at these parties?
Mr. HAYDEN. I thought of the name of this merchant seaman I said -was expelled. His first name is Jim.
Mr. VELDE. He has been expelled from the Communist Party ? 166 INDUSTRY 
Mr. HAYDEN. I heard he was, subsequently.
Mr. VELDE. Did you ever meet Steve Murin ? Nt by that name.
Mr. VELDE. Did you ever meet Dwight Freeman?
Mr. HAYDEN. I know that name. Did he have another first name ? I know a man named Freeman.
Mr. VELDE. I think he is also known as James Freeman. This was
Mr. HAYDEN. brought out in the prior Hawaiian hearings. Do you feel that the Freeman you met in San Francisco, or knew, was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I really don't have any idea. Tompkins got me to see a man named Freeman who, I think, was a lithographer, or en- gaged in printing of some kind, in some way. It seems to me his first name was Bud, but I have no opinion at all on the question which you ask.
Mr. VELDE. Did you meet Freeman's wife Pearl?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. VELDE. I believe you said you came in to New York and then came to Washington? 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. Did you contact any member of the Communist Party, or did any member of the Communist Party contact you, here in Washington ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not at all that I know of.
Mr. VELDE. How long were you here?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think the total leave was 5 weeks.
Mr. VELDE. I mean here in Washington.
Mr. HAYDEN. I suppose half of that time, 21/2 weeks.
Mr. VELDE. You spent some time in Los Angeles, too, didn't you?
Mr. HAYDEN. I came through Los Angeles and made a couple phone calls. I called Mr. Freeman at Paramount, just to say hello. I never left the airport, as I remember it.
Mr. VELDE. Going back to the Yugoslavia operations as a member of the OSS, what do you feel was the general attitude of the OSS toward the Partisan movement?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is an involved matter.
Mr. VELDE. I realize that.
Mr. HAYDEN. The feeling was high and strong. I was only associated with the Partisans. One man, named Gov' Muslin, I met him on leave, and he was pro-Mihailovitch. There was every shade of opinion.
Mr. VELDE. Did OSS members, including yourself, have any contact with the Chetniks?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. VELDE. What was the attitude of the OSS toward the Chetniks?
Mr. HAYDEN. Until Tito merged, I think we were following the British dictate, which was to support Mihailovitch and the Chetniks.
Mr. VELDE. Wasn't the attitude of the OSS members at that time to belittle the efforts of the Chetniks ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No. There was a certain element of OSS officers who, I believe were pro-Mihailovitch and stayed that way. Others started that way and swung to Tito.
Mr. VELDE. Have you ever met a man named Eric Cogill?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have never heard the name.  INDUSTRY 167 
Mr. VELDE. Have you ever met, to your recollection, any member of the Soviet consulate at San Francisco, or the Soviet consulate at Los Angeles, or the Soviet Embassy in Washington ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Certainly not of the Soviet Embassy in Washington ,or of the Soviet consulate in Los Angeles, though it is possible I met .a member of the Embassy in San Francisco, though I do not remember.
Mr. VELDE. Would you remember if I mentioned his name ?
Mr. HAYDEN. There is only one way to find out. If the name rings :any bell I will say that it does.
Mr. VELDE. Have you ever met Gregory Kheifets ? 
Mr. HAYDEN. No.
Mr. VEDzE. Then to the best of your recollection you have never met a member of the Soviet diplomatic force in the United States?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not to the best of my recollection.
Mr. WOOD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. I have just been informed that counsel is going to straighten out what I had proposed to question him about.
Mr. WoOD. Anything further?
Mr. JACKSON. Were any representations made to you to appear before the committee and give testimony ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I was subpenaed to appear before the committee.
Mr. JACKSON. There were no representations made by the industry or anybody in the industry ?
Mr. HAYDEN. NO. 
Mr. JACKSON. Were any representations made to you at any time not to appear before the committee?
Mr. HAYDEN. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. You have not been approached by any person to appear or not to appear before the committee ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Not in any way.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER; Have you been in contact with, or have you met, any of the members of your particular cell since you left the party?
Mr. HAYDEN. Outside of the day that I bumped into Bea Winters in the market, I don't believe I have ever even seen a member of that cell.
Mr. POTTER. How does it happen that Bea Winters was the one who talked you into becoming a member of the party when your good friend, Captain Tompkins, was the one who constantly advocated the Communist cause ? Why didn't Captain Tompkins approach you to become a member instead of Bea Winters ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I can only imagine he was waiting for a tactical approach. And he was living in another district.
Mr. POTTER. You stated that you were the only actor in your cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is correct.
Mr. POTTER. Did you have any liaison with other Communist cells in Hollywood ? ,
Mr. HAYDEN. None whatsoever.
Mr. POTTER. You knew that other actors were members of the Communist Party? You didn't feel you were alone?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have some comment on that. When I joined I was under the impression, perhaps erroneously, that there were a good many name actors in the party. Now, what is "name"actor?
Mr. POTTER. Your cell was composed of technicians ? 168 INDUSTRY I heard it said once that it was too bad a small, select group of actors could not be formed, but for some reason it could not be formed.
Mr. PorTER. From the testimony that you have given before the committee, and the forthright maimer in which you have given the testimony, do you expect any reprisals from this testimony by the motion-picture industry ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. 
Mr. HAYDEN. I do not. I have thought about that. I will be frank, I have thought about it. Whether it is natural wishful thinking or confidence, I don't know, but I feel that when the mistake of 5. months is weighed against other things, I really don't see any justification for it.
Mr. POTER. And I assume from that, that the people in the motion- picture industry knew about it?
Mr. HAYDEN. I would disagree with that. I was subpenaed to appear before this committee approximately 5 days before I started: working in the picture in which I am now engaged. At that time there was considerable consternation on the part of producers, simply because I had been subpenaed. They asked that I issue a statement denying past or present afiliation. I issued a statement denying present affiliation.
Mr. POTTER. So you think it came as a distinct surprise to them?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think today's testimony will come as quite a surprise.
Mr. POTtER. When Mr. Parks was here recently he said he belonged to a select group of actors. You had no knowledge of that while you were a member of the party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I was under the impression no such group existed.
Mr. POTTER. And you were surprised when you heard that testimony of Mr. Parks?
Mr. HAYDEN. I was. I never had a firm opinion about Larry Parks.. I did not know. I know in these meetings of actors occasionally it would be suggested that perhaps Parks would support something, and it was always said, "No; he would not." I remember that clearly.
Mr. PorrER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Hayden, what, if anything, do you know about any fund-raising activities in Los Angeles for the benefit of the Communist movement, while you were connected with it?
Mr. HAYDEN. I know nothing about that except there was one check I wrote for Abe Polonsky, but on whose behalf, I have no information: on that.
Mr. WOOD. Through Communist channels have you any information?
Mr. HAYDEN. No, none.
Mr. Woon. You never heard that discussed at any meetings you attended ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I never did.
Mr. WooD. I believe you said that during the time you belonged to* the party you had weekly meetings, at least for 3 or 4 months of that time?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is right.
Mr. WOOD. And that those weekly meetings were attended by from 10 to 20 or more eople?
Mr. HAYDEN. Ves.  169 
Mr. WOOD. Those meetings were not publicized ?
Mr. HAYDEN. No; on the contrary.
Mr. WooD. They were surreptitiously held?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. WOOD. And you knew other people were meeting surrepti- tiously and discussing whatever matters were discussed 
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes.
Mr. WOOD. And you are telling the committee that notwithstanding these meetings of three or four times a month with that group of people, meeting in secret at the homes of individuals, you never got sufficiently familiar with the identity of any of those people to be able to enlighten the committee as to the identity of any but the two or three you have stated
Mr. HAYDEN. That is the case.
Mr. Woon. It never occurred to you to make any inquiry about it?
Mr. HAYDEN. It did not. I think I can say, in regard to that, that shortly after I began to proceed in this, I became aware of the fact that I had to set my own house in order, that I had to get myself out of it, and my feeling was quite strong on that until I got myself under control.
Mr. WOOD. But you did realize, before your separated yourself from the movement, that it was not the character of movement you wanted to be connected with?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is'right.
Mr. WooD. And even so, you leave with this committee the im- pression you did not get sufficiently curious about your associates to inquire as to who they were
Mr. HAYDEN. That is right.
Mr. WooD. And you cannot tell us a single name of others in that cell
Mr. HAYDEN. I cannot. 
Mr. WooD. Anything further?
Mr. VELDE. Did you attend a Progressive Party rally at Madison Square Garden in 1947 ? "Mr.HAYDEN. At which Mr. Wallace spoke? Yes.
Mr. VELDE. Whom did you go there with
Mr. HAYDEN. My wife, who ishere today.
Mr. VELDE. Was there anyone else in your group ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I am strongly of the impression we went alone.
Mr. VELDE. Did you meet any persons at that rally you can identify as being members of the Communist Party 
Mr. HAYDEN. To the best of my recollection we went in, sat down, got out of the meeting, and left. 
Mr. VELDE. How long did you stay in New York on that occasion
Mr. HAYDEN. I think we stayed 2 or 3 days. It was on our way home from the coast of Maine to California. 
Mr. VELDE. During that time you didn't meet or talk with any members of the Communist Party who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party?
Mr. HAYDEN. I don't think I met anyone of any political nature at all. 
Mr. VELDE. Can you tell the committee what prompted you to at- tend that rally 170  
Mr. HAYDEN. I think I can. As I said, the entire year of 1947 I was not working. I was under contract, but I did not work. I stayed on the boat in Santa Barbara. I was married in May of that year and my wife and I went East for - months. Then I began to feel a desire to at least participate in something of a constructive nature. We were in New Y ork on our way to the west coast when this rally was being held.
Mr. VELDE. Here had you come from before you went to the rally in New York?
Mr. HAYDEN. Maine. Then we went out to California, and it was that same feeling that motivated me in joining the Committee for the First Amendment when I was approached. It was a desire to talk about something outside the weather, which was what we had been talking about all summer in Maine.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. DOYLE. The law under which this counittee functions, as far as jurisdiction is concerned, provides that we may inquire into the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States. Have you any information which you can give this committee which you have not already given on that subject? If you have, will you give it to us, please? Do you understand my question ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. I believe that I have covered just about every- thing I possibly have access to in my own mind.
Mr. DOYLE. The law also provides that we shall inquire into the distribution and diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda that is instigated by and comes from foreign countries. Have you any information on that?
Mr. HAYDEN. I have no information on that whatsoever. 
Mr. DOYLE. Did you acquire any information on that while you were a member?
Mr. HAYDEN. I did not. 
Mr. DOYLE. Or before or at all? 
Mr. HAYDEN. No.
Mr. DOYLE. You have testified twice, in answer to my questions, that you are satisfied one of the objectives of the Communist Party of the United States is to forcibly overthrow, if necessary, the form of government set out by our American Constitution. Have you anything to add as to the ways and means they would undertake to accomplish that objective?
Mr. HAYDEN. I do not.
Mr. DoYLE. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to make certain that your testimony is clear in regard to one matter. I asked you to name those whom you know to be members of the Communist Party who were connected with the Screen Actor's Guild with which you worked, and you named those that you knew ?
Mr. HAYDEN. I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. And you named several others, members of the Communist Party, with which you had come in contact. Then, in the course of your testimony, you indicated that you could name others, but it would be a matter of conjecture, and I stated to you that I did not want you to testify from conjecture. Have you given to the in- 171 vestigators of this committee a list of names of those to whom you have referred ?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is all.
Mr. WooD. By that I understand that the list of names you have given the investigators are in addition to those you have named before this committee.
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes, they are.
Mr. WooD. And do I understand those names have been furnished the investigators by you only upon some conjecture you have that they may have been members of the party ?
Mr. HAYDEN. My feeling is that the only ones I know to have been members are those active in the cell and Karen Morley. would have to be conjecture. Any others 
Mr. WooD. That is not entirely responsive to my question. Do I understand that the list of names you have furnished the investigators, that you have no knowledge as to whether they have ever been members of the Communist Party or not?
Mr. HAYDEN. That is true. I do not know.
Mr. WOOD. But your purpose in furnishing the list of names to the investigators was that by proper investigation on the part of the investigators of the committee and the committee itself, that their connection with the Communist Party might be revealed with reference to some of them?
Mr. HAYDEN. I think if they were asked it would be developed.
Mr. WooD. Was that your purpose in furnishing to the staff of this committee that list of names ?
Mr. HAYDEN. It was.
Mr. WooD. And no other reason?
Mr. HAYDEN. No, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask one more question: Did you testify that Karen Morley was a member of the cell?
Mr. HAYDEN. She was not a member of the cell.
Mr. WooD. The committee will adjourn until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. (Thereupon, at 1:15 p. m. on Tuesday, April 10, 1951, an adjournment was taken until Wednesday, April 11, 1951, at 10 a. m.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 1 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVrTlES, Washingto', D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10:15 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee menrbers present: Representatives John S. Wood, Fran- cis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, Harold H. Velde, Bernard W, Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, investigator; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor. 
Mr. WOOD. I will ask that the people in the audience please refrain from audible conversation during the hearings. ' Mr. Counsel, are you ready to proceed 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I'would like to give Mr. Martin .IPopper, an attorney from New York, an opportunity to make a motion .before the committee at this time.
Mr. PorrPE. Mr. Chairman and members of the committee, I repre:sent Mr. J. Edward Bromberg.
Mr. WooD. For the purposes of identification, will you give your name and address ? 
Mr. POPPER. Martin Popper, 160 Broadway, New York. 
Mr. Bromberg has been subpenaed to appear before this committee tomorrowmorning. I have submitted to the counsel for the committee a number of medical documents indicating the serious condition of
Mr. Bromberg's health, and at his suggestion I am now making a formal application to have Mr. Bromberg's subpena vacated on the ground of serious physical condition.
Mr. Bromberg is a victim of heart disease, having suffered a heart -attackwithin the past month, and as the medical certificates submitted to Mr. Tavenner indicate, Mr. Bromberg would be in serious danger ,of suffering another heart attack under any kind of anxiety, under any kind--Mr. WooD. Have you the certificate?
Mr. PoPPEm. Yes; I do. I have already submitted photostatic copies.
Mr. Woon Suppose you read the certificates you have. 173 174  
Mr. POPPER. There are two. INDUSTRY The first is from Dr. Walter Modell, a distinguished heart specialist of New York, under whose care Mr. Bromberg presently is, who says:
Mr. J. Edward Bromberg has asked me to write to you. Mr. Bromberg has rheumatic heart disease. He first visited me because of this in August 1944, and since he has taken residence in this city I have attended him regularly for it. Mr. Bromberg discovered that he had rheumatic heart disease in his youth. The exact time it developed has not been established. Since its discovery and until recently his heart disease has been well compensated and he has required no treatment. Since December of 1950 he has complained of symptoms of cardiac dysfunction. This was treated with mercurial diuretics with relief. In March 1951, in Philadelphia, he suffered a frank attack of congestive failure. This was treated with digitalis and mercurial diuretics. This form of treatment has been continued, and Mr. Bromberg is now symptom free. Treatment and dietary restriction will be required for an indefinite period. I have also advised Mr. Bromberg to refrain from emotional upsets and to avoid tensions and anxieties. There is the possibility that unless this practice is followed there will be further attacks of heart failure. I also have a certificate from the physician at Philadelphia who treated Mr. Bromberg at the time of his heart attack within the past month, and if the committee wants me to, I shall be glad to read that as well, but it merely confirms that fact and indicates the course of treatment. I am also ready to present to the committee the electrocardiographs taken of Mr. Bromberg's condition in March of 1951 at the time of the heart attack, for which attack and general symptoms he is still under treatment. I would under these circumstances suggest that reason and safety itself would indicate the correctness of vacating the subpena, a course which is followed even in its most normal sense even in judicial proceedings of a kind which don't bring in this kind of anxiety.
Mr. WALTER. Do those affidavits go so far as to express the opinion that if your client appears his health and his life would be endangered ?
Mr. POPPER. There is no question but thatMr. WALTER. Do the affidavits say that?
Mr. POPPER. First of all, they are not affidavits, sir. They are medical certificates. It says that any kind of emotional upset or anxiety create the possibility of a further heart attack at this time. There is no doubt in my mind that any inquiry of any of these physicians, because they have already been asked this question, would indicate that an appearance before this committee at this time leads to the definite danger of a heart attack, with whatever serious and terrible consequences may come therefrom. I should imagine, Congressman Walter, that under these circumstances the gravity of the responsibility on any public body is immeasurable.
Mr. WALTER. We realize that, except I know, having practiced law for a great many years, that you can get doctors to make statements as to almost anything, and even though those statements don't go so far as to indicate that this man's health would be endangered by an appearance hereMr. POPPER. Not quite. I mean as far as these certificates are concerned. In the first place, I offered to the committee the electrocardiographs of Mr. Bromberg, and as a matter of fact I have already indicated to Mr. Tavenner that we haven't the slightest objection to  175 any check being made on this by anybody that the committee sees fit.
Mr. WOOD. Let's see if I get that statement correctly. Say it again.
Mr. POPPER. I have already indicated to Mr. Tavenner at the time of the submission of the certificates that we haven't the slightest objection to your making your check as to the accuracy of these certificates.
Mr. WOOD. If the committee approves, we will continue the subpena in force for 30 days, to give us an opportunity to make a further investigation about it.
Mr. POPPER. By all means. I have no objection at all. Does the committee want the document?
Mr. WOOD. File it, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I think I should ask counsel a question or two, since he has appeared here. I would like to know whether or not the witness is employed and working at the present time.
Mr. POPPER. He is not.
Mr. TAVENNER. I should state to the committee what I have done in connection with this matter, which of course has been very little, in view of the work that is piled upon the staff at the present moment. I have had copies of these certificates since Saturday, and I was called on the phone by counsel a day or two prior to that and I made the suggestion at the time that in a matter of this kind I would want to make a very thorough investigation, and he cooperated in every way about the making ofthat investigation. We have not had the opportunity to make it. However, at the time of service on March 7 the witness was engaged in the production of a play and was served at the theater.
Mr. DOYLE. Nighttime or daytime?
Mr. TAVENNER. I don't know the hour, but it is the play, Springtime for Henry, which was playing at the time. Effort has been made to serve him at his home, unsuccessfully, and I want to investigate all the circumstances about that, as well as the medical situation.
Mr. POPPER. By all means. However, Mr. Chairman, I think there are one or two implications that are unfair. In the first place, Mr. Bromberg is an actor. In the second place, he couldn't have been served at his home, since he was opening in a play at Baltimore, where "he was served at that time. The heart attack of which these certificates speak, occurred after the time of service. They occurred several -weeks thereafter.
Mr. RUSSELL. He was served in Wilmington, Del., at the DuPont.
Mr. TAVENNER. He was served in Wilmington after several attempts -over several days in order to make the service. We have here the investigator to testify if necessary.
Mr. POPPER. I think it is fair to tell the committee the place in Wilmington where he was served.
Mr. RUSSELL. Put Mr. Jones, committee investigator, on. He served -him at the DuPont Hotel in Wilmington, Del.
Mr. WooD. I don't think it is necessary to go further into it. In light of the statements here, I feel that the staff should make further investigation, and we will undertake to designate some physician. I assume that you, Mr. Popper, will be cooperative with us in having him .examined.
Mr. POPPER. Of course. I have already indicated that to counsel. 176 
Mr. WOOD. If it develops he is unable to come here for that purpose, the committee will take under advisement the question of sending a. subcommittee up to his place to take his testimony.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to call Mr. Marc Lawrence. 
Mr. MADDEN. Mr. Chairman and members of the committee, I am Murdaugh S. Madden, a Washington attorney, 1830 Jefferson Place NW. I represent Mr. Lawrence. He is under subpena to appear today and is persently in a sanitarium in Alhambra, Calif. I first contacted the committee through Mr. Tavenner on that matter about 10 days ago, and at that time I had not myself verified his condition. I went out there and satisfied myself that he physically could not appear at this time and checked with his doctors and got doctors' statements, which I have with me today. I am not asking that the committee vacate the subpena. The man's condition is such and can readily be verified as such that if it would bepossible for the committee to take testimony there at the sanitarium. or at his home, if he is in his home, within a reasonable time in the future, that is the request that I would like to make now.
Mr. WOOD. How long in your opinion would it be before he would' be able to come here?
Mr. MADDEN. When I left California 4 days ago the doctors thought that it would be maybe 2 to 3 weeks. I got word yesterday that he had since been sent to the sanitarium, and the doctors now will not say when he might improve. His is a mental and physical break-down that is bordering on complete breakdown at this time, as I understand it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, when counsel got in touch with me- about it, we endeavored to have our investigators who were then in, California make some check of this matter. They were unable to., locate the physicians at the time, or the witness. We have found out later that the witness had gone out into the country where he could be alone, but we have not been able at this time to make a check of the medical facts reported here or to interview the doctors in theshort period of time which we have to work on it. For that reason,. we feel that we should have a sufficient amount of time to investi-- gate it.
Mr. WooD. Supposing we continue the subpena in force for a period of 2 weeks and in that time get some definite statement from the physician if we possibly can and submit it to counsel for the committeehere, and we will be able to take appropriate action and notify you. .what is desired.
Mr. MADDEN. Thank you. I would like to repeat the request that if it appears that he will'then be in no condition to come if it would be possible for a subcommittee or some other type of questioning to. be taken out there. He is fully prepared to answer completely and. honestly all the questions of the committee.
Mr. WOOD. I am sure the committee will explore that possibility and take whatever action it thinks the circumstances will warrant.
Mr. MADDEN. Thank you.
Mr. DoYLE. May I ask this question, Mr. Chairman, of counsel:: Would his doctors stipulate that he was physically able to testify out there, or would we be confronted with a surprise statement by a doctor out there that he wasn't physically able to testify there either; if his health was so bad ?  I DUSTRY 177 M1r. MADDEN. No, Mr. Doyle. I think that it is possible that the questioning might be similar to the questioning that I had to conduct last week, which was very tenuous and took a great deal of time, but 1 am sure that if the man is alive he will submit to questioning.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to call Mr. Will Geer.
Mr. WooD. Is Mr. Geer present ?
Mr. GEER. Which one is the hot seat?
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Geer, do you solemnly swear that the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ? 
Mr. GEER. I do, sir.
Mr. KENNY. Do you wish counsel to identify themselves again, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment, please. SWORN TESTIMONY OF WILL GEER, ACCOMPANIED BY ROBERT W. KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS, AS COUNSEL 