Mr. NELSON. Thomas W. Nelson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify herself for the record.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Rose S. Rosenberg, b-e-r-g.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Nelson ?
Mr. NELSON. I was born February 24, 1913, in Little Rock, Wash.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside ?
Mr. NELSON. In Long Beach.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Long Beach?
Mr. NELSON. Approximately 4 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been.
Mr. NELSON. I have been educated in the public schools of the State of Washington. I was graduated from the Washington schools in 3901 3902 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Olympia, Wash. In my grammar school education I was valedictorian of my class. From Olympia High School I was salutatorian of a class of 160 pupils. I have a bachelor's degree from Western College of Education. I have had 1 year of graduate training at the University of Washington.
Mr. TAVENNEE. When did you receive your bachelor's degree?
Mr. NELSON. In 1937. The graduate training at the University of Washington completes my formal education.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you complete your graduate training?
Mr. NELSON. In 1941.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your employment has been since 1941.
Mr. NELSON. I have been employed by the United States Government from 1941 to 1945. I was employed by the United Nations from 1945 to 1947. I have been employed by the United States Government from 1947 to 1949. I have been employed by Los Angeles County in 1949, and I have been employed by the Monrovia-Duarte Evening High School 1949-51.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where is that located ?
Mr. NELSON. It is located in Monrovia, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you employed as a teacher there? Is that what you mean ?
Mr. NELSON. Yes, sir; that is what I mean. From 1951 to 1952 I was employed by the State of California. In 1952 I was employed by the Arcadia Unified School District. Since 1952 I have been employed by Los Angeles County.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you mean that your employment between 1951 and 1952 by the State of California was in the teaching profession?
Mr. NELSON. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of that employment?
Mr. NELSON. I was a State parole officer.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your employment since 1952 ?
Mr. NELSON. With Los Angeles County.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what capacity ?
Mr. NELSON. A medical social worker.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to say that from 1941 to 1945 you were employed by the United States Government. What was the nature of that employment ?
Mr. NELSON. For some months I was employed as a field grant supervisor at Yakima, Wash., where I was assigned to the administration of the Federal grant program administering relief to migratory farm laborers. Later I was promoted to regional grant supervisor, supervising the program throughout the States of Oregon, Washington, and Idaho, with headquarters at Portland, Oreg. When the Department of Agriculture Farm Security Administration program was transferred to the War Food Administration, Office of Labor, I transferred to that agency in 1943, and continued with it until 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time did you have any assignment in the Agriculture Department in Washington, D. C.?
Mr. NELSON. I did not. COMiMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF, AREA 3903, 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you said that from 1945 to 1947 you were employed by UNRRA. What was the nature of your employment during that period of time ?
Mr. NELSON. I was a welfare officer in the displaced persons program, assigned to the American Zone of Germany.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the general nature of your duties there?
Mr. NELSON. The general nature of my duties was to set up and supervise the welfare programs for the victims of Nazi terror who were housed in displaced persons' camps as a military measure until until such time as they might be returned to their lands of origin.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you told us that from 1947 to 1949 you were again employed by the United States Government. Will you tell us, please, in what capacity ?
Mr. NELsON. I was a welfare officer with military government in Japan.
Mr. TAVENNEE. Where were you stationed in Japan ?
Mr. NELSON. I was stationed at Nagoya, spelled N-a-g-o-y-a. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, the reason for the termination of your services in Japan ?
Mr. NELsON. Chairman Moulder, in view of the introductory remark which you made to this group on last Monday, wherein you stated that it was not the intention of this committee to delve into the relationship between employer and employee, I wonder if you would ask Mr. Tavenner to kindly withdraw that question.
Mr. MOULDER. The request is denied. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. Will you repeat the question, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you read him the question. (The pending question was read by the reporter.)
Mr. NELSON. I will decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment, supplemented by the fifth amendment of the United States Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of the termination of your services in Japan ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. In response to the question, I would say that, in my opinion, that question is beyond the area of jurisdiction of this committee as set up by your function, according to my understanding, and I respectfully decline to answer on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. SCHERER. Do you mean we cannot investigate Communist sub- version even in Allied military government ?
Mr. NELSON. I don't believe there is anything in the record with regard to that, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. There may be before we get through.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you released from military service under the provisions of Public Law 808 as a security risk and returned to the United States from Japan?
Mr. NELSON. Mr. Tavenner, I was never in military service. I was classified 2-B because of the essential nature of my work at War Food Administration.
Mr. TAVENNEE. You were subject to military authority in Japan, were you not? 3904 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. NELSON. I was a civilian employee of the Department of the Army, military government.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, but you were subject to military authority while there ?
Mr. NELSON. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were? I didn't understand you.
Mr. SCHERER. He said he was; certainly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well then. Were you returned to the United States under the provisions of Public Law 808 from Japan as a security risk? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. SCHERER. Why were you returned?
Mr. NELSON. I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask you direct the witness to answer the question,
Mr. Chairman, as to why he was returned.
Mr. MOULDER. As requested by Mr. Scherer, the witness is directed to answer. 
Mr. NELSON. I decline to answer the question on the basis of the privileges allowed me under the first amendment, supplemented by the fifth amendment to the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Public Law 808 provides that, within 30 days after removal, any person shall have opportunity personally to appear before the official designated by the Secretary concerned, and be fully informed of the reasons for such removal, and to submit, within 30 days thereafter, such statements or affidavits or both as he may desire to show why he should be retained and not removed. Did you resort to that remedy provided by Public Law 808 ?
Mr. NELSON. Regardless of in which manner this matter is approached, I shall continue to decline to answer. With respect to this specific question, I decline to answer on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. Actually, you did not appeal from the decision removing you, or take any steps to avoid it, did you? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time between 1947 and 1949? That was the period you were in Japan.
Mr. NELSON. In response to that question, Mr. Tavenner, I assert that the only purpose of your asking that question is to intimidate me by putting out words such as communism and Communist and subversive with the idea of causing citizens to refrain from attending any sort of meetings or joining any sort of organizations for fear that at some time they may be labeled as subversive or un-American, and, thereby, causing a person to lose his employment. I think that that is an unjust question to put to me, and I decline to answer on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3905 
Mr. SCHERE. Since you raise the question, I am surprised that and you have been employed by the Government-true, it is State and county and city government-since your dismissal from Japan under the circumstances. That does interest me. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. Do you consider the Communist Party to be an organization which one should feel free to join and with the membership of which one should feel free to associate I
Mr. NELSON. Mr. Jackson, in response to that question, I would repeat that this committee is out of its jurisdiction in view of the fact that the Supreme Court has already told you fellows that you may not investigate where you do not have the right to legislate. And, since you do not have the right to legislate in the field of associations of citizens, I feel that the question is out of order, and I decline to answer it on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. JACKSON. Let me say one thing, Mr. Chairman: If the Congress of the United States, or any of its committees, does not have the right to legislate with respect to Federal employees, or to make inquiry into matters concerning Federal employees, past and present, who are members or have been members of the Communist Party, then there is certainly something very awry as far as the investigating power of the Congress is concerned. This is one area in which there should be absolutely no question as to the jurisdiction of the Congress. The Congress would be derelict indeed if it permitted a situation to go unnoticed in which there were past or present members of the Communist Party employed, especially in light of the action of the Congress of the United States in outlawing the Communist Party.
Mr. DoLE. Did I understand, Mr. Nelson, that you are contending that the Congress of the United States cannot legislate in the field of military, for instance, in Japan or foreign countries, in the American military? Do I understand that is your contention, that that is not in the jurisdiction of the United States Congress ? I so understood. I was quite shocked to hear you say it.
Mr. NELSON. Mr. Chairman, I wonder if you would kindly ask the man to read my answer back to Mr. What is the name of the gentleman there ?
Mr. DOLE. You know who I am. I'm Doyle of California.
Mr. NELSON. Thank you.
Mr. MOULDER. Let's proceed.
Mr. DOYLE. No. I want the answer, please, to that. The gentleman wanted his answer read. I think it would be good to have it read.
Mr. MOULDER. As requested by the witness and by Congressman Doyle, will the reporter please read the answer requested. (Whereupon, the record was read by the reporter, as follows:) In response to that question, I would repeat that this committee is out of its jurisdiction in view of the fact that the Supreme Court has already told you fellows that you may not investigate where you do not have the right to legislate. And, since you do not have the right to legislate in the field of associations of citizens, I feel that the question is out of order, and I decline to answer it on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth. 3906 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYLE. I was wondering if the gentleman cared to answer my question, if he still contended that the United States Congress did not have power and jurisdiction to legislate in the field of the American military wherever it was in the world. I understood the gentleman to say he was subject to American military discipline in Japan. I am on the Armed Services Committee of Congress, too, and I think we have the power to legislate regarding the American military wherever it is in the world, Mr. Nelson.
Mr. NELSON. I am of the opinion, Mr. Doyle, that by the mere fact that you are a civilian employee of the United States Government you do not lose your civil rights. I still say that this committee does not have the jurisdiction to probe into my thoughts or my associations. And I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to your taking a position in Japan, did you prepare an application for Government service in which you set forth your personal history and certain other matters ?
Mr. NELSON. I would presume that I did because it is a general routine for Federal employment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me hand you a photostatic copy of a so-called application for employment, and ask you to look at the last page and see whether or not the signature appearing at the bottom of it, on the reverse side of that sheet, is your signature?
Mr. MOULDER. Is that the usual Government form? Has it a number, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. The number has been covered and I am unable to see it. (Document handed to counsel for the witness.)
Mr. TAVENNER. It is equivalent to form 57, but I do not believe that it is exactly form 57. The sheet which I asked the witness to examine is the back page of the document on which his name appears. Will you examine, please, the signature appearing at the bottom of the last page, and state whether or not it is your signature?
Mr. NELSON. Mr. Tavenner, my employment history has always been commented upon by my various employers.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is not responsive to my question. The question simply was whether or not the signature appearing at the end of the document is your signature.
Mr. NELSON. With respect to this question, I decline to answer on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. MOULDER. As I recall the question by counsel, you were first asked if you signed an application for employment. Isn't that correct?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. MoULDER. And the witness answered "Yes" that he probably did, or he assumed that he had signed such application. Therefore, it is my opinion that you probably have opened the door and waived your right to claim the protection of the first and fifth amendment. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3907 The witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. NELSON. In response to the direction to answer the question, I respectfully decline to do so, based upon the privilege provided me under the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment of the Constitution. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Nelson, I note on this application also, on the last page, question No. 26: Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, or are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JACKSON. And in the column where an answer is required there is an X-mark under "No." Was that statement a true statement at the time this application was executed?
Mr. NELSON. The record will show that the witness has not identified this document. However, with respect to the question, I will state that at no time have I advocated the overthrow of the Government by force and violence.
Mr. JACKSON. Now the Supreme Court and the Congress have defined the Communist Party as an organization which does, in fact, advocate the overthrow of the Government by force and violence. Have you at any time been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. NELSON. I say again that to toss such a word as Communist and Communist Party and force and violence, associated with the name of the witness, is not good. And I say it is out of line, and I decline to answer on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. JACKSON. If it is out of line it was entirely out of line, it seems to me, for you to have signed this statement, or indicated on this statement-and I am taking it for granted that this is your application-for you to have indicated that you were never a member of any organization that advocated the overthrow of the Government by force and violence, and now, at this time, decline to state whether you are a member of the Communist Party which has been officially designated by your Government as an organization which does precisely that.
Mr. NELSON. Is that a comment or a question, Mr. Chairman I
Mr. JACKSON. No. That was a comment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Scherer, will you give me the date, please, of that document?
Mr. SCHERER. August 12, 1947, by Thomas W. Nelson. What is your middle name, sir ?
Mr. NELSON. My middle name is Walfrid, spelled W-a-l-f-r-i-d.
Mr. TAVENNER. On the date indicated were you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. NELSON. The question, as I say again, is an invasion of my rights under the first amendment, in which a citizen is guaranteed freedom from inquiry with respect to his beliefs and associations, and I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. JACKSON. You have no right to belong to the Communist Party. You are speaking in terms that imply that you have a constitutional 3908 COM1VUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA right to belong to the Communist Party which has been outlawed by the Government of the United States. You certainly have no right to belong to what has been judicially described as an international conspiracy. You have certain rights under the Bill of Rights, but you have no right to enter into a conspiracy any more than you have a right to peddle narcotics. Or more than you have a right to violate any Federal statute. This business of rights of individuals to do whatever they see fit under any circumstances is a little far-fetched.
Mr. NELSON. The record will not show any organizations to which I may have belonged or any narcotics I may have peddled.
Mr. JACKSON. I have no information on the narcotics.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period 1945 to 1947 when you were serving the United Nations in Germany were you a member of the Communist Party ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. In the United Nations we Americans worked alongside of our Allies in an attempt to rehabilitate the damage done by thought control and terroristic measures of the Hitler regime. And I do not, again, feel that you have any right to infringe upon my rights under the first amendment, and I decline to answer the question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. SCHERER. Do you consider the Hitler regime any worse or any better than the Communist regime? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. I have some rather positive opinions about the Hitler regime, based upon my observations there. I actually talked with some of the former concentration camp victims.
Mr. SCHERER. Have you heard about the concentration camps in Russia and Siberia, and persecution of the Jews by the Russians and Communists? 
Mr. NELSON. I actually saw some of the bones of Buchenwald, and some of the victims who I am sure would agree with Supreme Court Justice Rutledge when he stated that these folks would certainly have appreciated the worthwhileness of a fifth amendment in their country when they were being harassed by their own government.
Mr. SCHERER. Now answer my question. Would you consider the Hitler regime any worse or any betterthat was my question-than the Communist-Stalin regime which now even the Communists condemn as murderous? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. In my opinion, the reason why this committee brings out these terms of communism and nazismMr. SCHERER. You brought up nazism.
Mr. NELSON. Is to infer that the witness can be tied in with them. And I would not care to express my opinion on this matter.
Mr. SCHERER. Do you deny at this very moment that while you were working for the United Nations and while you were an employee of the United States Government, in the allied military government in Germany, that you were a member of the Communist conspiracy? Do you deny that? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3909 
Mr. NELSON. I think the record will show that question has already been put and answered.
Mr. SCHERER. Let's answer it again, now. Do you deny it? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. My record has been a dedication to upholding and defending the rights guaranteed under the American Constitution, both as a schoolteacher where I taught that the Bill of Rights is something that should be used every day and not merely honored on the Fourth of July, and in my work as a social worker where we work on a democratic basis. Recognizing every individual as important, and his own dignity: he has the right to grow without Government oppression. I feel that my record will stand with anyone's.
Mr. SCHERER. Is that the reason General MacArthur discharged you and sent you back from Japan as a security risk ?
Mr. NELSON. That matter has already been handled in the record, has it not, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. SCHERER. Will you answer the question?
Mr. NELSON. I decline to answer this question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. SCHERER. Weren't you sent back as a security risk by this Government
Mr. NELSON. I decline to answer the question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your first employment by the Government was between 1941 and 1945, in the State of Washington, was it not?
Mr. NELSON. You are speaking of the Federal Government now?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. NELSON. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party during that period of time while in the State of Washington ?
Mr. NELSON. You are approaching the same matter from a different angle, and I would continue to decline to answer that question on the basis of the privilege permitted me under the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party during the period you were teaching school from 1949 to 1951, inclusive?'
Mr. NELSON. Mr. Tavenner, I say that a schoolteacher should not be subjected by a congressional committee as to his political opinions. In my viewpoint, a schoolteacher should be judged on the basis of his competence and his truthfulness in teaching his classes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I take it then that you are of the opinion that a person who is subject to the directives of the Communist Party should be permitted to teach in our public schools ?
Mr. NELSON. Is that a question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. NELSON. Would you repeat it, please.
Mr. TAVENNER. I take it, from what you have stated, that you are of the opinion that a person who is subject to the directives of the Communist Party should be permitted to teach in our public schools. Is that your view ?
Mr. NELSON. You are asking for my opinion. I shall give it to you. In my opinion, a schoolteacher-just as any other employee-should 3910 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA not be responsible to his employer for his political opinions or his private thoughts. A schoolteacher, especially, must be free to explore all knowledge and to expose his students to the facts so that the students themselves may form their opinions.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS a person subject to the directives of the Communist Party free to do those things?
Mr. NELSON. Still going on my own opinion, I have seen in recent years statements where teachers have been discharged from their work after having been employed for sometimes 10, 15, and 20 years. I must believe that this teacher must have been competent if he was held on his position through all this length of time. So I cannot say whether these specific teachers were subject to anybody directing from outside. But I do say that these teachers who have been charged by this committee and similar committees as being under the subjugation of somebody else, I submit that the fact that they did teach for such a long time and had such very fine records must be an indication that they were competent to teach and were retained by their administration as good teachers until such time as such committees as these came around and tried to bring in other factors rather than academic competence.
Mr. JACKSON. That is not necessarily true. I know of some cases before this committee where teachers were released, not because of their competency or lack of competency, but because they lied on official documents. I think personally that a Communist teacher has got as much right in close contact with a young mind as a rattlesnake has in a baby's crib.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party be- tween 1951 and 1952 when you served as an officer of the State parole system for the State of California ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. Mr. Tavenner, I was with the State only a brief time, but even in that short time I was commended by my superior as being one of the very promising officers. However, with respect to this particular question, I decline to answer on the basis of the privilege provided to me under the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment of the Constitution.
Mr. SCHERER. Did you ever tell your superior who commended you that you were a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. NELSON. I decline to answer that question on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth amendment.
Mr. SCHERER. When you signed your application form for employment with the State and were asked the question whether you were a member of the Communist Party or not, did you disclose that on that application?
Mr. NELSON. Do you have the application here, Mr. Tavenner? I think Mr. Scherer would like to examine it.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you sign such an application, to the best of your knowledge
Mr. NELSON. The State of California Personnel Department has application forms as other public agencies do, and I think it would be of value to the committee to let them examine it if it is here.
Mr. JACKSON. Let me phrase it this way: OO IMUJNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 8911 If you were required today to sign such an affidavit would you do so, stating that you were not a member of the Communist Party ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. The apparent intent of these remarks is to drive home the inference that this witness has done something that he should not have done.
Mr. JACKsON. It is an attempt to find out from you whether you are depending upon the fifth amendment in good faith. That is the only intent. And to also attempt to find out whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. NELSON. I have sought the Constitution, and I have good faith in the Constitution and all of the amendments to it.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Pardon me, Mr. Chairman. Is there a question before this witness?
Mr. MOULDE. The last question was would you sign such an application today, or affidavit, that you were not a member of the Communist Party. I believe that is the question propounded by Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. That is the question.
Mr. MOULDFR. I believe his question was: If you were signing an application for employment with the State of California, which provided or asked the question whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party, would you sign such an affidavit. I believe substantially that is the question.
Mr. JAcKsoN. That is substantially it. I want to know whether or not he would make a statement today on an official form which was a requisite of employment that he was not a member of the Communist Party. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. You put the question, and the form is not before this committee, and is a matter of conjecture. And I would decline to answer.
Mr. JACKSON. Is it a matter of conjecture ?
Mr. NELSON. It is not a matter of past history.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you sign it? If you are, as you say, a good loyal American citizen with nothing in your background of which to be ashamed, do you feel that you cannot tell the committee of the Congress whether or not you would state affirmatively that you were not a member of the Communist Party? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. NELSON. Mr. Jackson, I have been and I am now a good loyal American citizen.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. NELSON. And I am not required to answer such question as the one just now put to me by you, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. I shall put a similar one. Are you a member of the Communist Party today ?
Mr. NELSON. As I told Mr. Tavenner, this matter may be approached from various angles, but I still say that the Constitution is in effect, and I decline to answer on the basis of the first amendment supplemented by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNEE. I have no further questions. 77436-56-pt. 10-2 3912 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Doyle, have you a question
Mr. DOYLE. Yes; I have just a couple. I think I made a record of the witness' testimony of the agencies in Government in which he worked, and manifestly he has had a very rich and varied experience and a very valuable experience.
Mr. NELSON. Thank you, sir. I agree with you.
Mr. SCHERER. I do not think the Government has had, though.
Mr. DOYLE. And apparently he is very well informed on the history of nations and of government, including the history of the Communist Party. That is very evident. I notice, Mr. Nelson, that you worked in the State of Washington in 1941 to 1945 for the Department of Agriculture in relief work. I am sure you know that in April of 1945 Earl Browder was kicked out of the American Communist Party. Shortly thereafter certainly every thinking adult, American citizens, should have been charged with knowledge that the Communist Party program in the United States and in the world was a conspiracy, subversively. Certainly for the last several years it has been a matter of knowledge to you as a schoolteacher and a student of government that the United States courts and Congress have declared the Communist Party in America to be an international conspiracy based upon the use, if necessary in their judgment, of force and violence. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. DOYLE. The reason I mentioned that is I know that you know history perhaps as well as I do or better. But I know that is a matter of history, and so do you. Very frankly, the thing that amazes me, even recognizing your rights to plead the first and fifth amendments-which we all certainly do, if it is done in good faith and honestly-is that you would come here this morning, and not be in a position where you could honestly say you are not today a member of the Communist Party. That is the thing that amazes me. I can make allowance for thinking, patriotic American citizens who joined the Communist Party back in 1941, 1942, 1943, 1944, 1945, and some of them in 1946 before it was known that the Communist Party was a conspiracy founded upon force and violence. 
Mr. SCHERER. Before it was generally known.
Mr. DOYLE. Before it was generally known. But you, sir, from your training, knew it ahead of most of us. From your education and from your statements I can draw certain deductions based upon my own experience. And so there came a time, in my book, when you, as a schoolteacher and a patriotic American citizen, should have withdrawn from the Communist Party. By that I am inferring what I know as a matter of practical experience, that there was a time when you were pretty close to it. You haven't admitted ever joining it. I am not inferring it. I realize that under the law there is no inference to be drawn; there is no presumption to be drawn.
Mr. NELSON. Thank you, sir. I am glad you said that.
Mr. DOYLE. We know what the decisions of the courts are as well as you, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3913
Mr. SCHEER. That doesn't prevent us from relying on other sworn testimony, however, in arriving at a conclusion of this man's membership in the party.
Mr. DOYLE. No.
Mr. SCHERER. There is no question about it, Mr. Doyle. You don't have to have an inference
Mr. DOYLE. The thing that amazes me is that you, as a schoolteacher in the State of California, a State official and former Government official of the United States Government in foreign countries as well as in this country, have not as yet put yourself in the position where you could frankly say to the United States Congress-about which you have been teaching schoolchildren-it might have been some of my children, which makes me shiver to think of it-"Yes, I was a member of the Communist Party" if you were "back in 1942 until 1946 even, but I got my fill and I got out." That is the thing that amazes me, Mr. Nelson, that a man with your background isn't able to say this morning, "No, I am not a member of the party." You may think that is an invasion by us to make that inquiry.
Mr. NELSON. I do; yes.
Mr. DOYLE. I see you do. That is what amazes me, to be frank with you, because I used to be a member of the California State Board of Education, and I know some of the problems we had. One more statement, Mr. Chairman. And may I make this observationMr. NELSON. May I express my amazement also, Mr. Moulder? I am really amazed at the activities of this committee.
Mr. MOULDER. I can understand the temptation on the part of the witness to reply to a lecture. Each member has a right to conduct himself as he pleases. I do the best I can to keep order and an orderly procedure.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. May I respectfully request that the witness be permitted to answer an argument that was put to him.
Mr. DOYLE. I am not arguing, Madam Attorney. I am making a statement of my position.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. I wish this witness would have a like privilege. I respectfully urge that you give him the privilege that your colleagues have been given all morning.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Doyle will proceed.
Mr. DOYLE. I just wish this witness would understand my position as a mere Congressman. I recognize your right and every American citizen's right to think what he pleases and to preach what he pleases and to write what he pleases and to live the way he pleases. But he has to do it within the four corners of the Constitution of the United States. And I don't recognize your right, nor the right of any other American citizen to continue to be a member of any organization or any association that has been declared a conspiracy by the Congress of the United States, because that makes it illegal. So I say to you, sir, as one American to another, I do not recognize your right to come before any group of United States Congressmen, lawfully on an investigation, and claim it is your right-if you want to claim it-to still be a member, if you ever have been, of a conspiracy that has been declared illegal by the Congress of the United 3914 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA States. And I hope you will get into a position where you do not disagree with me, at least on that one point.
Mr. MOULDER. I must say, of course, that we will agree that you have the right to claim the privilege, as Mr. Doyle says, and decline to answer under the provisions of the Constitution. But I think his point is that he is criticizing your decision and judgment in so proceeding.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Which he has no right to do, Mr. Chairman, may I say for the record. And he has no right to draw inferences, which he has consistently drawn.
Mr. MOULDER. All right. Now what do you have to say? 
Mr. NELSON. I would certainly like to express my amazement also,
Mr. Doyle. Only a few days ago I was sitting in this room when I heard the Congressman speak of some of the eminent citizens of this community as rats and mice.
Mr. DOYLE. No; I didn't. I deny it. You heard nothing of the kind.
Mr. NELsoN. I heard it. And I must say that if Mr. Doyle fancies himself as a political pied piper who is going to take the mice out of the city of Hamlin, constitutional liberties, he had better take a second look. I do, not accept the inferences that have been made that because a citizen, in his own protection, from having observed how this committee operates, answers the questions on the basis of the first amendment and the fifth amendment, that any inference unfair to him should be drawn. The Supreme Court has spoken on that, and I think that should be enough to silence this sort of activity. And I hope that my opportunity of being here today can help to hasten the day when this committee will no longer be in existence.
Mr. MOULDER. If the officer can identify any person responsible for that demonstration, they will be removed from the hearing room.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Is there a question before the witness, Mr. Chair- man? Is there a question before the witness? 
Mr. MOULDER. There is no question pending. (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Scherer, do you have any additional questions?'
Mr. SCHERER. NO.
Mrs. ROSENBERG. Is the witness excused?
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Arthur Globe.
Mr. MOULDER. Hold up your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to. give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and: nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. GLOBE. I do. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3915 TESTIMONY OF ARTHUR GLOBE, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ESTHER SHANDLER  