Mr. JEROME. Victor Jeremy Jerome.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jerome, you need not stand unless you wish to.
Mr. JEROME (seating himself). 320 Second Avenue, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. JEROME. I was born October 12, 1896, in Poland.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a naturalized American citizen ?
Mr. JEROME. I am, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and in what court were you naturalized
Mr. JEROME. I was naturalized in January 1928 in New York City, southern district court. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Under what name were you naturalized ?
Mr. JEROME. Jerome Isaac Romain.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell Romain?
Mr. JEROME. R-o-m-a-i-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe your name has been legally changed?
Mr. JEROME. My name has been legally changed in 1944, Decem- ber 1.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you used any other name, other than your present legal name and the name of Jerome Isaac Romain ?
Mr. JEROME. Yes; the surname of Roman.
Mr. TAVENNER. R-o-m-a-n?
Mr. JEROME. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please state where you have resided since 1930 and for the approximate periods of time ?
Mr. JEROME. My place of residence permanently has been the city of New York since 1930.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time did you reside temporarily at other places?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question in the exercise of my right against possible self-incrimination. I base myself on the privilege afforded me by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. How would your refusal to answer the question of where you had resided tend to incriminate you?
Mr. JEROME. It might lead to an area involving possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to this committee your reasons for believing that it would bring you into such an area as you describe, so that the committee may have some information upon which to act or to judge whether or not it would tend to incriminate you, the answering of that question ?
Mr. JEROME. I feel that the answering of that question would violate my right to exercise the privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. So you decline, as I understand it, to advise the committee in what manner or any circumstances which would enable them to determine whether or not your refusal to answer the question of the places of your residence would tend to incriminate you ?
Mr. JEROME. I am not motivated by any desire not to advise the committee, but I feel that I have the right to exercise the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, will you briefly outline for the committee your educational background
Mr. JEROME. I had my grammar school education and my sec- ondary school education in England. I had my college education in the United States. I am a graduate of the New York University.  57 
Mr. MOULDER. Will you designate specifically the schools?
Mr. JEROME. I attended here the College of the City of New York, and later the Washington Square College of the New York University, where I graduated in 1930.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you outline briefly for the committee your occupational background?
Mr. JEROME. I was a bookkeeper for years. I was
Mr. WooD. Bookkeeper, did you say ?
Mr. JEROME. Yes. I was a tutor, private. For a time I taught in a high school, Erasmus High School, as a teacher in training.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where is that located?
Mr. JEROME. In the city of New York. Is the question relative to education or general occupation?
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your occupational background?
Mr. JEROME. For a brief while I was also printing salesman, that is, soliciting printing.
Mr. TAVENNER. By whom were you employed?
Mr. JEROME. I was not employed. I was really self-employed, on commission, in the main. For a brief while I think perhaps-I don't believe I ever was on salary. If I had a connection with a printer it was also on commission.
Mr. TAVENNER. During what period of time were you so engaged?
Mr. JEROME. I would say about 1929-30. Since then I also have been a writer and an editor, which has been my major occupation.
Mr. WooD. Is that true now ?
Mr. JEROME. That is true now.
Mr. KEARNEY. Writer and editor for whom? 
Mr. JEROME. I must decline to answer this question on the grounds I have previously given, the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. WALTER. Yes; but you voluntarily stated that you were a writer and, as I understand the law, you can't invoke privilege in order to avoid discussing the details of that which you volunteer.
Mr. JEROME. I believe that I am exercising my right as I see it and understand it in claiming the privilege.
Mr. WooD. And you still decline to answer the question for the reason given ?
Mr. JEROM E. For the reason given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you engaged at any time in the teaching pro- fession other than the teaching in the high school and the tutoring which you have already described?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer that question, claiming the privilege against possible self-incrimination.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jerome, you stated a while ago that you were engaged for a time in teaching, tutoring. 
Mr. JEROME. Other than that I have described, he said.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. What subjects do you teach, specialize in?
Mr. JEROME. I do not teach now.
Mr. MOULDER. What subjects did you teach 
Mr. JEROME. It was English.
Mr. KEARNEY. What subjects did you write on 58 INDUSTRY 
Mr. JEROME. I want to answer the other question, please. The sub- jects that I refer to involve the teaching of English. The subjects I wrote on, I decline to answer that question, claiming the privilege against possible self-incrimination.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, the witness has already testified voluntarily that he is a writer and editor.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask what you are editor of, what magazine, what paper, what pamphlet, what book?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking my privilege afforded me by the Constitution.
Mr. DOYE. When were you an editor, what years?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question for the same reason.
Mr. DOYLE. Where were you an editor, what city ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question for the same reason. 
Mr. DOYLE. Where did you live when you were an editor?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question for the same reason.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Jerome, how could you possibly incriminate yourself by giving the committee the dates you were active as editor ?
Mr. JEROME. The privilege I claim does not make it incumbent upon me to answer that question.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask this: How could it possibly incriminate you to tell your fellow Americans-because you were naturalized in 1928how could it possibly incriminate you to tell us what books or papers you wrote ? You have said you were' an editor. I assume you were an editor in this country. How could it incriminate you to state what you wrote ? I assume you are proud of them.
Mr. JEROME. The situation is not of my creation, members of the committee. I feel there is justification in the statement made recently by Justice Black, that to answer one question for the congressional committee is to rob yourself of the privilege afforded you by the Constitution.
Mr. WALTER. Of course in the position taken by Justice Black the rest of the Court did not concur.
Mr. JEROME. True, but I have a high regard for that position, and I would like to identify myself with the recognition of that situation.
Mr. KEARNEY. You have a high regard for that position because, in the first instance, it covers your own course. Have you ever written for any Communist publication ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer that question, claiming the privilege under the constitutional right.
Mr. MOULDER. Did you write any articles under any name other than your own?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have stated that you were an editor. Were you associated, in the early 1930's with the publication New Pioneer?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question in exercise of my right against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated in any capacity with the publication known as New Masses?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you the editor of the publication the Communist?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the same grounds.  59 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated with the publication Main Stream? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privi- lege against self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your official position, if any, with the publication Political Affairs? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the priv- ilege against self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know if Mr. Joseph Fields was at any time editor of New Century Publishers, Inc.? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question in exercise of my right against self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Lement U. Harris one of the editors of that publication ? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you also an editor of that publication?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question for the given reason. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with the organization known as the League of American Writers ? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege under the fifth amendment.
Mr. WALTER. And as I understand your reason, it is because this organization is Communist, and to admit association with it would incriminate you ? 
Mr. JEROME. I have answered that to explain my reasons for in- voking the privilege represents a violation of the principle involved in that privilege.
Mr. MOULDER. The question was whether he was acquainted with that organization, is that right?
Mr. TAVENNER. That is right. 
Mr. WALTER. You know it is a Communist organization, do you not ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question for the reason given. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with an organization known as Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the ground of pos- sible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state whether or not you know that the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization is an affiliate, or was an affiliate, of the League of American Writers?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, claiming the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you familiar with the magazine Clipper?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, claiming the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, were you familiar with the School for Writers which was operated in Hollywood, Calif., first by the Hollywood chapter of the League of American Writers, and later by the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, claiming the privilege under the Constitution against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with the People's Educational Center as an organization?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 60 COMMUNISM IN THE MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state, if you know, whether or not the Hollywood branch of the People's Educational Center took over the offices of the School for Writers?
Mr. JEROME. I have no knowledge of any such fact? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discuss with the officers of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization the turning over of its facilities to the People's Educational Center?
Mr. JEROME. I have no knowledge of any such fact.
Mr. MOTULDER. Do you have any knowledge concerning the activities of any of the organizations mentioned by counsel?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds given.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, in the business of solicitation on commission which you stated you had been engaged in, was that business carried on in any manner in connection with any of these publications which I have asked you about, or any of these organizations which I have asked you about ?
Mr. JEROME.- To the best of my recollection, no. In fact, I remember no such connection.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the type of your connection with these publications which I have mentioned?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. KEARNEY. For whom did you solicit printing ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, since it might entail the possibility of self-incrimination.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle. 
Mr. DOYLE. Are you a member of the Elks' Club ?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. Are you a member of the B'nai B'rith Lodge?
Mr. JEROME. NO, sir. 
Mr. DOYE. Are you a member of any of the Masonic fraternities?
Mr. JEROME. NO, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. Are you a member of any of the lodges identified with any religious organization in this country?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. If so, what ones?
Mr. JEROME. No lodge of any religious organization.
Mr. DOYLE. Are you a member of any of the established automobile clubs in this country, such as the AAA !
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Are you a member of any lodge having its headquarters in the city of New York?
Mr. JEROME. I would like to understand the meaning of the word "lodge," sir.
Mr. DOYLE. A lodge as generally accepted.
Mr. JEROME. As a fraternal organization?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. 
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-inerimination.
Mr. DOYLE. You have just answered that you were not a member of the other lodges identified.
Mr. JEROME. That is right.  61 
Mr. DOYLE. Are you a member of any organization or group that might be termed ordinarily, and is ordinarily termed, as a secret organization, in our country?
Mr. JEROME. I would like further clarification on this question, because to me I would have to have the definition of the word "secret." It may be secret to X and not to Y and maybe to Z. Therefore, it is hard for me to know what the intent of your question is.
Mr. DOYLE. Any organization that is secret to you, in your esteem, your judgment?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir. 
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Are you a member of any organization that has for its aims or objectives the overthrow of this Government by force or violence?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Are you a member of the Communist Party?
Mr.. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. WIOOD. I understood in the early part of your testimony that at the time you were engaged in printing solicitation-was that around 1930?
Mr. JEROME. Around that period. 
Mr. WOOD. That has been 20 years ago ?
Mr. JEROME. Yes; 1929 or 1930.
Mr. WOOD. You understand, of course, that the statute of limita- tions protects you after the expiration of 3 years for any activity you may have engaged in that may be termed illegal.
Mr. JEROME. I still stand on the claiming of the privilege.
Mr. WOOD. With reference to the question counsel asked you about the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, have you ever made any literary contribution of any character that could in any sense be termed subversive or anti-American to that periodical?
Mr. JEROME. What is the name of the periodical, please?
Mr. WOOD. Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. JEROME. I have never written for that publication.
Mr. WOOD. At all?
Mr. JEROME. At all.
Mr. WooD. Well, then, why did you refuse to answer counsel's ques- tion when he interrogated you about your connection with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization? Have you ever had any financial connection with it in any way ?
Mr. JEROME. I have never had any connections with that organization.
Mr. WOOD. At all?
Mr. JEROME. At all.
Mr. WooD. Well, then, your statement a while ago when you refused to answer counsel's question as to that organization on the ground of self-incrimination was erroneous, wasn't it? It wouldn't incriminate you, would it?
Mr. JEROME. The choice of that privilege is not an admission of incrimination. 
Mr. WooD. Do you mean to say you can invoke the protection of the fifth amendment and refuse to answer a question as to an organiza- 62 tion, the answer to which would be that you had no connection with it at all?
Mr. JEROME. When in my discretion it may lead into an area in which self-incrimination is possible.
Mr. WOOD. I am glad we are getting ourselves identified. Then you take the position you can refuse to answer any question you wish by hiding behind the fifth amendment?
Mr. JEROME. No. 
Mr. WOOD. What do you mean ?
Mr. JEROME. The fifth amendment is there to protect me against acting as a witness against myself, and when in my discretion I feel that answering a question put to me represents acting as a witness against myself and involves the question of self-incrimination I invoke that right.
Mr. WooD. You have invoked that right here today on a matter that cannot incriminate you, and you have just admitted it, haven't you?
Mr. JEROME. I have admitted what.
Mr. WOOD. As to Hollywood Writers' Mobilization.
Mr. JEROME. IS that the name of a publication or an organization?
Mr. WooD. This group has a publication.
Mr. JEROME. I said I have never written for that publication and I have no connection with it.
Mr. WOOD. What is the name of the publication?
Mr. JEROME. I don't know, sir. I go by the name you mentioned to me and asked if I wrote for it.
Mr. WOOD. How about the Hollywood Quarterly
Mr. JEROME. What is that? Is that connected with that organization ?
Mr. WOOD. Yes. 
Mr. JEROME. That is a new question to me ?
Mr. WOOD. Yes.
Mr. JEROME. What is the question ? 
Mr. WOOD. Are you familiar with that publication, Hollywood Quarterly?
Mr. JEROME. By "familiar" you mean have I ever seen it or read it?
Mr. WOOD. Yes.
Mr. JEROME. I have seen it. 
Mr. WooD. Have you ever made any literary contribution to it?
Mr. JEROME. To that quarterly?
Mr. WOOD. Yes.
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Jerome, in answer to Mr. Kearney's question, you said you do not belong to any organization which believes in the overthrow of our Government by force and violence. If the United States should become involved in a war with Russia, would you support the United States or Russia ?
Mr. JEROME. I wish to answer that I consider this question no basis for any reply that I can make in the interests of truth and reality. I believe there is no basis in reality for that question. I think it is a suppositious, hypothetical, and provocative question that could only serve to promote war.
Mr. KEARNEY. Would it take you, as an American, to go into a long speech on a question like that?  63 
Mr. JEROME. It would if the interests of the American people would not be served by breaking down all possibilities of establishing a relationship of amity between countries, and driving the mentality of our country into a war situation by that type of questions.
Mr. POTTER. So you refuse to answer the question ?
Mr. JEROME. I do not refuse to answer the question. My answer to the question is, I am interested in helping bring about peaceful relationships between those countries and all countries.
Mr. POTTER. That does not answer the question, so you refuse to answer the question ? 
Mr. JEROME. I do not wish to be a party to answering a question that will just heighten a so-called war spirit in this country. I feel at this time, when a meeting is taking place to bring the Four Powers together, the hysteria raised by such a question cannot serve the good interests of the country.
Mr. WOOD. Don't you think you are in rather poor position today, in view of the answers you have given to questions of counsel and members of the committee, to take the position you take now ?
Mr. JEROME. I do not. I believe the position I take is joined by most of the people of the country. I think they want peace and not war. 
Mr. POTTER. None of us want war. If our security was at stake, would you support the United States or would you support Soviet Russia? You have refused to answer the question.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. There is a proposed "peace" march on Washington, I believe March 15. Are you connected with that movement ?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Chaiman. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. You do agree that this is a legally constituted committee of the Congress, do you not ?
Mr. JEROME. I do, sir. 
Mr. VELDE. Do you agree that we are attempting to determine what subversive forces exist in this country ?
Mr. JEROME. I do, sir. 
Mr. VELDE. Do you refuse to cooperate by answering questions as to those subversive forces ?
Mr. JEROME. My position is to cooperate as best I can. I believe, however, I am entitled to invoke a constitutional privilege granted me against self-incrimination.
Mr. VELDE. Then you refuse to answer any questions pertaining to any organizations that you belong to that you might think are subversive or incriminating?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer any question that in my opinion would put me in a position of possibly incriminating myself, and inl this I believe I am constitutionally protected.
Mr. WooD. What I can't understand about your testimony, Mr. Jerome-and I am not trying to embarrass you.
Mr. JEROME. I understand.
Mr. WOOD. You admit you are a writer. From that we are to assume that you have written material for public consumption. Yet you 64 decline to tell us to what publications you have made such literary contributions. What is your objection to giving the committee the benefit of that information ? How can that possibly incriminate you ? 
Mr. JEROME. I can only repeat my answer to a similar question be- fore, that I must exercise my discretion in understanding the applicability of the privilege to the situation and the specific question put to me.
Mr. WooD. Of course we are going to have to accept that answer, or that declination to answer the question, but I think you must realize it places the committee in a very peculiar position of not being able to understand what is in your mind in declining to answer it. As to most of the questions, you would be protected under the statute of limitations, anyhow.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask a question, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I believe you said, "I have been a writer, an editor. fact, it was my main occupation." In Do you remember that? 
Mr. JEROME. Yes. 
Mr. DOYLE. In answer to Mr. Potter's question, or Mr. Velde's ques- tion, you said you believe this is a legally constituted committee of Congress. You said that ?
Mr. JEROME. Yes. SMr. DOYLE. As one group of Americans talking to another American-even if you are naturalized--don't you think it is within the province of the representatives of the American people to go into the question of the main occupation of people as American citizens ? You testified that was your main occupation-writing?
Mr. JEROME. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Wherein, then, are we in error in asking you what you did during the time you were in your main occupation If so, where are we in error ? How could it incriminate you to frankly and honestly tell us how you engaged yourself in your main occupation, which you have told us was writing? I am not assuming, in asking you that question, that you have been violating any law. I assume you have in all your writings been a patriotic American writer. But you do raise a question in my mind, if you refuse to tell us as one American to another American group, you cause a doubt in my mind as to whether or not you have told us the truth about what your main occupation was. Are you ashamed of it or is it because you have been in violation of law or committed some public wrong or what ? Have you been associated with men and women who have been trying to overthrow our Government in their writings, have they been paying you, or what? I don't understand.
Mr. JEROME. Let me answer this way: Of course, this committee is entitled to pursue its questioning in terms of its best understanding of how to carry through its set task of this morning or any other occasion. But this committee certainly also realizes that it does this within the framework of certain constitutional guarantees that are open to Americans, and which we have a right to claim on certain bases. When I claim them I am not setting myself outside the range of Americanism, but I am exercising a right afforded me by the American Constitution.
Mr. WALTER. That goes to the possibility of being prosecuted crimi- nally. If the statute of limitations has run, what possible danger  INDUSTRY 65 could you be in that would entitle you to invoke the provisions of the Constitution as a protection ?
Mr. JEROME. I do not feel called upon to go into an explanation of my understanding of invoking the privilege.
Mr. WALTER. I was trying to refresh you on fundamental principles, that is all. 
Mr. VELDE. If it should happen that later you were cited for con- tempt of Congress, would you still agree that this is a legally constituted committee of Congress ?
Mr. JEROME. I would like to consult counsel on that. 
Mr. WOOD. You have the privilege of conferring with your counsel at any time you desire. (Witness confers with his counsel.) 
Mr. POWE. Mr. Chairman, I have advised my client that in the light of the last answer- 
Mr. WooD. The rule of the committee is that you can advise your client and let your client give the answer. 
Mr. POWE. I thought the committee would like to know the reason why I advised him. 
Mr. WOOD. We are not concerned with that. You advise him and let him answer. 
Mr. JEROME. Upon advice of my counsel I answer that question that an answer to this question involves legal opinion which I am not qualified at this time to answer, but if such a situation should arise as was here indicated as a possibility, I would then act upon the advice of counsel.
Mr. VELDE. But your answer to my question originally that you agreed that this was a legally constituted committee of Congress- 
Mr. JEROME. That is right.
Mr. VELDE (continuing). Was also on the advice of counsel?
Mr. JEROME. No. This is my understanding, and I believe it would be the advice of counsel if I consulted him.
Mr. DOYLE. I think the record should show that counsel was present at all times with the witness in all these questions and counsel made no objection.
Mr. WOOD. Well, counsel is not supposed to make objections. Proceed. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, did you assist in any manner in the formation of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization? 
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds of possi- ble self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Gordon Kahn, who was a member of the editorial board of the publication Clipper, and who was a member of the faculty of the School of Writers, now known as the Hollywood Branch of People's Educational Center?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Sam Moore, who, accord- ing to the August 1, 1944, issue of the Screen Writers' Guild Bulletin was chairman of the subcommittee on radio of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 66 
Mr. TAVENNER. Another individual attached to the publication Clipper was Waldo Salt, S-a-l-t, an associate editor. Do you know
Mr. Salt?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. WALTER. Why do you think it would incriminate you to admit you knew someone in 1944 ?
Mr. JEROME. I stand on my right to claim the privilege on the basis of my understanding.
Mr. WALTER. Then it is your understanding that you can decline to answer any question, innocent as it may be as a matter of fact, because you feel that the answer to that question might tend to in- criminate you ?
Mr. JEROME. I would like to consult counsel. (Witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JEROME. My counsel advises me that in regard to any question where I honestly feel that the answer may tend to lead to self-incrimination, I can avail myself of the constitutional right not to answer. I say this in the context of my desire to cooperate with the committee with this understanding of my right.
Mr. WOOD. And do you follow the advice of counsel ?
Mr. JEROME. Yes, sir. 
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. Were you ever in the city of Hollywood, Calif., Mr. Jerome ?
Mr. JEROME. I went to Los Angeles in 1946 on the occasion of my mother's death. I went to Los Angeles again in 1948 when my father was dying. I was in Los Angeles prior to that in 1936, part of 1936 and part of 1937.
Mr. MOULDER. Were you ever in the city of Hollywood?
Mr. JEROME. To me Hollywood represents Los Angeles. I was in Hollywood, yes. If I don't call it city it is because I don't understand it that way.
Mr. MOULDER. Was the purpose of your visits on those occasions that which you mentioned, to visit your mother and father?
Mr. JEROME. That was the purpose of my visits in 1946 and 1948.
Mr. MOULDER. Are you acquainted with any of the writers in Holly- wood, any one of them?
Mr. JEROME. I must decline to answer that question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. MOULDER. That is all. 
Mr. WooD. You were there in 1946 and 1948 on account of deaths in your family. What was the purpose of your other visits in 1936 and 1937 ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer on the grounds of possible self- incrimination.
Mr. WooD. Were those the only visits you made ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer on the grounds of possible self- incrimination.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you ever work for any organization in Holly- wood?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on grounds of possible self-incrimination.  67 
Mr. WALTER. Isn't it true the purpose of those visits was to organize the Communist Party, or help organize the Communist Party, in Los Angeles ?
Mr. JEROME. I spoke of the purpose of my visits in 1946 and 1948. I stand by that explanation.
Mr. WALTER. Did you ever visit Los Angeles for the purpose of aiding in the organization of the Communist Party or a Communist cell in Los Angeles?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did I understand you a few minutes ago to say that you wanted to be helpful to this committee ?
Mr. JEROME. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then will you tell us what you know about Actors' Laboratory in Hollywood ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know who the founders were of Actors' Laboratory?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. WALTER. Perhaps you could refresh his recollection by giving the names.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know J. Edward Bromberg, who was associated with Actors' Laboratory ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you familiar with the Hollywood Chapter of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Thank you.
Mr. JEROME. What does "acquainted" mean ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know of the organization ?
Mr. JEROME. Of its existence ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Of its existence.
Mr. JEROME. Yes. That is not my understanding of "acquaintance."
Mr. TAVENNER. To what extent were you acquainted with that organization?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you aid or assist in any manner in the formation of that chapter, or counsel or advise others in regard to it?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily Worker of May 11, 1934, identifies you as a member of the National Agit-Prop, which is the expression for the Agitation and Propaganda Commission of the Communist Party. Was that a correct identification ?
Mr. JEROME. I must decline to answer that question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. WOOD. If it weren't true it wouldn't incriminate you, would it,
Mr. Jerome? 81595-51-pt. 1- 2 68  
Mr. JEROME. I feel justified resting on my privilege against answer- ing that question.
Mr. WOOD. But I am trying now to ascertain what your conception is of your privilege. Do you take the position that a question to which you could answer, as in this instance, "No," would incriminate you?
Mr. JEROME. I have answered'with my explanation of the expres- sion given by Justice Black in the Rogers decision in the Supreme Court.
Mr. WOOD. I have it here before me.
Mr. JEROME. It would only be reiterating what I said before.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you in 1936 connected in any capacity with the cultural commission of the Communist Party ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were identified as chairman or head of the cul- tural commission of the Communist Party by the Daily Worker of August 7, 1950, and the Daily Peoples World of January 24, 1951, and February 8, 1951. Will you state whether that identification was wrong or correct ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question, resting on my rights against self-incrimination.
Mr. WOOD. Again, would you say that an answer that that identification is wrong, if true, would incriminate you?
Mr. JEROME. I have stated my understanding, that to answer that questionMr. WOOD. Would tend to incriminate you?
Mr. JEROME. Might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. DOYLE. You knew subsequent to the publication of those papers, those three occasions, that you were listed as that, didn't you ? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on grounds of possi- ble self-incrimination.
Mr. KEARNEY. If it was not true, did you take any measures to correct it?
Mr. JEROME. I must refuse to answer the question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the May 22, 1950, issue of the Daily Worker, at page 11, there is contained a tribute from the national cultural commission of the Communist Party to Bob Reed, signed V. J. Jerome, chairman, National Cultural Commission, Communist Party. Did you actually sign a tribute from that commission as its chairman ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question, invoking my right against possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Bob Reed was a friend of yours, was he not?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have already stated to the committee that you went to California in 1936. Is it not true that the purpose of your trip to California in 1936 was to organize a separate district of the Communist Party in Hollywood, or Los Angeles ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, resting on my privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was not Stanley Lawrence in charge of Communist activities among the Hollywood group prior to your going there in 1936?  69 
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question on the grounds of pos- sible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in Hollywood in 1936 when you went there ?
Mr. JEROME. All told I believe I was there about 9 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you live during that period of time?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of pos- sible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time while you were in Cali- fornia, or immediately prior thereto, was it determined by the national organization of the Communist Party that the Communist funds derived from the California area were so large that it was considered advisable to have them sent directly to the national organization instead of to the State organization of the Communist Party in California, and wasn't that the practice after your departure?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. While you were in California during this 9-month period, were you known within Communist Party circles as the theatrical instructor of the Communist Party for the Hollywood district?
Mr. JEROME. I know of no such designation, nor do I lay claim to such title. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You were an instructor of Stalinism and Leninism among the Hollywood group, were you not? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question on the ground of pos- sible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You state you were not the theatrical instructor. but didn't you engage in work as an instructor in the theory of communism while you were in California in 1936 ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. I would like you to define what you mean by "theatrical instructor." Do you mean theatrical director, or did I cast people into roles? I don't understand the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking if you were known by that title?
Mr. JEROME. NO. I recollect no such thing. 
Mr. TAVENNER. But if you were an instructor of a theatrical group in Hollywood, that title would be descriptive of your duties in that position, would it not?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you engage in such activities while you were there? 
Mr. JEROME. What activities? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Instructing, lecturing, advising, the Hollywood group on the question of communism.
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of pos- sible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. If you discharged the function I have described, the term "theatrical instructor of the Communist Party" would be an adequate description, would it not?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The records of this committee reflect that the Holly- wood League Against Naziism was established in California, and that 70 the name was later changed to Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. Do you know the reason for that change?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. T.\ENN-ER. Were you consulted with respect to the formation of the Hollwood League Against Nazism? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of that organization or the succeeding organization, the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of pos- sible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS it not true that efforts to link communism and fascism caused dissension in the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League, as a result of which you were directed to straighten out the trouble?
Mr. JEROME. I have no such recollection.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you confer with members of the Anti-Nazi League for the purpose of settling the disputes they had within their own organization?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question, invoking the privi- lege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Dr. Inez Decker?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege..
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether Dr. Inez Decker was a mem- ber of the Communist Party?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know James Thorme as a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privi- lege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know Eva Shaffron as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privi- lege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know Rudy Lambert as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know John L. Leech as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privi- lege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were these individuals whose names I have just asked you about members of the executive committee of the Communist Party in Los Angeles?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time meet with these individuals in the home of Dr. Inez Decker?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege.  INDUSTRY 71 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time, in the home of Dr. Inez Decker, discuss the reorganization of the Hollywood .Anti-Nazi League ? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you direct the executive committee of the Com- munist Party in Los Angeles to carry out an extensive campaign on behalf of the Communist Party and the Anti-Nazi League among the crafts in Hollywood, such as carpenters, electricians, technicians, Screen Writers' Guild, Actors' Guild, and other organizations?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you direct that the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League be used for the purpose of bringing into contact with the -Communist Party Hollywood personalities who were not members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, Donald Ogden Stewart was chairman of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. him? Were you acquainted with 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Marian Spitzer was vice chairman of the Holly- wood Anti-Nazi League. Did you know her ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question for the same reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. Allen Campbell was secretary of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. Have you talked to him about the affairs of the league?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question in the exercise of my right against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Bern Bernard W\as treasurer of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. Did you know him?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted in any manner with the or- ganization known as the Hollywood League for Democratic Action? 'Thatis, did you know of its existence ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the same grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you registered under the Internal Security Act? 
Mr. JEROME. I would like to consult my attorney, please. (Witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. JEROME. I have not registered.
Mr. WooD. Are you familiar with the so-called Internal Security Act?
Mr. JEROME. Yes, in a way. I have read about it.
Mr. WoOD. You know in a general way about its provisions ?
Mr. JEROME. In a general way. 
Mr. WOOD. And you have not registered under it?
Mr. JEROME. I have not registered.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. You have been very open about your affiliation with the Communist Party in the past; isn't that true ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination. 72 INDUSTRY 
Mr. POTTER. The statement counsel made a little while ago concern- ing an article in the Daily Worker signed by you as chairman of the Cultural Commission of the Communist Party would indicate you had been open about your affiliation in the past. That being so, I will ask you now, are you a member of the Communist Party at the present time ?
Mr. JEROME. I believe I have met that question before.
Mr. KEARNEY. I asked it. 
Mr. POTTER. Your answer is the same?
Mr. JEROME. The same. 
Mr. WOOD. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask this question: Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you made that award that has been referred to, to Mr. Reed?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you write that article that counsel cited from the Daily Worker?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question for the same reason.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you demand a retraction from the Daily Worker?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the same basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, I was asking you about the Hollywood League for Democratic Action. Is it not true that Mr. Fank Tuttle was vice chairman of that organization?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the basis of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discuss with Mr. Frank Tuttle the activ- ities of that organization?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dudley Nichols was secretary of the Hollywood League for Democratic Action. Did you discuss the business of that organization with him ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Bern Bernard, the same person about whom I asked you a moment ago, was also treasurer of the Hollywood League for Democratic Action. Did you discuss the business of that organization with him ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer that question, invoking the priv- ilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. John Garfield is a person alleged to have been active in the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. Are you acquainted with him?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Counsel, has that organization been cited as sub- versive by the Attorney General? 
Mr. TAVENNER. It has been cited by the California Committee on Un-American Activies, and was cited in 1948. We spoke of the School for Writers a little earlier in your testimony, which later became a branch of the People's Educational Center. An individual by the name of Robert Lees is alleged to have been a member of the executive board of the School for Writers. Are you acquainted with him  
Mr. JEROME. NO, sir. 73 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, the officers of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization in 1942 were Robert Rossen, chairman; Paul Franklin, vice chairman; and Pauline Lauber Finn, executive secretary. Were you acquainted with any of these individuals, and if so, which ones?
Mr. JEROME. Acquainted means have I known them or heard of them?
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you known them personally?
Mr. JEROME. Not to my recollection, none of those individuals.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jerome, is it not true that the Politburo ordered the comrades who were in the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization organization to make plans for the holding of a Writers' Congress in 1943?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Marc Connelly, chairman of the Writers' Congress ?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Information is in the hands of the committee that the faculty of the People's Educational Center included a person by the name of Charles J. Katz, attorney in Los Angeles; Herbert Klein; Ben Margolis; Earl Robinson; and Revels Cayton. Are you acquainted with any of those individuals, and if so, name those with whom you are acquainted.
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Another member of the faculty of the People's Educational Center is alleged to be Carl Winter, Los Angeles County secretary to the Communist Party. Are you acquainted with Mr. Winter ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Also on the faculty was Eva Shaffron, alleged to be the director of the Workers' School for Los Angeles. Are you acquainted with her ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Viola Brothers Shore ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you appear as a speaker at the San Francisco Writers' Congress held in October 1943?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question in exercise of my right against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make suggestions, or did you in any way assist in drawing up the plans for that Writers' Congress?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where the Writers' Congress was held?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, claiming the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS it not true that members of the Communist Party or fellow-travelers in the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, acting under the directions of Alexander Trachtenberg and you, persuaded Dr. Robert Sproul, president of the University of California, to lend 74 you the campus for the meeting place for this Writers' Congress, and also persuaded him to let you use the university's name as cosponsor of the event? 
Mr. JEROME. I have no knowledge of that. 
Mr. WALTER. Is that the Dr. Sproul who is connected with the Institute of Pacific Relations? 
Mr. JEROME. IS that question directed to me?
Mr. TAVENNER. I would not like to state without definite knowledge. You state you had no knowledge of the making of those arrangements. Will you state to the committee what knowledge you did have about the holding of that congress ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You and Alexander Trachtenberg, Joseph Fields, Lionel Berman, and Louis Budenz were members of a committee, were you not, within the Communist Party ? 
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now or were you at any time a member of the National Religious Political Commission of the Communist Party ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend a conference of the School of Jewish Studies at the Jefferson School of Social Science auditorium in New York, January 14 and 15, 1950, at which time you were elected a member of the board of directors of that organization ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TATENNER. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the International Workers' Order ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever conferred with Steve Nelson on Communist Party matters ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. In October 1947 the Committee on Un-American Activities subpenaed before it members of the Communist Party from Hollywood, Calif. Did you discuss with the persons subpenaed, their counsel or agents, the strategy adopted by that group in refusing to answer questions propounded by the staff and members of this committee ?
Mr. JEROME. NO, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Subsequent to these hearings a rally was held entitled "Keep America Free," which was sponsored by the Conference on Cultural Freedom and Civil Liberties and the Progressive Citizens of America. Did you discuss with anyone the formation of this rally prior to the holding of it?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on grounds of possible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who was the chairman of that rally?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.  INDUSTRY 75 
Mr. TAVENNER. Committee information is it was Dr. Harlow Shap- ley. Are you acquainted with him ?
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the days of the Hitler-Stalin pact, did the Communist Party establish a commission for the purpose of ascertaining the loyalty of Communist Party members during this period ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer the question on the grounds of pos- sible self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has the Cultural Commission established Com- munist Party groups within the respective guilds or trades of the radio and television industry ?
Mr. JEROME. I refuse to answer the question, invoking the privilege against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Norman Louis Corwin assigned by the Com- munist Party to infiltrate and form Communist Party groups within the radio industry ?
Mr. JEROME. I have no knowledge of it.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will take a recess until 2: 30. (Thereupon, at 12:25 p. m., a recess was taken until 2: 30 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (The hearing was resumed at 2: 40 p. m., Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding.)
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order. Let the record show that there are present Messrs. Moulder, Doyle, Frazier, Kearney, Potter, and Wood, a quorum.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, the question was asked this morning by a member of the committee about the citation of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi League. I think I should state for the benefit of the record that the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization was cited as subversive and Communist by Attorney General Tom Clark on December 4, 1947, and again on September 21, 1948; and was also cited by the California Committee on Un-American Activities in 1945. The citation by the California committee is that it was a Communist-front organization whose "true purpose" was "the creation of a clearing house for Communist propaganda." A publication which was referred to earlier in the testimony as Hollywood Quarterly was cited by the California Committee on UnAmerican Activities in 1948 as a "Communist project" sponsored jointly by the Communist front, the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and the University of California at Los Angeles. TESTIMONY OF VICTOR JEREMY JEROME---Resumed
Mr. JEROME. I have no knowledge of any list of 300 such names.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any knowledge of any list compiled for that purpose?
Mr. JEROME. I have no knowledge of any list compiled for that purpose. 76 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENXER. Do you know George Pershing, the former field secretary of the Committee for Spanish Aid
Mr. JEROME. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you present to him or transmit to him by any method a list containing names of persons in Hollywood, for him to use in obtaining funds for Spanish Aid activities ? 
Mr. JEROME. To the best of my memory; no.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make such a list, or any type of list, avail- able to Paul Crouch for the purpose of soliciting funds for the publication of New South ?
Mr. JEROME. What kind of list? Will you repeat that, please?
Mr. TAVEXXER. A list of names of individuals in Hollywood to be used by Paul Crouch or any other person for the purpose of soliciting funds for the publication of New South?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer this question in exercise of my right against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are acquainted with Paul Crouch?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer this question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you furnish a list of names, or cause a list of names to be furnished, to Paul Crouch or any other person, to be used as a list of secret contributors to the Communist Party ?
Mr. JEROME. I decline to answer this question in exercise of my right against self-incrimination.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire at this time to question the witness regarding the names of persons appearing on an alleged list, and I think, because of the character of it, it should be in executive session, if you desire to consider that.
Mr. WOOD. What is the pleasure of the committee ? (Members of the committee confer.)
Mr. WooD. Very well, we will resolve the hearing into an executive session. We will ask the people other than the committee and the staff to retire. (Thereupon, at 2:50 p. m., the committee went into executive session.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 1 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, CoMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIEs, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to call at 10: 35 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood (chairman), Francis E. Walter, Clyde Doyle, James B. Frazier, Jr. (appearance as noted in transcript), Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William H. Wheeler, investigator; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WooD. Let the record disclose that there are present Messrs. Walter, Doyle, Velde, Kearney, Jackson, Potter, and Wood, constituting a quorum.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, may I make a brief statement regarding the general purpose of the hearing?
Mr. WOOD. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. As is well known, the Committee on Un-American Activities has succeeded to a marked degree in exposing Communists' infiltration into labor organizations, with the result in many instances that the organizations involved have rid themselves of Communist domination and influences, and likewise with the result'that the Congress has been informed of many important facts as the basis for legislative action. I need only remind you that the testimony of Matthew Cvetic virtually destroyed for the time being at least the power and influence of the Communist Party in western Pennsylvania. Then there have been many witnesses who have frankly and openly told this committee of the circumstances under which they were duped into joining the Communist Party, the Communist Party activities observed by them while they were members, and the reasons for their breaking with the party. This has required courage on the part of these witnesses. But, in so testifying, they have performed a service of inestimable value to their country and in the end should and do receive the plaudits of their fellow citizens. 78 INDUSTRY The hearing today is the first of a series designed by the committee to accomplish the same results in the entertainment field as have been accomplished in labor and other fields. In performing its statutory duty to investigate communism wherever it may be found, we shall endeavor to ascertain the extent of past and present Communist infiltration in the field mentioned. It is hoped that any witness appearing during the course of these hearings, who made the mistake of associating himself or herself with the Communist Party, will have sufficient courage and loyalty to make an honest and complete disclosure of all they know about Communist Party activities. These hearings, Mr. Chairman, have not been hastily conceived. They are based upon investigative efforts by staff members extending over a number of years. As you will recall, it was contemplated that these hearings be conducted in Hollywood by the subcommittee which was chosen to conduct the hearings in Hawaii; but, in view of the work required of the staff in the preparation of the Hawaiian hearings and other hearings, this matter was postponed. Now, Mr. Chairman, I would like to call, as the first witness, Mr. Larry Parks.
Mr. WOOD. Is Mr. Parks present ?
Mr. PARKS. Yes.
Mr. WOOD. Will you stand, please? Do you solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. PARKS. I do.
Mr. WOOD. Have a seat. TESTIMONY OF LARRY PARKS, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, LOUIS MANDEL 