Mr. KIMPLE. William Ward Kimple, K-i-m-p-1-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kimple, have you ever been employed in an official capacity by the city of Los Angeles?
Mr. KIMPLE. I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of your employment?
Mr. KIMPLE. Los Angeles police officer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time were you so employed?
Mr. KIMPLE. 1924 to 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period of time did you perform any secret assignment within the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was assigned by the Los Angeles Police Department to investigate the activities of the Communist Party in Los Angeles; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become a member of the Communist Party in carrying out that assignment ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4027
Mr. SIMPLE. I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the period of your membership ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I joined the Communist Party in 1928, and maintained continuous membership until the fall of 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you hold any position in the Communist Party ?
Mr. KITPLE. I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that position? 
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, several positions. I was a unit organizer and a unit literature agent, and a unit educational director. I was the assistant to the Los Angeles County membership director, and I was the alternate on the Los Angeles disciplinary committee. Those are a few of the main jobs I held.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were assistant membership director?
Mr. KIMPLE. For the Los Angeles County membership department, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time did you hold that position? 
Mr. KIMFLE. 1936, 1937, 1938 and 1939, up until the time I was dropped from the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. As assistant membership director, did you have access to the membership records of the Communist Party of Los Angeles?
Mr. KIMPLE. The Communist Party membership records were in my personal control at all times; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you in the hearing room at the time the previous witness was excused temporarily from the witness stand?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know his name? 
Mr. KMPLE. I know the name that I knew him by, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is that name 
Mr. KIMPLE. Louis Schneiderman, brother of William Schneiderman. I knew him very well here in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you identify the individual who preceded you on the stand as being the Louis Schneiderman that you knew ?
Mr. KIMPLE. He is the same one; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. On what do you base the statement that he is the same person you knew as Louis Schneiderman?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was very well acquainted with William Schneiderman and Louis Schneiderman at the time that I was in the Communist Party here. I worked closely with him. I used to cart him around in my automobile considerably, and I knew him very well.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend any closed Communist Party meetings with him?
Mr. KIMPLE. I have.
Mr. TAVENNER. How frequently?
Mr. KIMPLE. A minimum of 4 or 5 times a year during the years of 1935, 1936.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you what purports to be a 1938 registration blank of the industrial section, and ask you to state what it is. (Document handed to the witness.) 4028 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. KEMPLE. That is an authentic 1938 Communist Party registration blank. From this registration blank the Communist Party membership books were made, and the Communist Party membership records maintained.
Mr. TAVENNER. What connection, if any, have you had with that particular blank which is before you?
Mr. KIMPLE. This particular blank was filled out in the Communist Party unit and sent back to the membership department, and from this blank the membership book for the year 1938 was filled out, and the 1938 membership record for the Communist Party membership records was made out.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that blank show the name of the person who registered for the year 1938 ?
Mr. KIMPLE. It does.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the name?
Mr. KIMPLE. Lou Schneiderman.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer a photostatic copy of the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. MOULDER. The document will be so marked and admitted in evidence. (See p. 4029.)
Mr. MOULDER. May I inquire, does it have a signature on it?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO. It is a printed name. I hand you another card, which is marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 2" for identification only, and ask you to tell us what it is.
Mr. KIMPLE. This is the control card for the first half of 1937 in the Communist Party membership records and in the Communist Party membership book. The last page in the membership book is a control card, and at the end of June of the year the membership department checks the membership books, and if the member is paid up in dues this control card is filled out, detached from the book and sent back to the membership department. That way the membership department knows that it has an active, dues-paying member.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that an original record?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Whose control card is it ?
Mr. KIMPLE. That is also for Louis Schneiderman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you read what appears on the card?
Mr. KIMPLE. Printed is: Control card, first half of 1937. Book No. 75373. And I might add here that the book number of the Communist Party membership book and the control card were the same. Name: Louis Schneiderman. Stateand then there is a date6-22-37. County: L. A. City: L. A. District 13. Section IND- which meant industrial. Unit: Teamsters. Occupation: driver. Union: Teamsters. Mass organization: blank. Male:yes. Female:blank. Age:27. Negro:blank. White- with an X. Native: with an X. Foreign-born: blank. Dues paid up to and including month of June. KIMPLE EXHIBIT NO. 1 1938 REGISTRATION BLANK (Please write in ink) SECTION . ~ . REAL NAME .LA V ~..... .C .. CORRECT ADDRESS ..a. 7 BOOK NUMBER 1987 . . .. ...... .L PUNCTIONARY IN UNION . E..WH...ATOTIHER MASS OIIGS. .... P O AG..MALE.. #.. ............. N MPLOY) NO. WORKERS IN SHOP . ' rI........... T..... .-. Ct /f .... . COUNTY. IREN? ....... ................... . UNION A . L wH .R ................................... ....... . Nn) .................. No.) ... ..... UNEMP. MASS ORG. .......................... WHAT FUNCTION . ................ ... . m e ............. q ECTION............ R. -UNIT . WORKERS SCHOOL. ............. WHAT ARE THEIR AGES 91 .... .............. ........................... ............ .... STATE .......... NATIONAL ........... .... ... ................. NEG O........... WHITE HOUSEWIFE IOUSE WI . .................. WPA WPA (PROJECT ....... WHAT VETERANS' ORGANIZATION .................... couwiry e4a*, WIIAT FUNCTION IN PARTY...FULL TIME ......... lHOW MANY CII YEAR JOINED.J..S... ........................ PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT .......... WHAT ................ .................................................. ........ FEMALE........... VETERAN....... .. PARTY SCIIOQOGINi: .. ................ NATIONALITY .... ........ P . ,IS...gi. BRANCH ......... PARTY NAME ....... .. 1938 OCCUPATION fL. EMPLOYED . .S ....... S. COUNTRY OP.,RTI I ... PRESENT TS ............................. UNIT ........ .. .... ....................... O 4030 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer a photostatic copy of the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 2."
Mr. MOULDER. The document will be so marked and admitted in evidence. KIMPLE EXHIBIT No. 2 SCantrol Card Ta Haf f 't .1 1937fl c ? Book t^<''...... 4 53 3 ty. - Union . . Neo or pa whie n. That i orr or white person. i t, t ot e.... Forei.gborn ...... * , Duts paid p to and including mouth
Mr.TAVENNEn. I notice from Exhibit No.2 that the form of the
Mr. TAVENNER. I notice from Exhibit No. 2 that the form of the card is such that the individual must indicate whether he is a Negro or white person. The Communist Party must know whether the individual is a
Mr.KI!MPLE. iscorrect, sir.is it not? Negro or a whiteThat person. That isyes, correct,
Mr. KIMPLE. That is correct, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVNNER. Were all of the records of the Communist Party at that time required to be kept in that form
Mr. KIaiLE. I am sorry. I don't quite understand your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were all of the control cards of the Communist Party members during the period that you were a member of the Communist Party required to show whether a member was a member of the Negro race or the white race?
Mr. KIMPLE. They were, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why was that?
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, the Communist Party kept an annual list of all Communist Party members, and it was broken down as to nationality, race, color, et cetera.
Mr. TAvENNER. So much has been said by representatives of the Communist Party as to there being no distinction or no discrimination between race or color, and I was wondering the reasons for asking what one's race is on the card. I hand you another document and ask you to examine it. It is marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 3" for identification only. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4031 Will you tell us what it is, please. (The document was handed to the witness.)
Mr. KIMPLE. That is a 1938 Communist Party membership book, made out to L. Schneiderman, State of California, District 13, County Los Angeles, City Los Angeles, Section Industrial, Unit Teamsters, and the book was issued on the 12th month, the 8th day, in the 37th year. And it carries the official Communist Party seal with the stamped signature of W. Schneiderman. It is paid up in dues through the month of October.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state whether or not that is the original Communist Party book of Louis Schneiderman ?
Mr. KiMPLE. It is, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. The same person who appeared just ahead of you on the witness stand ?
Mr. KIMPLE. It is. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And answered to the name of Louis Sherman?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, it is. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer a photostatic copy of the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 3."
Mr. MoULDER. The document will be so marked and admitted in evidence. (See pp. 4032 and 4033.) May I ask now, on what do you base your answer that this document is his Communist Party book.
Mr. KIMPLE. My knowledge of it. I base my answer on that, on the personal acquaintanceship I had with him, knowing him, knowing in what part of the Communist Party he was functioning, and recognizing this book as an official Communist Party book made out to him. And there was only one Louis Schneiderman in the Communist Party here in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions of this witness, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused. Or do you want him temporarily excused ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for him to stand aside.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is temporarily excused.
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir. 
Mr. MOULDER. The subpena which has been served upon you will remain in full force and effect (Witness temporarily excused.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Now may I ask Mr. Sherman to return to the witness stand. 4032 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA KImPLE EXHIBIT No. 3 5 I3 1 I, the, 6QG6% , j A INs cin 1, h- lh. y lsxe : i15T .", T. o oft"aQ, d -. 1 - '.d t i -4 1 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4033 KIMPIE EXHIBIT No. 3-Continued 1; I TESTIMONY OF LOUIS R. SHERMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY. COUNSEL, BEN MARGOLIS-Resumed
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Sherman, I hand you "Kimple Exhibit No. 3," and ask you to examine it and tell the committee whether or not that was your Communist Party membership book. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. SHEMAN. I refuse to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, on the same ground earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you examine the book?
Mr. SHERMAN. No, I did not.
Mr. SCHERER. I want to ask one question. You have just heard the testimony of William Kimple, have you not?
Mr. SHERMAN. Yes.
Mr. SCHERER. Is anything that William Kimple told this committee about you untrue?
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Kimple is well known in this area, I understand, as an informer and a stool pigeon. I would not engage in any debate or discussion on the subject. Therefore, I refuse to answer the question.
Mr. SCHERER. I think he is a line American and has done a great job here in the Los Angeles area. But, whether you class him as a stool pigeon or not, my question is whether or not anything he said about you is untrue, no matter what you call him.
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the same grounds earlier stated.
Mr. SCHERER. We always talk about drawing an inference. I am just going to ask what other inference can anyone draw than that 4034 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Kimple was telling the absolute truth because you refuse to even deny one iota of his testimony when you have an opportunity to do so, and have had an opportunity to hear his testimony. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. Who can criticize anybody for drawing an inference from your invocation of the fifth amendment under those circumstances?
Mr. SHERMAN. Creatures who get paid money for being informers and stool pigeons are the last ones in the world that should be listened to or given any credence to.
Mr. SCHERER. But still you will not deny that he has told the truth?
Mr. SHERMAN. I have answered the question on the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. SCHEREE. You refused to answer. You didn't answer.
Mr. SHERMAN. That is right, I refuse to answer in case there is any doubt in your mind.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. SchneidermanMr. SHERMAN. My name is Sherman, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you deny your name is Schneiderman ?
Mr. SIIERMAN. I have answered that question.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask you to direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. MoULDER. The witness is directed to answer.
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the same grounds earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Schneiderman, I hand you a copy of a March 25, 1947, issue of the Daily People's World, and call your attention to an article reciting that Lou Sherman, president, CIO, Warehousemen's Union, Local 26, and others had formed a citizens' committee to elect Elsie M. Monjar, Communist, running for the city council. Will you examine the article, please. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee whether or not in 1947 you were endeavoring to assist the Communist Party in the area of Los Angeles by the formation of such a committee as referred to in that article?
Mr. SHEREMAN. I repeat, Mr. Tavenner, I am not accountable to this committee for any of my beliefs, my associations, my background and my history. Therefore, I refuse to answer your question, again on the same constitutional grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you the December 19, 1947, issue of the Daily People's World, and call your attention to an article entitled "Real Busy Meeting. Local 26 Elects, Registers Petitions." (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine it? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there any reason why you do not desire to examine it ?
Mr. SIIHERAN. Will you repeat the question?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine the paper that I have presented to you ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I don't care to examine the document. Will you kindly repeat the question ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4035
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you fully recall what I am speaking about without refreshing your recollection by examining the article?
Mr. SHERMAN. I fail to see any connection between the registration of citizens to vote and a Communist plot.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I have the article? (Document handed to Mr. Tavenner.)
Mr. TAVENNER. This article shows that a total of 110 petitions of the Independent Progressive Party were being circulated at your local meeting at a time when you were president. Will you tell the committee, please, whether or not that was being done at the instance of and as a part of the plan of the Communist Party?
Mr. SHERMAN. It seems to me that your question deals with a matter relating to what our union did at a certain time. I don't propose to get into any discussion about any of the internal affairs of our union. The executive board of our union has decided that this committee is not serving a useful legislative purpose, and members subpenaed before it should not cooperate to that extent. What you are insinuating-Mr. SCHERER. You say that is a decision of the union ?
Mr. SHERMAN. It is a matter relating to the internal affairs of our union.
Mr. SCHERER. You say it is a decision of the union that the members shall not cooperate with the committee ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I am repeating a very brief version, by the way, some of the substance of what the position is that was adopted by the executive board of our union last Wednesday night.
Mr. SCHERER. How many of that executive board are members of the Communist Party ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. MARGOLIS. Why don't you let him answer one question at a time instead of constantly interrupting, Mr. Scherer ?
Mr. SCERER. I will ask these questions the way I see fit.
Mr. MARGOLIS. You appear to be doing that. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I have lost track of the questions, Mr. Tavenner. I am not sure which of the two I should answer first.
Mr. SCHERER. I will withdraw the first question, and ask youMr. SHERMAN. Which one do you want me to answer?
Mr. SCHERER. Ask you how many members of your executive board are members of the Communist Party.
Mr. SHERMAN. I don't think I should dignify your question with any suggestion of an answer. I would refuse on constitutional grounds to answer that question. I thought that Mr. Tavenner was asking something relating to a policy or a position that was adopted by our union.
Mr. TAVENNER. No, I absolutely did not. I did not ask you for any action taken by your union. I am asking for action that was taken by you or some other person in presenting 110 petitions at that meeting. To be more specific, did, you present any of the 110 petitions at that meeting ? 4036 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SHERMAN. I will refuse to answer your question on the grounds not the that discussing any of the affairs of a labor union are really allowed property of this committee. But I will take the liberty, if I am to read a portion of a statement adopted by our union executive board dealing with this matterMr. SCHEREE. As long as he is refusing to answer and takes the fifth amendment, he cannot read any statement. If he answers the questions, we will give him all day to read a statement. But he hasn't answered one significant question we have asked. He has refused to answer.
Mr. SHERMAN. Let the record show, Mr. ChairmanMr. SCHERER. He hasn't even told us what his name is.
Mr. SHERMAN. That the witness has not limited his claim of privilege to the fifth amendment only. Only Mr. Scherer seems-Mr. SCIERER. It is the only one we recognize.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Scherer seems to prefer the fifth amendment. I will repeat: Any privileges claimed before this committee are the 1st and 5th amendments and the 9th and 10th amendments of the United States Constitution.
Mr. MOULDER. Yes; the record reveals that.
Mr. SHERMAN. I would also like to ask at this time, since reference has been made to a policy adopted by the union, that the union executive board statement adopted Wednesday night of this week be introduced into the record as the official statement that I introduce in my own behalf. I subscribe to it. I will adhere to every single word in it, and I offer it in evidence.
Mr. MOULDER. The statement will be filed.
Mr. SCHERER. No. I object to it being filed as a part of the record. If he answers the question how many Communists were on the board that adopted that statement, I will agree that it go in. But, until he answers that, I object to any action of a union board with reference to its attitude toward this committee being offered or made a part of this record.
Mr. SIHERMAN. That reinforces my belief, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. It is filed as a part of the proceedings. That doesn't mean that it is a part of the printed record. (The statement referred to was filed for the information of the committee to be retained in its files.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me go back to the question I originally asked you. It was not a matter relating to any policy of your union at all. What I am interested in is the policy of the Communist Party in the promotion of the interest of the Independent Progressive Party. I am going to ask you again who took the 110 petitions for the Independent Progressive Party to your union meeting?
Mr. SHERMAN. Do you want me to name the 110 people who circulated petitions to put the Progressive Party on the ballot in California?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO. We have quite a bit of evidence about that. But who took them to this meeting ? 
Mr. SHERMAN. I really don't remember. But if I did I would still refuse to answer the question on the same constitutional grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Whose plan was it to take these petitions to your meeting? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4037
Mr. SHERMAN. The same questionMr. TAVENNER. Was it the Communist Party ?
Mr. SHERMAN. With the same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you aware of the plan of the Communist Party to substitute the Independent Progressive Party for the Communist Party on the ballot in the State of California? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I think you are assuming something that is your own private opinion. But I choose to refuse to answer your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. You could probably enlighten the committee. The committee has heard considerable evidence on that subject. In your prominence possibly you could help the committee if you would, if you were willing.
Mr. SHERMAN. I would never stoop to the level of the informers to help this committee violate any part of the Bill of Rights of the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that because in 1947 you were a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I have answered that. I refuse on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been a subscriber to the Daily People's World?
Mr. SHERMAN. Now we are dealing with the whole question of freedom of the press and freedom to read the press. I read a lot of news- papers. It is part of my job as a representative of the union to read the labor press and a lot of the other metropolitan papers in and around the State of California.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you answer the question, please ?
Mr. SHERMAN. In response to that specific question, I don't believe I have to answer as to whether I have read or subscribed to this particular paper or any other paper. I would refuse to answer that question on constitutional grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The question is whether or not you were a subscriber. Does that change your answer?
Mr. SHERMAN. NO. My answer is still the same.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the December 24, 1947, issue of the Daily People's World, you reminded the stewards of your union that they should subscribe to the Daily People's World. Did you do that?
Mr. SHERMAN. I don't recall the incident, Mr. Tavenner, but if I did I would still refuse to answer the question on the same constitutional grounds. It happened to be an internal affair. That is the right of a union-solely to determine its own affairs, and the right of the members to determine the policies of the union and who their officers and representatives shall be. If you intend to go into that matter I shall refuse to answer that question on that particular ground in addition to the usual grounds offered earlier.
Mr. SCHERER. May I make this observation, Mr. Chairman, that the union certainly does have the right to determine its own internal affairs and elect its own officers. But the union in so doing should have all of the facts concerning its officers.
Mr. SHERMAN. Are you proposing to be- 
Mr. SCHERER. Some facts should not be hidden from them.
Mr. SHERMAN. Are you proposing to be the last word? 4038 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE IOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SCHERER. Namely, Communist membership of some of its officers. If they know that and still want to elect them, then that is perfectly all right.
Mr. SHERMAN. Apparently you see it your function to tell the members of our union and many other unions who their elected representatives shall be.
Mr. SCHERER. I didn't say that.
Mr. SHERMAN. That is exactly what you inferred. You would like to be the judge of who shall be the elected representatives of labor unions in this country.
Mr. SCHERER. I just say that I think every union member has the right to know who in its membership are members of the Communist Party and what the correct names and what the background of its officers are so that they can exercise a free choice. And then, knowing that background, if they still want to elect that individual, they have the perfect right to do so.
Mr. MOULDER. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of a petition of the Independent Progressive Party of California, at the end of which there is an affidavit bearing date the 26th day of January 1948. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine it, please, and state who signed the affidavit?
Mr. SHERMAN. I am sorry I don't follow your question, Mr. Tavenner. Would you mind repeating it?
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine the petition and state whether or not you signed the affidavit that appears at the bottom of it?
Mr. SHERMAN. I don't propose to examine the affidavit, but I would like to hear your question again.
Mr. TAVENNER. Again ? 
Mr. SCHERER. Wait a minute. I move that the witness be directed to examine the document in order that Mr. Tavenner may propound the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Sherman Exhibit No. 1," for identification.
Mr. MOULDER. The exhibit will be so marked and admitted in evidence. (This exhibit is similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 1, p. 3957, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. MOULDER. Now the exhibit is before you, Mr. Sherman, and you are directed to examine it for the purpose of qualifying yourself to answer questions or to decline to answer questions which may be propounded by counsel. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I am going to refuse to answer any questions concerning this document. So I, therefore, propose to refuse to examine the document.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, the affidavit at the end of the document appears over the name of the affiant, Louis Sherman. And it states under oath that Louis Sherman was the person who circulated that document and who procured the signatures on that document. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4039 
Mr. MOULDEn. I do not believe the witness was asked a question as to whether or not he did circulate the petition and sign the affidavit you referred to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you obtain the signatures appearing on the document presented to you?
Mr. SHERMAN. I again refuse to answer the question on the same grounds earlier indicated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it a part of the Communist Party plan that you should circulate that document and obtain others in your union to follow your bidding in such action?
Mr. SHERMAN. It seems to me that Henry Wallace was the founder of the third party movement in this country some years ago, which resulted in the establishment of this party. I don't propose to go into it, Mr. Tavenner. I don't think it is a proper subject for the inquiry of this committee. And I properly will refuse to answer this question on constitutional grounds.
Mr. SCHERER. The unions and everybody else have the right to know whether any of its officers are using the unions to promote Communist Party programs within the union. They have that right to that knowledge. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. Then, as I said before, if, having that knowledge, they want to take certain action, they have a right to do it. And this committee proposes to show how the Communist Party used the unions in certain cases to promote objectives of the Communist Party and not necessarily the fine objectives of the union, and without the knowledge of the rank and file.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Tavenner, those remarks of Mr. Scherer are highly offensive and insulting to the members of the union I represent. It assumes that they haven't got enough brains to make up their own minds about any question, whether it be political or economic. I just want to remind you that any position that this union has ever taken on any matter, whether it involves wages or politics or economics, have been taken with the knowledge and the approval of the members of our union.
Mr. SCHERER. Have you told the union at any time that you were an active member of the Communist Party (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. You are assuming something, Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. SHERMAN. I have stated on innumerable earlier occasions that I will refuse to answer that and any of the similar questions on constitutional grounds. That is an invasion of the privacy and of the rights of any American, and I don't propose to allow this committee to do it tome.
Mr. SCHERER. When you are not under oath and when you are at union meetings don't you think the union has the-right to know from you, when you are not under oath, whether or not you are a member of the Communist Party (The witness confers with his counsel.) 77436-56-pt. 10- 10 4040 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SHERMAN. If you were a member of the union you would have a right to get up and propose that. I doubt if the members of our union would listen to you.
Mr. SCHERER. You still evaded the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Holding the positions that you have held since 1947 in your local union, were you required to sign what is known as the Taft-Hartley affidavit, affidavit of non-Communist union officer? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. This again, Mr. Tavenner, is a matter that involves the internal affairs of our union. Various unions choose to comply or not to comply, depending upon their own peculiar circumstances, conditions, or their own choosing. Whether our union does it or does not, whether we signed or did not sign is a matter, I believe, for union mem- bers to determine. And it is an internal matter of the unon, and not a subject for inquiry of this committee.
Mr. SCHERER. Let's correct that a little bit. That is a law. Whether you agree with the law or not, I assume that all unions follow the law. And we are very much interested in whether or not an individual complies with the provisions of the Taft-Hartley law. It certainly is a proper subject of investigation of this committee because it deals directly with a union member saying whether or not he is a member of the Communist Party. And that is what we are investigating.
Mr. MOULDER. You mean officers.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Scherer, you are inferring that unions that do not so-called comply are perhaps living outside the law. May I remind you that there are some great labor organizations in this country, like the United Mine Workers and International Typographical Union, who do not choose to abide by the affidavit provisions of the Taft-Hartley law. But I would say unequivocally that every labor union in this country abides by the law. And whether or not it seeks to exercise its rights under the National Labor Relations Act is a matter primarily of its own choosing. Some do and some don't. But don't attribute any evil motives to those that may or may not.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have taken 10 minutes to avoid answering my question. Were you required as an officer to sign a non-Communist affidavit?
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the same constitutional grounds announced earlier.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of a non-Communist union officer's affidavit marked "Sherman Exhibit No. 2," and I ask you to examine it and state whether or not you signed it. (Document placed on the witness table.) 
Mr. SHERMAN. I will refuse to answer that question. Therefore, it is no use or need for me to examine the document.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Sherman Exhibit No. 2." 
Mr. MoULDER. The document will be so marked and admitted in evidence. (This exhibit is similar to Al Caplan exhibit No. 1, p. 4056, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4041 
Mr. MOULDER. I would suggest that, first, the witness be directed to examine the document in order that he might have an opportunity to qualify himself to answer the questions you may ask him about it. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I will answer no questions about this document, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you also decline or refuse to examine it?
Mr. SHERMAN. Therefore, there is no need for me to examine this document I refer to.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the date of the sworn statement?
Mr. WHEELER. The 12th day of January 1956.
Mr. TAVENNER. The document reads as follows: The undersigned, being duly sworn, deposes and says: "1. I am a responsible officer of the union named below; "2. I am not a member of the Communist Party or affiliated with such party; "3. I do not believe in and I am not a member of nor do I support any organization that believes in or teaches the overthrow of the United States Government by force or by any illegal or unconstitutional means." Warehouse, Processing and Distribution Workers Union, Local 26, International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union. Louis R. SHERMAN, (Signature) Secretary-Treasurer, 9517 Ceylon Avenue, Los Angeles 45, Calif. Sworn and subscribed to before me this 12th day of January 1956, a notary public or other person authorized by law to administer oaths and take acknowledgements in and for the county of Los Angeles, State of California. My commission expires November 27, 1959. Jacob Lehman is the signature. Were you a member of the Communist Party on the 12th day of January 1956, the date of this sworn affidavit?
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the same constitutional grounds announced earlier.
Mr. TAVENNER. I offer in evidence a second affidavit of non-Communist union officer marked "Sherman Exhibit No. 3," for identification, bearing date of January 6, 1955, and I will ask you to examine it and state whether or not you gave that sworn statement on the date indicated.
Mr. MOULDER. The document will be so marked and admitted in evidence. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I will again refuse to answer that question on the same constitutional grounds indicated earlier.
Mr. MoULDER. Witness, you are directed to examine the document referred to by counsel, marked "Sherman Exhibit No. 3."
Mr. SHERMAN. For the same reason, Mr. Chairman, I will refuse to examine the document. It is unnecessary since I am not going to answer the question anyway.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on the 6th day of January 1955?
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the same constitutional grounds announced earlier.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you execute a non-Communist affidavit for the year 1954?
Mr. SHERMAN. I will again refuse to answer that question on the same constitutional grounds. 4042 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time during January of the year 1954?
Mr. SHERMAN. I again refuse to answer that question on the same: constitutional grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you execute a non-Communist affidavit under the Taft-Hartley Act for the year 1953 ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I again refuse to answer that question on the same constitutional grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any; time during January of 1953 ?
Mr. SHERMAN. The same question; the same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party during any day of January 1952?
Mr. SHERMAN. I will decline to answer on the same constitutional grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. For the year 1951 ?
Mr. SHERMAN. The same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. 1950? 
Mr. SHERMAN. The same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. 1949?
Mr. SHERMAN. The same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. 1948 ? 
Mr. SHERMAN. The same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time during the year 1947 ?
Mr. SHERMAN. The same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Communist Party now?
Mr. SHERMAN. The same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. MOULDER. Any questions, Mr. Scherer ?
Mr. SCHERER. No questions.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is excused.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Thomas A. Chapman.
Mr. MOULDER. Will you hold up your right hand and be sworn, please. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you, God ?
Mr. CHAPMAN. Yes, sir. TESTIMONY OF THOMAS A. CHAPMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL BEN MARGOLIS Mr. KIMPLE. The Young Pioneer organization was that organization which was organized y the Communist Party for the children at about high-school age, about I would say 10 to 14 or 15 years of age. They were under the direct supervision of the Young Communist League. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1743 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the general function of the Young Pioneers?
Mr. KIMPLE. That was sort of the Communist organization to counteract the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. They would hold the regular meetings, attend the Communist demonstrations, and then their summer schools and picnics, et cetera.
Mr. DOYLE. Why in the world would the Communists want to counteract and oppose the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts? What is wrong with the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts of America?
Mr. KIMPLE. They opposed the dictatorship of the proletariat as advocated by the Soviet Union and that is against the Communist theory, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I understand you to say that the Young Pioneer group had their picnics? Did they also have summer camps?
Mr. KIMPLE. They did; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell the committee or do you recall where any of the camps were conducted ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I recall one in particular, sir, which was at Yukipa, I believe was the name of the place. It is up in the San Bernardino area. As I recall, there was a raid on this camp where they found they were teaching the youth allegiance to the Red flag. I believe several young Communists were held to answer for that in the courts.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall about when that was?
Mr. KIMPLE. It was early in my period in the organization, sir. I would say late twenties or early thirties.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have no knowledge of activities within the Communist Party since 1939; do you?
Mr. KIMPLE. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, will you tell the committee, please how the Communist Party was set up organizationally speaking from the time you first became a member of it ?
Mr. KIMPLE. When I first joined the Communist Party it was in language branches and then they changed. As the party grew they dropped the language branch and took it on a street basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many language branches were there at the time you became a member when you said there were I believe about a hundred members ?
Mr. KIMPLE. As I recall, sir, it was a Russian branch, an English branch, a Jewish branch, and I think there was one other, I don't recall. As I recall, there were four branches that come to my memory now. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did the Communist Party continue to function through these four branches ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, sir, practically immediately after I joined in 1928 they began changing into street units.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall now how any units were organized?
Mr. KIMPLE. I am sorry, sir, I couldn't tell you that because it fluctuated so. I believe by the time I left the party that-I am going to have to be excused from giving that exact number, but I believe there is a document that tells how many units there were at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there an additional type of organizational setup in addition to the units? 1744 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. KirPLE. As the Communist Party grew here in the Los Angeles area they divided the Los Angeles subdistrict into subsections. We had I believe maybe as high as 18 or 20 subdivisions and then each subsection was divided into units and then later they changed the setup to congressional districts and each congressional district would have assembly district branches and that was the setup at the time I left. About that time, too, or just a little earlier than that, an industrial section was set up which was for the workers in the industrial districts of the city. Then there was a special section for Hollywood and then there was a professional section.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you speak of a section for Hollywood, do you mean a section in which the talent elements were members or are you speaking of trade groups in the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. NO, sir; the Hollywood District as a geographic district was set up in street units but then they had the units of the prop men and various trades and the talent groups in a separate section.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the course of the hearings here in 1952, we heard testimony relating to Communist Party membership in units such as J-6 or J-5. What did that mean in the form of an organizational setup ?
Mr. KIMPLE. That was the designation of a street unit in Hollywood. The J signified the Hollywood subsection.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall how many J subdivisions there were ?
Mr. KIMPLE. That again fluctuated, sir. There was J-1. J-2, J-3, J-4, J-5. J-6, J-7, J-8, J-9, J-10. That is all I can recall for sure right now, but they were not all in force at the same time; that is, up until the last period.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do I understand that they were street sections or street units ?
Mr. KIMrLE. They were street units; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the section organizer of the Communist Party in charge of the J units, do you recall? 
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes. Mike Shanchig.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name, please?
Mr. KIMPLE. It would be phonetic, S-h-a-n-c-h-i-g, I believe. I am not sure. Then Arthur Strange was organizer for a short time and Davida Franchi became orgamzer and she held that job for several years.
Mr. TAVENNER. D-a-v-i-d-a ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; F-r-a-n-c-h-i.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who was the organizer in charge of the talent groups in Hollywood ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I believe that was Jeff Kibre who started that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what units of the Communist Party you were assigned to by the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. My first one was unit 32, which I held until the Hollywood section was formed and then when the Hollywood section was formed in, I believe, about 1934 I was assigned to unit J-6 and then later to unit J-9 and then after I left the units because of work in the Communist Party and became a member at large in 1938. A member at large is a Communist Party member who is not assigned to functions in any given unit. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1745 
Mr. TAVENNER. That is the meaning of the term "member at large"?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any assistance furnished by the police department for the work that you were doing within the Communist Party?
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. KIMPLE. I did. TAVENNER. Who was that individual? KIMPLE. Clara Osvald, O-s-v-a-l-d. TAVENNER. Did she become your wife ? 
Mr. KIMPLE. She later became my wife; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she employed by the police department?
Mr. KIMPLE. She was.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe she is now deceased ?
Mr. KIMPLE. She is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what duties were assigned you by your police department ? What was it you were supposed to do in the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. To keep the police department informed to the best of my ability of the "who and what and when" and the "where and the why" of the Communist movement and activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what duties were assigned you by the Communist Party to be carried out in your position as assistant to the membership director ? 
Mr. KIMPLE. My duties as the assistant to the membership director were to keep the membership records of the Communist Party in order to assist in the annual registration of the Communist Party members, to assist in the annual issuance of Communist Party membership books, to assist in the midyear control of the Communist Party membership books. That was an activity taken about the 1st of July to check on all Communist Party members to see to it that they were paid up in dues and when they were, when their book was inspected and found to be paid-up members, then a control card was detached from the membership book and sent back to the membership commission. Then I, as assistant membership director, would check against the records and show that they were Communist Party members in good standing. I would assist also in transfer of Communist Party memthat bers from one unit to another, one section to another; see to ittimes their Communist Party cards were kept in place so that at all was we knew where each Communist Party member was and where he functioning and what his duty was supposed to be. in
Mr. TAVENNER. Then it would be correct to say that you had another the record your custody or under your control at one time or area? Angeles of memberships in the Communist Party in the Los 
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, how you in the police performed the duties assigned to you by your superior department? police department in furnishing the information to the at all times to
Mr. KIMPLE. I kept the police department informed here the best of my ability of the activities of the Communist Party that I evidence in Los Angeles. I furnished him all documentary activities, on could possibly secure, I gave written and oral reports membership and I furnished him copies of the Communist Party the Communist records and, where possible, I furnished him copies of I turned in to him Party membership registration and, where possible, 1746 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA the Communist Party membership books which were picked up at the end of the year when the new books were issued, and the old books I turned over to him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it supposed to be the practice of the Communist Party to destroy the old books when the new year began?
Mr. KIMPLE. My instructions were to destroy the old books and the method I used was to turn them over to the police department.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you follow that practice with regard to the entire membership of the Communist Party during the period that you were the membership director? I mean, did you furnish the department with the records of membership of all of the members?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you said at the time that you left the party in 1939 the number of Communist Party members was 2,880.
Mr. KIrPLE. I said that that was my recollection of the number at the beginning of 1939 when we made the 1939 registration, but there was recruiting and I believe it was about 3,000 by the middle of 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. Incidentally, you said when you began the work in the Communist Party, the membership was 100.
Mr. KIMPLE. In round figures; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How quickly was it after you became a member that the party grew in substantial numbers?
Mr. KIMPLE. About 1930, sir, it started growing with great rapidity.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you attribute that to any particular thing?
Mr. KIMPLE. I would definitely attribute it to the depression; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Coming back to the question of the records, you said you had some assistance in this work from another person employed by the police department. In what way did she assist you in that work ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, sir, we worked as a team all the time and she was the Los Angeles County dues secretary for the Hollywood subsection, dues secretary at the time she was in the new unit. She was also secretary of the Los Angeles County disciplinary committee of the Communist Party. And working together we kept the police department pretty well informed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you recently been in a position to review the reports and records which you and the person whom you later married turned over to the police department?
Mr. KIMPLE. I have, yes, sir; many of them, not all of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discover the original records which you had prepared yourself? 
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you discover the reports of the disciplinary committee of the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Incidentally, did you serve on that committee, too, at times, the disciplinary committee?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was an alternate on that committee, yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of that disciplinary com- mittee?
Mr. KIMPLE. The disciplinary committee was the committee in the Communist Party which acted as a court to enforce Communist Party COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1747 discipline upon its members. If any person violated the Communist Party dictates they were called before the disciplinary committee and they were given a hearing and the disciplinary committee then would make a finding.
Mr. JACKSON. Did they ever plead the fifth amendment ?
Mr. KIMPLE. In the Communist Party, sir, there is no fifth amendment and no freedom of speech, either, may I say, sir.
Mr. DoYLE. If they are in this country they still live under the United States Constitution. Why don't they plead the fifth amendment?
Mr. KIMPLE. Because the chairman of the disciplinary committee would not be as lenient as you are, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course the difference is that the United States Congress recognizes the right of any American citizen to plead the fifth amendment or any other amendment or section of the Constitution, if they can do it in good faith and honestly. We are as anxious to protect the right as any one because it affects our rights, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether a person by the name of Virginia Farmer appeared before the disciplinary committee or commission for any purpose?
Mr. KIrLE. Yes, sir; she did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the incident well enough to describe it to the committee ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, it is rather hazy, sir. She was one of a group who was in the Federal Theater projects, I believe, one of the relief agencies.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say one of a group. Are you speaking of a Communist Party group or some other group ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Communist Party group; yes, sir. And there was disagreement among the Communist Party fraction in that theater group as to the correct activities and behavior of the various Communist Party members, and I remember we had a hearing in which she was involved, and several others.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the names at this time of any of the witnesses that appeared against her in that hearing
Mr. KIMPLE. I can recall the names of 2 or 3 of the other people who were in that hearing. I do not recall just exactly for sure what their various functions in there were. Naomi McGenty was one, I believe Howland Chamberlin was another, and a young fellow who used to be in my unit in Hollywood there, too, Carl Brant was another one. That is all I can recall right now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell us anything else about Carl Brant?
Mr. KIMPLE. Carl Brant was a member of the unit to which I was an organizer for a while. He was a young fellow who was in the motion-picture industry. He was a struggling young actor. That was my knowledge of him at the time that he was in the Communist Party when I was there. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the result of the action against Virginia Farmer ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I am sorry, sir, I am a little hazy on that. I do not recall for sure just what the results of that hearing were.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you from your own recollection know that she was a member of the Communist Party? 1748 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. KIMPLE. I know for a fact that she was a member of the Com- munist Party, yes, sir, because when you came to that hearing you had to bring your membership book and give an account to the secretary of your standing in the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. I am quite confident that the witness has been advised with respect to the introduction of names into the hearing, but I should like to have it affirmatively stated in the record that in the introduction of names the witness is not to give the name of any individual of whose membership he does not have personal knowledge, either from attendance in meetings of the Communist Party, by virtue of personal knowledge of Communist membership cards or the presence of the name on a membership list-that is, some positive means of further identification beyond that of the name itself. You understand that?
Mr. KIMPLE. May I ask one question along that line? Does attendance to closed Communist Party membership meetings constitute that?
Mr. JACKSON. That I would say would be the No. 1 method of identification.
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; I understand that very well.
Mr. JACKsoN. I thought that should be in the record.
Mr. KIMPLE. I understand that clearly.
Mr. DOYLE. I am sure our legal counsel has stated the same thing to you.
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have now located a notice in handwriting relating to the disciplinary hearing which we have mentioned. I desire to hand it to the witness and ask him to refresh his recollection as to the result of the hearing of Virginia Farmer. Before doing so, I want to ask you whether you recognize the handwritten notes which have been presented to you?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; those are the handwritten notes of my former wife. From the notes here I see she was censured.
Mr. TAVENNER. She was not expelled from the Communist Party but was censured?
Mr. KIMPLE. Not from this hearing; no, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I think the record should show that Virginia Farmer was subpenaed as a witness here in one of the early hearings in Los Angeles and refused to testify about her knowledge of Communist Party activities, relying on the fifth amendment. Do you recall the nature of the complaint against her? I think I should read, out of fairness to her, what is said about her activity. This is a charge made by FranchiWPA unit made up of all WPA workers on cultural projects, Farmer made certain decisions. Meanwhile it came to our attention that a plan had been laid down by Virginia Farmer aided by a man representing himself as representative of CEC. Virginia Farmer did not consult FR- which presumably means the Franchi woman.
Mr. IMPLE. NO; Fred Franchi.
Mr. TAVENNER (reading): At any time, acted individualistic. Her plan did Irreparable damage to the unit. As I understand, the decision was that she was censured for the action that she took, but not expelled. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1749 
Mr. JACKsoN. Isn't giving information like that usually referred to by the Communists as being a stoolpigeon? It is if it is a Government witness passing on tidbits of information, especially the serious crime of being an individualist. That is a very serious matter, is it not, being an individualist within the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; that is true. She was a definite individualist.
Mr. SCHERER. She only was suspended?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; suspension means she is given certain tasks to perform and she must abide by the decisions for a given length of time.
Mr. SCHERER. Placed on sort of probation.
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; on probation.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you personally acquainted with a man named Matt Pelman?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you what appears to be 2 original Communist Party books and 2 other documents, and I will ask you to identify them and state what they are and also to explain the documents to the committee.
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, sir, two 3 by 5 filing cards are the filing cards which the membership department of the Communist Party in Los Angeles kept their membership records. One of these cards was kept for each Communist Party member with the information on it as was taken from either his blank that he signed when he joined the Communist Party or from the annual registration. This one blank here which saysMatt Pelman, Los Angeles, transfer YCL, c-M Mill- shows me Matt Pelman was transferred from the Young Communist League to the mill unit of the Good Year subsection. The next card shows me he was a member in the Good Year subsection, his Communist Party membership book is in the upper left-hand corner and the date that he joined the Communist Party is in the upper righthand corner with the word "millmen" in the center which means that he was in that unit. His real name, Matt Pelman, party name is the same, address 224 South Spring Street, which was the Communist Party headquarters, sir. His occupation was cabinetmaker. He was a member of the United Brotherhood of Masons and Carpenters, I believe it is, local 884 of the AFL, also a member of the Young Communist League. He was born in the United States of America in 1910 who reand the word "by" there was put in in cases when we knew cruited them, we put that on but that is not on there.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of his joining :he Communist Party? This says 1928, sir.
Mr. KIrs.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that the date of the card, or is itnext book is the
Mr. KIMPLE. That is the date of his joining. This Pelman with Matt to issued book membership Party Communist 1937 the upper the book No. 75471, which, may I add, is the number in and county left-hand corner of the filing card. The State of California section. Year Good 13, district of Los Angeles, city of Los Angeles, 1936 with the ComThis book was issued on the 22d day of December on here. munist Party seal and the signature William Schneiderman 1750 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA That signature William Schneiderman is in the handwriting of my former wife. She was instructed by the Communist Party executive committee here in Los Angeles to sign the Communist Party membership books for the year 1937. On the following pages are the Communist Party dues stamps showing he paid 10 cents a month for the first half of the year, including his international solidarity stamp of the same denomination. That international solidarity stamp was an assessment that was levied against the Communist Party members every 4 months and the money collected was to go to aid the Communist Party in other countries of the world. It shows that his book was checked in midyear and the midyear control stamp was placed there. The July, August, September, October, and November dues stamps are in place. The second international solidarity stamp is missing. The last international solidarity stamp and the December dues stamp are missing but an "0. K. 10 cents" pencil written note is there. That is a practice which dues secretary frequently used in the case of where they did not have a dues stamp to put in at the time the Communist Party member paid his dues. And a stamp was issued for that dime.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to introduce those four documents in evidence.
Mr. KIMPLE. There is one more.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me. 
Mr. KIMPLE. Two more. The next is a 1938 Communist Party membership book No. 60958 made out to Matt Pelman, California, district 13, city Los Angeles, section Youth unit Youth; book was issued on the 1st day of December 1937, with a Communist Party stamp and William Schneiderman's name stamped in with a rubber stamp. Again the dues stamps for the first half of the year is 10 cents, and the international solidarity stamp and the midyear control stamp are in place. The last half of the year 1938 penciled notation "Pd." meaning paid was marked in all the places for dues stamps. Also in the back pages is the assessment for the 10th convention of the Communist Party. (Representative Scherer left the hearing room.)
Mr. KIMPLE. The next is 1939 Communist Party membership card receipt. This little blue receipt is the first page inside the Communist Party membership book when it is issued to the Communist Party member. As he receives the membership book he is supposed to sign the receipt card saying that he has received the membership book Then the receipt card is detached from the book, the book given to the Communist Party member and the receipt card goes back to the membership department.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the five documents in evidence and ask that they be marked "Kimple Exhibits 5, 6, 7 and 8 and 9," respectively, for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. They will be so received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you personally acquainted with Max Natapoff I
Mr. KIMPLE. I was. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1751 
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you three documents and I will ask you to identify them and explain them. The spelling is N-a-t-a-p-o-f-f.
Mr. KIMPLE. The first I have here is a 3 by 5 filing card which was the Communist Party membership record of Max Natapoff, the address 900 North Hazard Street with the Party name of Mac Roth, R-o-t-h.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does both his true name and party name appear on the card?
Mr. KIMPLE. It does here, yes, sir. However, may I add that to my knowledge that was not his correct party name. His correct party name was Max Roth. That was in later years. I see here this other card verifies my statement. He was listed as a technician and the mass organization to which he was assigned was the ILD, which is the International Labor Defense. There are three book numbers on here which are his Communist Party membership book, shows he was assigned to B-11, that would be the Boyle Heights section which is the east side section of the Communist Party here in Los Angeles. And he joined the Communist Party in the 9th month, 23d day, year 1933, shows he was Jewish, age 27, shows he paid 60 cents for his initiation.
Mr. MOULDER. May I suggest that these exhibits could be referred to by counsel in such a way as they could be identified and offered in the record at length so as to expedite proceedings without the witness reading them all ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. I will do that with the next one.
Mr. KIMPLE. Do you wish me to go on explaining this one?
Mr. TAVENNER. If it is satisfactory to complete this one.
Mr. MOULDER. Yes.
Mr. KIMPLE. The next is a 3 by 5 filing card which was the Communist Party membership record of Max Natapoff, showing his 1937 Communist Party membership book number, showing that he was assigned to the east side section unit B-l, which is the Boyle Heights area, as I said a moment ago, showed he joined the Communist Party in 1932, real name Max Natapoff, party name Max Roth, address 900 North Hazard Street, a laboratory technician, a member of the hospital workers union No. 19986 of the AFL. He was assigned to the International Labor Defense as a mass organizer, and was born in the United States of America in 1905.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not he held a position in his union?
Mr. KIMPLE. That I do not know, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.
Mr. KIMPLE. The next is a 1938 Communist Party membership book receipt card made out to Max Roth, State of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles City, east side section unit 1, on the 9th day of December 1937, signed Max Roth.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the three documents in evidence and ask that they be marked "Kimple Exhibits 10, 11, and 12" respectively, for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. They will be so received and so marked.
Mr. MOULDER. Would you recognize or know any of the individuals you have referred to in your testimony and whose membership cards you have identified? 1752 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir. I can recognize Mr. Natapoff. 
Mr. MOULDER. As I understand, they all have been subpenaed as witnesses here?
Mr. TAVENNER. Those two have. 
Mr. KIMPLE. I have seen Mr. Natapoff in this room since the hearing started.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask a question? Subsequent to your leaving the Communist Party, have you from time to time2 as might conceivably be the case, discussed the Communist Party with others whom you knew during their period in the Communist Party and who them- selves left for one reason or another
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. In general relating this to the operations as you have described them, the structural organization of the party, is there any consideration given aside from the movement underground, are there any substantial changes in tactics or procedures which you have discussed with others, which varied from your own experience, if you recall at the moment? There are no more membership cards, I presume?
Mr. KIMPLE. I have not had opportunity to discuss the activities of the Communist Party in late years with anyone. All those whom I knew that I have talked with since were also in the party at the time I was and we are in complete accord on the activities of the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you. (Representative Scherer returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to present one other card here for the witness to identify.
Mr. DOYLE. Very well, proceed. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you personally acquainted with Tashia Freed ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a card and ask you to identify it. Before doing so, do you know whether or not she was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. She was. She was a functionary in the Hollywood section of the Communist Party at the time I was in there.
Mr. DOYLE. How do you know that? 
Mr. KIMPLE. I have sat in many closed Communist Party functionary meetings with her, I have been in closed Communist Party meetings in her home, I have sold her Communist Party membership dues stamps.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you. 
Mr. KIMPLE. This, sir, is a transfer card, transferring a Communist Party member from one unit to another as was the policy in the Communist Party in the late thirties.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that an original document
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed in your description of it. 
Mr. KIMPLE. This shows that the Communist Party member by the right name of Anne Pollock, party name Anne Burton, of 6530 Maryland Drive, transferred from the Hollywood section unit J-5 to the 57th assembly district branch, showing that the Communist Party member and Pollock's dues were paid up to January 1938 and was assigned by Tashia Freed, the unit membership director. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1753 
Mr. TAVENNER. Is it signed in handwriting?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Kimple No. 13" for identification only. SMr. DOYLE. So received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Mary Aidlin?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her name prior to marriage ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Mary Raiden.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she known to you to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. She was.
Mr. TAVENNER. On what do you base your knowledge ?
Mr. KIMPLE. She was a functionary in the Hollywood section of the Communist Party in Los Angeles. I attended many functionary meetings which were closed to Communist Party functionaries only with her, I have been to her home and sold her Communist Party dues stamps. She was a Connmunist Party dues secretary at the unit level for a while.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know her husband's name ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Joseph Aidlin.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee what Communist Party information you have with regard to him, if any ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I have sat in on 1 or 2 Communist Party meetings in their home which was on Randall Court in Los Angeles, at which he was present.
Mr. TAVENNER. When who was present?
Mr. KIMPLE. Joseph Aidlin and Mary Raiden and we knew her as Mary Raiden in the Communist Party, sir, always referred to her by that name. And then later, about 1938, I believe, or maybe 1939, I saw Joseph Aidlin's membership record in the professional section of the Communist Party. That is about the extent of the knowledge I have of his activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the approximate date of the records that you referred to as showing that he was a member of a professional cell or group of the Communist Party
Mr. KIMPLE. My best recollection, sir, is about 1938.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask, these meetings at their homes, were there any persons in that room who were not Commumsts to your personal knowledge ?
Mr. KIMPLE. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was every person there, including Mr. Aidlin, to your personal knowledge a member of the Communist Party ? May I ask it this way: Was that a closed meeting ?
Mr. KIMPLE. That was a closed meeting, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us whether or not Mr. Aidlin took any part in the meetings, if you can recall?
Mr. KIMPLE. I recall his presence, sir, but I don't recall now whether he took any part. the
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know who owned the property in which meetings were held which you referred to?
Mr. KIMPLE. I do not know who owned that property, no, sir. It back of was just a little short street about one block long, dead end, in 1754 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Ralph's grocery store on Santa Monica and Vermont. The street entered in from Santa Monica to the north.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Harold Ashe?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether Harold Ashe had ever lived at that same address?
Mr. KIMPLE. He lived in that court, sir. I am not positive it was the same house, but he lived in that same area.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been able to find from records that Mr. Wheeler, the investigator, gave you to examine any record of membership of Joseph Aidlin in the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I do not believe I saw any cards or documentary evidence pertaining to his membership.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you find cards relating to the membership of his wife, known to you as Mary Raiden?
Mr. KIMPLE. I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me discuss whether or not you were personally acquainted with James Burford.
Mr. KIMPLE. I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not he was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; he was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I wanted to comply with the suggestion of a member that I read the material to the witness on these cards but I am afraid I may misdescribe them because I am not fully familiar with the meaning of the things I see on them. I should let the witness describe them rather than attempt to do it myself.
Mr. DOYLE. Very well, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you three documents and ask you to state what they are, please, and describe them.
Mr. DoYLE. Under the circumstances, you can't comply with the valuable suggestion Mr. Moulder made.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish I could, but I am afraid I would make a mistake about it.
Mr. KIMPLE. One is a transfer card written in pencil, handwriting, shows that Ron Hillyer (Burford) transferred from Oakland 6-24-35, Holly. That is a note from the membership department showing that Ron Hillyer, which was the Communist Party membership name for Jim Burford, that he had transferred into Los Angeles from Oakland and had been assigned to the Hollywood section. The next is a Communist Party membership record, a 3 by 5 filing card showing real name Jim Burford, party name Hillyer, occupation office worker, member of the Office Workers Union Local No. 15251, born in 1910, with Communist Party membership book numbers on it, and a note Hollywood, meaning Hollywood section, and penciled under, "Industrial," meaning he transferred from the Hollywood to the industrial section. Next is a Communist membership book receipt card for the year 1938 in the name of Ron Hillyer, signed in pen, section Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the three documents in evidence and ask they be marked "Kimple Exhibits 14, 15, and 16" respectively for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. They will be received and so marked. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1755 
Mr. MOULDER. Did you have custody of those cards you have identified?
Mr. KIMPLE. I did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have they been in your possession since that period of time?
Mr. KIMPLE. In my possession just for purposes of identification. I have not kept them all these years if that is what you mean.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. KIMPLE. No, sir. They were in the hands of the police department.
Mr. TAVENNER. They are the same as you had when they were in your custody?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What means did the Communist Party use to raise funds necessary to advance its projects and pay its operating expenses?
Mr. KIMPLE. From the sale of Communist Party dues stamps, a certain percentage was kept by the unit, a certain percentage was kept by the section, and a certain percentage was kept by the district and the balance sent to the national office. There were public meetings held at which admission was charged, there were financial contributions, and various drives to finance special drives, special activities. Those are some.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive substantial contributions from time to time?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall any substantial contributions that were made by persons that you knew to be members of the Communist Party? Now if they were made by persons you did not know to be members of the Communist Party we do not want to hear it in open session.
Mr. MOULDER. You mean Mr. Tavenner, that you wouldn't want to hear in open session contributions made to the Communist PartyMr. TAVENNER. By a person that he did not know to be a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. MOULDER. I think any one who makes a contributionMr. JAoKsoN. If a contribution is knowingly made to the Communists it would be entirely proper.
Mr. DOYLE. If there is evidence that the contributor knew that he was actually putting it into the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is the point exactly, and if we have not had an opportunity to make some type of investigation, I wanted that privilege before making it public.
Mr. JACKSON. The point is if the witness approached Mr. A and said "We want a contribution for the Communist Party," and Mr. A gave it to him, with that knowledge, it should be read into the record.
Mr. TAVENNER. I agree.
Mr. KIMPLE. I recall that there were financial contributions made to the Communist Party through my wife and I in the amount of $50 by Tess Schlesinger each month for several months and the man she He is a married, Mr. Davis, whose first name has slipped my mind. technician motion-picture cutter, I believe. He was a very highly paid slip in the motion-picture industry at the time. He also gave us a pink Party to a Ford automobile, which was turned over to the Commumstdollars for the Communist Party's use and he contributed a hundred 1756 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA for 2 oror r 4 months, and then upped it to $500 a month and then that went on for 2 or 3 months and then we were relieved of the assignment of collecting their money and somebody else took it up.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did those individuals know the purpose for which the money was being given? That is, that it was for the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Who was this individual ? 
Mr. KIMPLE. Mr. Davis and Miss Schlesinger.
Mr. MOULDER. Five hundred dollars a month, you say ?
Mr. KIMPLE. By Mr. Davis.
Mr. MOULDER. Who was Mr. Davis? 
Mr. KIMPLE. He was a film cutter, I believe, a technician in the industry, and as I recall, he was supposed to have been one of the best in that field at that time.
Mr. DOYLE. What year was that, approximately?
Mr. KIMPLE. That I believe was about 1933, I believe it was a 1932 Ford V-8 that he gave and so it followed right after that so it would have been 1933.
Mr. MOULDER. My question was directed to what year did he give you that money, from one to five hundred dollars a month.
Mr. KIMPLE. That, as I say, follows from the fact that I remember it was a 1932 Ford and it was right after that, so it would have been 1933.
Mr. MOULDER. You stated in answer to Mr. Tavenner's question
Mr. Davis knew where this Ford was going, that it was going to the Communist Party and that this money he gave you and your wife was going to the Communist Party. How did he know that? On what do you base your statement that he knew the Ford was going to the benefit of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, we were introduced to him as Communist Party members and he was introduced to us as a Communist Party member and he was informed that we were authorized by the Communist Party to take up his contribution and that we were to turn it in to the organizer of the Communist Party here in Los Angeles, which we did.
Mr. DoYLE. All right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the circumstances under which he gave the Ford to you? Why did he make a contribution of the Ford car ? Was there anything about that that might help to identify him or where he was?
Mr. KIMPLE. About that time he was leaving for Soviet Russia. He was going to go to Soviet Russia to get firsthand information, to see for himself what conditions were like in the Soviet Union, and he and Nora Helgren and one other made that trip.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Nora Helgren ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Very well. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a person known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. She was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you seen him since that occasion, this man, Davis?
Mr. KIMPLE. Not to my knowledge. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1757 
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you are unable to recall his first name. I think I could refresh your recollection about it but I want to be certain to see whether you can do it without any aid or refreshing first.
Mr. KIMPLE. I believe his name, sir, was the same as the name of this professor who testified here a day or so ago.
Mr. TAVENNER. But he was not the same man as the professor ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Not the same man.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall what the professor's name was ?
Mr. KIMPLE. No, sir; it slipped my mind.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the name Frank?
Mr. KIMPLE. That sounds familiar.
Mr. TAVENNER. At any rate, the description that you have given of that individual is definite enough that the committee can certainly ascertain who the person was that you have identified.
Mr. DOYLE. You just said that Miss Helgren was known to you to be a Communist. On what do you base that statement ?
Mr. KIMPLE. She was in the unit of the Communist Party to which I was the organizer, sir. She was a Communist Party member who had been entrusted with many Communist Party assignments. She had been in the Soviet Union and had been the secretary to Molotov or Litvinof. Litvinof, I believe, and she was on the Ford Peace Ship which went over to Sweden at the end of the First World War and there she met a young man by the name of George Helgren, she married him, and the two of them were in the Soviet Union and while they were in the Soviet Union they had their clothes stolen and didn't have shoes to wear for a while, and then the Communist Party sent them to Germany and they were working in Germany. One of them, I believe it was George Helgren, was in an office where United States mail pouches were being received with diplomatic mail and her confessions to me were that they used those mail pouches for furthering Communist Party messages and intercepting Communist Party mesthe Fox sages, and they came to this country and he was employed by Motion Picture Studios in the credit union and there he distributed Comconsiderable Communist Party literature at the bidding of the munist Party although at that time he himself was not a Communist Party member, but she was.
Mr. DOYLn. That is a pretty picture. I mean without the shoes. several
Mr. JACKSON. This is perhaps not apropos, but there were Members of Congress who lost their trousers traveling through Spain. additional It is nice to know Communists and Fascists have something in common. Neither is above stealing your pants.
Mr. TAVENNER. I should advise you, Mr. Chairman, an investigaof the occurrence tion by the staff has shown that this man at the time a cutter. than related, this man Davis, was a producer rather
Mr. Doyle. Do you want a recess?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. it is appropriate
Mr. DorYL. Before the committee recesses, I think police officer, for 20 for me to say at this time, that this Los Angeles has named several years in the field of intelligence before he retired, He certainly has individuals and has undertaken to identify them. want to say for the I named them and given an identification record. rule, and press and for you folks present that we have a standing who have invitation,and I am giving it now, that if any of these people wants to come been named during this hearing as a Communist them, or any forward under oath, like the witness that has identified 1758 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA witness who has identified them, they are welcome to come to this committee and say whatever they may want to say. That is our standing procedure and I am making it clear now.
Mr. JACKSON. You mean in denial or affirmation and to to say whatever they want to say propagandawise.
Mr. DOYLE. I stand corrected. Either in denial or affirmation or explanation. That is our standing procedure and I am making it clear now so that if any person named before this committee either today, yesterday, or the day before or tomorrow is named, they are invited to come promptly and put themselves under oath like the witness who named them and deny or affirm or explain, but not make a speech. We believe that is fair. We will stand in recess for 5 minutes. (Brief recess.)
Mr. DOYLE. Are you ready, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kimple, I feel certain that you have made it perfectly plain in your testimony that the individual identified by you as Frank Davis and the one who made the contribution of the Ford car and substantial sums of money to the Communist Party was not the same person as the witness who appeared here yesterday by the name of Dr. Frank Cornelius Davis.
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I just wanted to be certain there could be no misunderstanding.
Mr. KIMPLE. They are not the same, no, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOLE. Mr. Moulder?
Mr. MOULDER. No, sir.
Mr. DoYLE. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. I have no questions. May I make a brief statement?
Mr. DOLE. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. I should like to express my thanks to the witness. It is by virtue of informed testimony such as his that it has been possible to piece together across the years the nature and the extent and the objectives of the Communist Party in the United States. Of course, as anyone who serves on this committee is automatically a heel in the eyes of the comrades, your future status will unquestionably be that of a stool pigeon.
Mr. KIMPLE. I have been so labeled many times.
Mr. JACKSON. However, I feel that that will reflect a very small vocal minority viewpoint and that by and large the people of the city of Los Angeles, Calif., in general, and of the Nation, owe to you and other people who have been willing to take on assignments of this kind in the line of official duty, separating yourself in large part, as I know you must have, from family associations, social, things you would much have preferred to do, a debt of gratitude. As one member of the committee-and I am sure that I express the sentiments of all of us, and of all our colleagues in the House of Representatives-I should like to express my appreciation for your testimony today.
Mr. KIMPLE. Thank you, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. I certainly would like to endorse everything Mr. Jackson has said.
Mr. KIMPLE. Thank you. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1759 
Mr. DOYLE. I join in that, too. I do wish to refer back to Kimple Exhibit No. 1 and ask Mr. Kimple one question about it. That, Mr. Kimple, was the Exhibit 1, entitled "Discussion Outline: Work in the Armed Forces," and I will only refer to subdivision (e) thereof, this typewritten outline which you identified as a discussion course used in Los Angeles when you were a phony member of the Communist Party, as an intelligence officer for the Los Angeles Police Department for 11 years. Let me read you just a section of this to remind you, and then I want to ask you a question: (e) Potential revolutionary role of Armed Forces.-(1) armed uprising of workers must have support of armed forces; (2) workers must win support of soldiers and National Guard for all strikes and demonstrations. (Example: Petrograd garrison of 110,000 men revolted and joined workers demonstrations on first day of February Revolution 1917, Potemkin, revolt of sailors in Revolution of 1905.) Now that, together with other documents that you have produced as original records of the Communist Party in Los Angeles in those years, refers to armed revolution, armed uprising against constituted authorities and the winning of armed support for the Communist program by trying to win over the American military, isn't that true?
Mr. KIMPLE. That's true; yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Was this the year 1934?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. That is quite a few years back.
Mr. KIMPLE. May I make a supplement there, sir, that we were told as early as 1928, to my knowledge. that this was the aims and purposes of the Communist Party and the necessary procedure for a successful revolution. So it had been going on for at least 6 years prior to that document.
Mr. DOYE. All right. You left the Communist Party in what year?
Mr. KIMPLE. 1939.
Mr. DOYLE. In Los Angeles?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DoLE. At any time prior to 1939 when you left the Communist Party, as a Los Angeles Police Department intelligence officer, were you ever told by any Communist functionary superior to you that this line of armed force revolution was changed and was no longer the policy of the Communist Party
Mr. KIMPLE. No, sir. I was never told and I never saw in print that that policy was changed. It was always advocated as a necessary step toa successful revolution.
Mr. DoYLE. Thank you.
Mr. JACKSON. May I ask one last question ? 
Mr. DOYLE. Go ahead, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. I had not conferred with counsel on the extent of your testimony, Mr. Kimple. I assumed that because of time limitations we have not gone into all of the matters which are within the purview of the committee at this open hearing. I believe you have given the committee the names of 10 or 12 persons known to you to have been members of the Communist Party. Are you in a position to give the committee additional names? 1760 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. KIMPLE. I am in the position, sir, to positively identify the Communist Party membership of close to a thousand people.
Mr. JACKsON. A thousand people?
Mr. KIMPLE. In Los Angeles, yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Is the committee in possession of that information
Mr. KIMPLE. They are.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you very much.
Mr. DOYLE. One more question. In view of my question to you, Mr. Kimple, I just want to make a brief observation here. I think it was after you left the party, because I believe it was about 1945 that Mr. Earl Browder was ejected from leadership in the Communist Party in this country, one reason among others according to the record, because he preached and advocated and wrote that it was possible for the Soviet Communist theory and the capitalistic system theory of the United States of America to get along in the same world. That was April 1944 or 1945. Then Mr. William Foster was put in. I have come to feel that very likely a good many American citizens got into the Communist Party when we were allies of Russia and prior to the time of the Dudos letter, which came to this country, April 1945. My colleagues have heard me say often that I make allowance in my own thinking of a year or 2 or 3 sometimes for thinking Americans to see daylight and to have gotten out of the Communist Party after 1 or 2 or 3 years from April 1945, if they needed that long, if they were nonreaders or not with a source of information; but for the life of me, I cannot understand how any patriotic American citizen after the Duclos letter and after about April 1946, 1947, could have stayed in the Communist Party, because the lines were drawn in April 1945 very clearly. They stayed in the Communist Party with their eyes open for some reason if they did stay.
Mr. JACKsoN. Will the chairman yield ? I think another very definitive line was drawn last year in the Congress of the United States when the Communist Party was outlawed. It is no longer now a matter of simply belonging to some cloak and dagger outfit where you can go around with a different name and meet your cohorts in an alley or back room. It is now membership in a proscribed organization under the laws of the United States of America. That even more I think, Mr. Chairman, than the Duclos letter, even more than any of the other milestones or the war in Korea is the significant thing which should impress itself upon any law-abiding citizen of this country.
Mr. DOYLE. But Mr. Jackson, as long as we are speaking a minute for the record and by way of informing our colleagues at Washington what has occurred here, certainly it is clear in my book that there may have been many hundreds of American citizens-I want to repeat it-who went into the Communist Party in the interest of world friendship and such other factors and as a matter of philosophical research; and how in God's name any adult desiring to be a patriotic American could have stayed in the party after the date I have indicated, I do not understand. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1761 Furthermore, I do not now understand how any patriotic American who desires to help his country more than to protect those who are still in the Communist Party or were conspirators, and who went into the party under misguidance or misinformation or mistake, can come and plead the first and fifth amendments. I just have not seen it, and I do not understand it now, how they can claim those amendments if they went into the party, as I have stated, prior to April 1944 and 1945 and did not get out. Let us proceed. Are you through with Mr. Kimple for this time?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I think it would be well to continue this witness under his subpena, and I so recommend.
Mr. DOYLE. I will direct, Mr. Kimple, that you are under the subpena. That's rather powerful and will give you all the protection you need, I think, if you need any, so that you won't be interfered with. You will continue definitely and clearly under the subpena of this committee of the Congress of the United States until further ordered.
Mr. KIMPLE. Thank you.
Mr. DoYLE. I have joined already with my colleagues in expressing appreciation.
Mr. KIMPLE. I thank you all. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to call Mr. Max Benjamin Natapoff.
Mr. DOYLE. Will you be sworn? Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. NATAPOFF. I do. TESTIMONY OF MAX BENJAMIN NATAPOFF, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, ROBERT KENNY  