Mr. ALLANS). William L. Alland, A-I-1-a-n-d.
Mr. 'I'AVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel, Mr. Alland I
Mr. ALAND. No sir.
Mr. 'I'ATNNFR. it is the practice of the committee to inform every wilem that ho has the right to counel-, and we give him an olportunity to have counsel present, with him if he desires.
Mr. AI.IJ.ANi. I don't feel I need voiinsel, siico I wish to speak freely and of my own conscience, so to speak.
Mr. 'I'AVENNP.1I. When and where were you born, Mr. Alland?
Mr. AL,AND. Dolinar, I)el.; March 4, 1916. Mir. 'i'AVSNNER. Where do you now rosidel
Mr. ALLAND. I reside in Canoga Park, Cilif. Mir. TAv.NNrR. How long have you resided in Californial
Mr. AL.LND. Since the end of 1939.
Mr. 'l'AVENNEI¢. Where did you reside prior to that time? Mir. AIJAND. Prior to that time I lived in New York. Before that in Blotinore, Md., where I was brought ns a young child fromt Delaware.
Mr. 'lWhensNn. Wheu did you leave Baltimore to take up your residence in Now York I I can't remember the into. I was, I think, 18 years
Mr. AUJI .N. old.
Mr. TAvr Nrit. And you lived continuously in New York intil yoe caneto Califoriin
Mr. ALLAND. Yes, sir. I went there to go on the stage; or try.
Mr. TAV:NNVR. WhIlt is ollr occupat ion?
Mr. A.AND. I have b2een for the last 3 years a motion-picture producer.
Mr. 'rAvPNNF.R. Will yon tell the committee at this point, please, what yoreducatinaml training has ieen?
Mr. Ar.rin. Well, I went partially through high school. I also, while in Now York, took various courses in the history of the American theater; courses in stage design, courses in acting, and all the various courses that oee should take if one is interested in the theater, in a full career in the theater.
Mr. T'AV.NNVR. You stated that for the past 8 years you have been a producer I
Mr. A,ANm. Yes.
Mr. 'TAVENN i. Moving-picture producer
Mr. ALANDn. Yes, sir.
Mr. TA%'FNNR. Will you tell the committee, please, just what your record of employment has been up to and including that period of time?
Mr. A,,AND. Well, in New York, after going to dramatic school and acting in sumnmer theater I joined the Mercury Theater, which is an acting group in Now York, professional group. I was employed as an actor and stage manager. This group also did radio shows, and I acted and helped produce those radio shows.
Mr. TA F NNPR. Will you describe those radio shows more fully I 3,,47-54---p,, 8-3 510 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOB ANGELES MFA 
Mr. AiLND. They were our entertainment& One of the most familiar ones was the "War of the Worlds" broadcast the frightening one. You probably remember that. Then this organization came to California. The head of it was Orson Welles. And we got a contract at RKO to make pictures. And I was taken along on a salary. We spent some time at RKO learning how to make movies, and this period resulted in our making the picture called Citizen Kane. After Citizen Kane we went back to New York to put on a play called Native Son. After Mr. Welles left first and went back and got it organized, when he got to the final staging, I was sent for and I was one of the stae managers of that production. We returned-I am not giving dates. Is that all rightI
Mr. TAvENxNR. I would like for you to give them approximately, if you can. Mir. AULAND. Well, Citizen Kane was in 1940. The trip to New York for Native Son was the winter of 1940-41. I returned to California in the spring of 1911. Now, these are approximate dates.
Mr. JAcKsom. To the best of your recollection.
Mr. Au N. N Yes. I might be quite off. I am very bad at dates. I am sorry. I returned to California in the spring of 1941, and I left the Mercury Theater shortly thereafter. I lelt after a disagreement with
Mr. Welles regarding salary. I thenl did odd jobs around the motion-picture business, little bits here, and collected unemployment insurance. I just sort of got by with odd jobs in the industry, until Pearl harbor. A few weeks after Pearl Harbor I went to New York and went to work for the Office of War Information. We did radio propaganda broadcasts to all the foreign countries, and I helped produce them, stage them. I didn't write them. I merely-I had nothing to do with them except to-most of these people were foreigners, didn't understand microphones, and I staged the shows, helped them ptit them on. I also developed my own program, which was athistory of jazz program which was beamed to our troops all over the world; which I am quite proud of. So this was in the year after Pearl Harbor. I worked for the Office of War Information for 6 or 7 months or so, and in August of that year I enlisted. I resigned to enlist in the Air Corps, and I became an aviation cadet and I was sent to Texas and spent a year training as a pilot. Then I was a combat pilot in the Pacific theater, and I was mustered out in August of 1945. I got back to California, and fi ly. tat the end of 1945 1 developed an idea for a radio program called'Doorway to Life, which was a dramatization of problems in child psychology. The attempt there was to help parents to understand how~to handle their children so as to prevent them from becoming neurotic and delinquent; which is relatively a new science. I didn't know anything about it when I got back but I met some neighbors who had a little child and it seemed to me t t t e a his hild improperly; never knew the differnc between right and wrong, and I read a couple of books by Gesell of Yale, and it opened up quite a thing, opened up my own COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA 3513 eyes to my own childhood, and I began to realize what my own problems were, and this interested me. And eventually we got to a psychoanalyst, child experts, and got them to cooperate, give us case histories which we dramatized and put on the air, and sold this show to Columbia Broadcasting System, and it was on the air for little over a year. Then the program went off the air. I had hopes that I could sell a few of these for motion-pictures films, and there was a delay. I think we did not have the right to sell these programs for films until 6 months after they were off the air, and so for a 6-month period I didn't do very much, just getting by--couldn't sell them. In March of 1946 I opened a model airplane store, hobby shop. Strange thing, I had always been interested in model airplanes and I built these radio-controlled jobs and, and actually was kind of psychological. I didn't seem to be able to find my way, and I retreated to childhood, playing with toys, what you might say it was. We submitted the show at the beginning of 1940 to CBS,and it took months to decide whether they wanted it or not. During this perio(l I opened up this model airplane shop, within the period from March through to around September 1946. At that time CBS said "We will buy the show and -o to work" which I closed the mode anyway, and we started by toen, barupt practicallyAnd shop, program. then were on, as I said, the program writing airidlane this continued through the end of 1947, somewhere in there. Then again a bleak period, waiting for the 0 monthis-t4hat is, when the 6 months were up we didn't sell the show to films as we had hoped to do. But I did manage to play the records of a couple of them for a producer at Universal, and lie was very impressed with them and said that while lie didn't feel it was the kind of thing suitable for his type of operation, lie did like the shows and he did like my work, and lie said, "How would you like to come to work for me as an assistant working with writers?' I accepted, but the job didn't materialize until March of 1950, I believe. And I worked as an assistant and began to bring in story ideas that they liked, and eventually was made a full producer. I think that's the story of my employment.
Mr. JACKSON. That date was when Mr Alland I
Mr. AU.AND. The date I became a full producer f
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. 
Mr. AIAND. About 3 years ago, November 1950 I would say. I was actually associate producer with Leonard Goldstein, really producing, but didn't get the credit, I would say, a full producer getting credit myself until 22 years, something like that, ago.
Mr. TAvENNF.. What are some of the principal pictures you have w received credits for as a producer
Mr. ALLAND. Well what you call the Lawless Breed, a western, based on the life of John Wesey Hardin. Also, a horror picture calledthe Black Castlei The Raiders, which is a western. Stand at Apache River, which is a western, and It Came From Outer Space, science fiction that was finally produced, the first 3-D picture at the studio. And I have just completed two others. One is sort of a horror picture, Black Lagoon. This is about a hypothetical monster in human form but with quills, who lives under the sea. 3514 COMMUMST ACrvIzS im T LOS ANGELES AREA And I have just completed another one called Johnny Dark, which is the story of road racing, which I think is going to be very good. y the way, it has a race in it from Canada to Mexico, across the whole breadth and width of the United States, on wide screen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Alland, information has come to the attention of the committee indicating that you are in a position to give the committee information reiarding activities of the Communist Party. My first question then is to ask you what opportunities you have had to observe Communist Party activities in New York and in Hollywood.
Mr. AuAxN. Well, in the New York phase of my life there may have been opportunities, but I was completely unaware, really, of politics. I was very much interested in the theater, and I really can tell you nothing about Communist activity in New York, because I was a youngster and very much in love with the theater. And I am very happy that I didn't know anything about it at that time. In California is where my first contacts with this organization began; during the making of Citizen Kane.
Mr. TAV NNER. That would have been about 1041 or 19421
Mr. ALLAND. 1940. Through the fact that I became engaged and married someone at that time who had been active in the Communist Party earlier, and I got my first sort of inkling about it. But I didn't personally engage in any activity of the Communist Party until after the war.
Mr. TAvFNNICR. Well, would you tell the committee what you observed of the activity of the Communist Party prior to the war and during the period that you were shooting the picture Citizen Kane?
Mr. ALtAwD. Well, during that period, as I said, my first wife, whom I met, took me around and introduced me to some people. I recall one person that she introduced me to at that time was (-).
Mr. TAvXNNzR. Let me ask you, did you join the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. AuAND. No, sir. T mentioned this man's name. I do not mean necessarily to identify him as a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. JAcKso . I wish, in the mentioning of any names, you would be very careful unless you very definitely can identify them as membervof the Communist Party, to our own knowledge. And your stiplation onMr.--will be note. rAL n. All right. The only thing of significance during that period was that I was taken to a school where courses, various course in Communist philosophy, Marxism, were being taught, wide open, downtown on the second floor of the building. I can't at the moment recall the address of the street. It is the same street that Angel's Flight is on, I believe and then the whole second floor of this building there were courses being taught. I attended a couple of these.
Mr. Doiu. A couple of the courses?
Mr. AL,w. Yes. These were being taught. I attended one course being t,,ught by a woman named Eva Shafron. 8Tb. person saved by thewitness was not satisfaetori Identifed as having bees a member 49 the Corrnuakt Party, and for that resom th. namewas deleted b -the con Mitte, COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3515 
Mr. JACKSON. Spell the name.
Mr. ALLNn. This was justMr. Winrt .R. S-h-a-f-r-o-n.
Mr. AL.AND. But I say this is just a short time before Pearl Harbor and wasn't pursuedlbeyont that point. Then, s I told vo, I went to New York and went to work, and subsequently enlisted in the Air Corps and went to Texas and then overseas. And then I returned to California. Now, with the exception of a couple of lectures that I attended at the so-called school, I engaged in no Communist activity, per se.
Mr. JACKSON. Were these individual lectures, or were they lecture courses?
Mr. AULAND. Lecture courses, classroom, large group of people attending.
Mr. JACKSON. You attended the entire courses or lectures in the course?
Mr. ALLAND. Lectures in the course. I forget. how many weeks the session was stipposed to continue, but; I only attended a couple of them, 2 or 3. I am trying to remember the name-it was absolutely elenientary courses. I recall the blackboard, the old illustration that the man who makes 50 pairs of shoes in a factory, he doesn't get back all the 50, he only gets back part of what he makes, and therefore he is being cheated.
Mr. TAVrFNNF.R. Do you know whether the name of the school was the Los A ngeles Labor School I
Mr.AxxAND. It could very well be, sir. I can't say for sure.
Mr. 'rAV1FNNFR. Was it through Communist Party associations that you attended that school ?
Mr. AmANn. Well, it was through riy first wife that I attended. She took some courses and invited me to take some and I readily took them; although, as I said, I found it difficult to stick at it ha and fast. Only attended a few of them.
Mr. TAVF.N NKU. When did you become a member of the Communist Party, if at all?
Mr. ALAxND. I became a member of the Communist Party-let's see, the exact date-I have been going through, trying to construct this in my mind. To the best of my recollection, in February or March of 19461 was included into a neighborhood branch.
Mr. TAvrN.r How were you employed at that timo
Mr. ArjAmn. At that time we were just opening this hobby shop. We submitted this radio show to CBS for their consideration, and while waiting I had opened this hobby shop.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you became a member of this Communist Party in 1946, were you assigned to a group or cell of the party I
Mr. ALtre. Yes.
Mr. TAVFXNER. By what name was the cell known I
Mr. AUAND. The Echo Park branch, which, however, was divided into smaller units of the rThho Park branch. I was in-I forget it. It was ven another name. Each of the various units of the Echo Park branch were given another name, and I was in one of the units of the Echo Park branch.
Mr. TAvENNF.FJ. What was the membership of the various units of he branch, and of the branch ? 3516 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. A.LAND. I would say the membership varied from 15 to 45 people. The entire branch could have been a very large number of people,as much as maybe 200 or 300, 1 imagine.
Mr. TAvwNNER. Did you ever hold a position in your group or cell of the party I
Mr. ALLANn. No official position, beyond the fact that I was asked1 to pick up literature at the bookstore and bring it to the meeting. We were all given assiginents, so to speak, to discuss particular i sues at the next meeting, read the paper or read such ndsuch an article in one of the Communist magazines and discuss it. and this kind of thing. But I never, to my recollection, held a further position than that.
Mr. TAVF.NNFR. Who were the leaders among the group?
Mr. ALIAND. In this neighborhood branch I have great difficulty in recalling the names. I am hoping, through some help, to get this down. But Virginia Mullen was chairman of this group for a time.
Mr. TAVENNFR. Mr. Chairman, this individual appeared as a witness before the committee and refused to answer material questions in reliance upon the fifth amendment. She was an actress.
Mr. AL AND. She was more than that. I think you should know that. You see, when I started the idea for this child-psychology program I developed it to a certain point myself. At this point my first wife, who I was living with at that time, said, "I know someone," and also at this point I was not in the party yet-but this I don't want to be mistaken. I knew the people. They were in and out. It was very friendly. She told me that she knew someone who had studied some child psychology, worked with children, been a nursery. schoolteacher and had some children of her own, and that she might be helpful. And I said fine, and she introduced me to Virginia Mullen. She supplied me with some technical information, certain source material that I needed, and having children of her own, which I didn't have it was very helpful in trying to dramatize these particular eases o# children, the habits of children, having a practice experience, and then you could apply the problem, and she was very helpful. And while I wrote the show, I did at the same time give her cocredit with me, and this Doorway to Life series was presented on the air, and presented as the writers were William Alland and Virginia Mullen. And it was a while after I started working with her on this show that I eventually went into her neighborhood branch.
Mr. TAVWNNzEr. Did she play any part in your-becoming a member of the Communist Party I
Mr. ALLAND. She certainly did. Although, as I said, you have to be willing, you know. It is very nice to say-and I think this is the important thing, been very difficult for me to face--I always have been tempted to say these people did it to me. They do. JutI think Americans must not be vulnerable. If you are vulnerable it is because ou haven't been thinking clearly or fully appreciating what your life nere is.
Mr. JACBSON. Did Miss Mullen suggest to you in so many words at the time extend an invitation to you, or offer the suggestion that you should be in the Communist Party?
Mr. ALjLAD. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. I judge that this was not only in one instance!
Mr. Au. ND. Oh, yes. COMMUNI T ACTIVITIES IN TIE LO ANGELER AREA 3517 
Mr. TAvFNNFR. duringg the pro-re.ss of your work with her did she at any time indicate to you the advisabilit y of coloring your production with any Communist Party prolagandt I
Mr. ALLrAN. Oh, yes. And let me say that I would have at that time, I think been amlenable to doing so myself. It so happened that it was a kind of show which is like medical--I don't know how you can take medicine anl inject propaganda into it. That is in terms of a diagnosis. 'I'hese ease hIstories were given to u.s by bona fide doctors and)sychoanalysts here, and the Psychoanalytical Society, which is the top and respected organization here, when the script was finished, it had to be submitted to them for their approval, because when these went on the air, coast to coast, it was CJS who insisted on this that it was with the full backing and approval of an important and bona ide medical organization, you see. So there wasn't the opportunity. But I would say, had there been, I certainly th.nk I would have bied.
Mr. TAVF.NNFR. Will you give us the names of other persons who were active in the work of your Communist Party group?
Mr. ArJ.AND. In the neighborhood branch, which is the first group that I was in, there was Ruth Myerson, who was my first wife; Virginia Mullen, and there was a man, r-s Bryant, and his wife.
Mr. ,JACK ON. )o you know what her name was, her first name?
Mr. ALLAND. I don't recall, sir. Then a woman named Anita, her last name is Hay.
Mr. ,JAcKSON. If possible, will you give the occupation orMr. AIJ.AND. Les Bryant was at that time a soap manufacturer, small soap manufacturer. He later became a small building contractor. Anita Hay was a housewife, and her husband was a cost controller in some foundry, I believe. I don't recall the particular place. As I said, the members of the branch at the moment are very hazy to tie, and I hope to, with Mr. Wheeler's help, go through this again. I do recall persons coming to this branch to give lectures and so on, and one was a man by the name of Paul Perlin.
Mr. TAVENNFR. Perlin was a witness before the committee and refused to answer pertinent questions, relying upon the fifth amendment. He was one of the back-lot workers in the motion-picture indtstrv.
Mr. ALLANt. This man, by the way, had been introduced to me by my wife before the war.
Mr. Doiusr. How many times did lie come, approximately?
Mr. ALLm. Before the war, sir?
Mr. Doyr,. Before your group-Perlin.
Mr. A,TAim. I would say several times.
Mr. DoYmr,. Five or sixI
Mr. ATT.AwNn. I would say that, yes, sir.
Mr. TAITNNF11. What was the nature of the appearance before your group?1
Mr. ALL. D.Well. he evidently occupied an important position in the party, because he would come and conduct a series of lectures on party lines, and he mainly kept the group straight on how to think.
Mr. DomuE. How many would attend these group meetings? 0518 coim SmuACTrVrms iN TH LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. AuLAiw. This branch, as I say, consisted, I would say, of about 20 to 25 people. But the attendance would vary from 10, 15, or 20 sometimes. These were weekly meetings held at private homes.
Mr. TAvNNE. Well you were giving us the names of persons who had appeared in the role of lecturers before your group.
Mr. -AuAi That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you continue, please
Mr. ALLAND. Mr. Perlin is the person that appeared as a lecturer. I don't recall others at the moment. Now, this is the most that I can recollect at the moment about this neighborhood branch.
Mr. TAvwzm. How long were you a member of the neighborhood branch?
Mr. ALT Am. For several months, from-well, as a matter of fact, from March of 1946 or the date that I was recruited, until the beginning of 1947. by this time the radio program was on the air Doorway to Life, and doing well. And at this time I was ordered to transfer to a radio group
Mr. TAVE2NNR. How didyou receive that direction?
Mr. ALLAN;D. I was told.
Mr. TAVENNR. By whom and under whatcircumstancesI
Mr. A AND. I think I was visited at home by Alvin Hammer, who, by the way, I had never attended any meetings with, but who visited me, speaking in the name of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVNNER. Do you know whether he was a functionary in the Communist Part I
Mr. ALLAND. assumed that he was, because, as I said, he came and told me that I should transfer to a radio branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to state for the record that Alvin Hammer was subpenaed to Washington to appear before the committee and refused to answer any question relating to his Communist Party, alleged Communist Party activities, relying upon the fifth amendment.
Mr. A AND. I would like to-I didn't read or hear the testimony in Washington, but I understand that Mr. Hammer was asked if he knew a Ruth Alland. I don't know if you recall thisMr. Doyz. Had he met her?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. She had lived with the Hammers while I was overseas and I had met them when I first came home, and we rented rigt across the street from them. r. TAVZNiNE. Was any reason assigned by Mr. Hammer as to why you should transfer to the radio group?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. He felt that I could work for the party more efficiently in the radio group and I could gain some understanding, perhaps of the radio writer in relation to the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNE.. Would you describe what he indicated your role should be?
Mr. AmAw. Well, he didn't go any further; in a sense, he didn't have to. I understood what he meant, you might say. However, I got briefed much more thoroughly, of course, after I transferred into the radio group, when I was given my education, so to speak.
Mr.TAvawxu. Would you expand on that, please, at this time, and tell the committeejust what your experiences were in the radio group of the Communist Party I COMM'CNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3519 31r. ALL,'D. Well, you must understand in terms of the kind of show I was doing, the Communist Party wishes to pin all failings of people, any kindof trouble a person might have, on capitalism, you see. If you break a leg, they figure that you should, by applying Marxist philosophy, you can blame capitalism of the Unite States because you broke your leg, because if the sidewalk wasn't mended properly this means that somebody was greedy for money, or something or other, and the whole tenor of the whole thing was to so control your thinking that you could at any time come to the conclusion that, directly or indirectly, the United States, the United States (overnment, and capitalism were responsible for all your troubles and all your problems. In this regard, the whole concept of psychology, the whole concept was that of a delinquent child could be delinquent because he wasn't brought up properly by his parents. That was wrong, frowned upon, that it had to be something wrong with the country for him to be a delinquent, you see. They therefore resisted very much this whole psychological approach. And, frankly, I don't understand why they didn't interfere with my show.
Mr. DoyrE. Who interfere?
Mr. ALLAND. I say I don't understand why they didn't.
Mr. DoYm. Who didn't?
Mr. ALri,?;N. The party, the leadership. I was always expecting them to crack down, but they for some reason never did. In any case, I can only conclude that they would have felt they would have trouble because niy material was completely documented,you know, all medical records, alnd they would have had a heck of a time, I believe.
Mr. DoYL.. How would they have cracked down on your show What could they have done with your show? You were the boss of it. You were the author of it. How could the Communists have done anything to your show? You were under a contract.
Mr. AIJTAn. By this, I mean that they could have ordered me to change it.
Mr. DoYLE. Well, you wouldn't have obeyed their orders. You were under contract. 
Mr. AIAND. I certainly wouldn't have. 
Mr. Doyu. What?
Mr. ALLAND. I certainly would not have obeyed them. But what I was saving, I often wondered why they didn't and, as I say, it is very possible that they realized that they, legally, they couldn't control me, and left well enough alone.
Mr. DOYLE. Were you in the party then I
Mr. ALLAND. Yes.
Mr. DoYLz. How much later on could they have bossed you and controlled you ?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, not-- certainly not during the-you see, the show, the form of the show was prepared and developed and submitted to CBS before I joined the party. While I was in the party is when CBS bought the show, and we were bound to a particular format, and nothing could be done.
Mr. Dons. Then there came a time in your party experience when the party could have controlled you in the show, didn't there?
Mr. ALLwre. No, sir. 81747-84--pt 8-4 362 S IN TEN O0=UNST ACTWMIV DN ANOGLU AEA 
Mr. Dom. Not on this show, but on a show I
Mr. AuAwN. Oh, after this show was over they could have. But time I went to work in the film industry I was already out of 20 thearty.
Mr.Donax I see. And the only reason you wouldn't have taken orders from the Communist Party in this show is because the format and all was agreed to with CBSI 
Mr. AmAxD. That is correct. 
Mr. Doym. You were under contract?
Mr. Amax. That is correct.
Mr. DomE. If you hadn't been under contract, you would have been glad to change the format if the party had told you so I
Mr. Azra.fi I supose so, yes, sir.
Mr. TAvINwEa. Do you know of any instances in which a script, either in radio or in the movies, was altered at the insistence of a member of the Communist Party, acting as a representative of the Communist Part
Mr. Au.ja Only by hearsay. I personally never had any direct personal knowledge of such. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the incident to which you refer? 
Mr. ALLAND. Well, it isn't a question of the incident. It is a question of constant discussion of the material on which writers were working. In this regard, I would say that the Communist writer working for films was always under the scrutiny of the party, and he was expected to check with his superiors as to what he was doing, make sure that he wasn't making any mistakes.
Mr. TAVENwNR. Are you speaking of superiors in the industry or superiors in the Communist Party?
Mr. ALLAND. Superiors in the Communist Party, and particularly the educational experts, so to speak. While I can't at the moment recall any specific story, I do know that the writer was under surveillance by the party as to his work, nnd nothing that could be construed as an antipropaganda would be tolerated, nothing that could be considered anti-Russian would be tolerated. To glorify, or not even to glorify, to attempt to show in a good light an American tycoon, for instance--by "tycoon" I mean a big-business man, big corporation-to show him ats being a gentleman or a kind mali, a liberal man, would have been considered taboo. Me.Dom . You mean that screenwriters who were members of the Communist Party, such as you, would take their script away from their place of emplo ment and submit it to Communist educational functionaries, and so forth How would they check it?
Mr. ALLAND. Let me say this, if they had been given an assignment of, let us say, a horror picture or western, in which there was no opportunity for--or where the studio did not require that the writer comment, in a sense-by "comment" I mean when you show a man a scene, acting in a particular way toward his employees, his family, other people-this is in a sense portraying the character of am1an. Now, say, if it was the kind of a script where these possibilities didn't exist, then there wasn't any discussion. But if, let us say, the script dealt with, in an way, with issues, attitudes, ideas that could be made to seem to be detrimental to the party, the writer COMMUNIST ACTMVTES IN TE LOS ANGELES AREA 3521 would certainly try to change them. And if he had trouble he would get help or try toget help.
Mr. DoML. Change them. But what I mean, Mr. Alland, would these Communist writers go to the point of taking their scripts away from the employer'a premises? 
Mr. ALLAND. Absolutely. 
Mr. DoYLE. And take them to dignitaries of the Communist Party and submit themI
Mr. AmLLAND. Absolutely. There is no rule against taking a script home. I take scripts home to work on many times.
Mr. DoiaE. There may not be any rule to taking them home, but when you Communist writers would take them away from your employer's premises to take them home, would you also take them and submit them to your Communist bosses? 
Mr. ALLAND. I am sure they do. 
Mr. DomE. Well, did you I
Mr. AMIA D. No, because, you see, I was not a member at the time I went to work in the film industry.
Mr. DoLLn. Why are you sure they would ?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, because I know of instances, although I cannot recall the specific material-you know, I would often hear Communist writers discussing the fact that he has a problem at the studio, they want him to say something which he feels would be detrimental to the party, or certain ideas they have; and having trouble with the producer trying to switch it, and what the heck can he do, and discussing it back and forth, on how to handle it.
Mr. JAcKson. Would this be discussed at a meeting, or would this be in the nature of a private discussion which you happened to be a party to orMr. ALLAND. Both. It could be the subject for informal discussion at a meeting or could be gone further into in a private discussion with a so-called expert.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you remember, if not specifically, generally, any such discussion of a script at the Communist Party meeting on the problems such as you have described I
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. But. as I say, I cannot recall the specific time and place. But I definitely recall such discussions. M. JACScON. Do you recall how they were resolved or what action was taken on them?
Mr. ALLAND. They were resolved in the writer figuring out a way of not saying what had been indicated in the script should be said. As you know, you start out with a story and from there you develop it into a screenplay. The producer buys a story or has it written, or thinks it up himself, andMr. JACKsoN. And dialogue is put on the framework of the plot?
Mr. ALLAND. That is correct. And in this transferral phase, you see, that tampering with can be done, because the stories are usually bought by the producer. They come from magazines They come from novels. Writers submit them. As far as original stories for the screen, I would say the Communist writers, over thc years, have been completely unsuccessful in selling them, because they are pretty obvious what they are the minute you read them. Nobody would buy them. So the place that they can do something is in the screenplay. 8522 COMMUMST ACIV ITI IN THME LOS ANGELES AREA I would say thisN in my observation, that *hat they have been able to do is not so much put Communist propaganda into films, but what they have been able to do is prevent, to a great degree, the expression of anti-Communist sentiment in films. This is the big thing.
Mr. TAwzNNEx. Were you familiar with what was known as a writers' clinic, composed of, exclusively of members of the Communist Party, in which the best Communist Party writers gave aid to others who were faced with the type of problems which you have mentioned?
Mr. ALTAND. I was fami iar with it in the sense that I had heard it discussed at meetings, and by members, that they had either gone to this clinic with a problem, or knew someone who had.
Mr. TAvrmau. Did you ever appear before the writers' clinic?
Mr. ALTAND. No, sir. No sir. As I said, I was in the party during the period of the writing of the radio show, and for most of a year thereafter.
Mr. TAVawxCra. When did you leave the Communist PartyI
Mr. ALL AD. I would like to explain that I drove a taxi for a year before, between the time I lost my radio show and went to work at Universal Studios. See, what happened was that after the radio show went off the air, and during this--well, after the radio show went off the air, shortly after I went to work and started driving a taxicab at nights, and along with that I also went and got some psychotherapy, psychoanalysis for myself, you see. Row, when I started my psychoanalysis, I was told, of course, that I couldn't attend party meetings any more. And I went-I had an analysis for the most part, for about a year. I started this analysis while I was still working, writing the radio show. I started it, really, because I was very disturbed about myself, and the whole relationship with the Communist Party, and what I saw and felt it was doing to me, and I had a deep feeling of guilt all the time; I never felt really that it was a part of me, felt that I was a criminal every moment.
Mr. TAvEYNEE. And it was that which caused you to seek the analysis?
Mr. AiAm. That is right That, plus my conflicting feelings about these people, my first wife and Mullen, who had great influence on m. And out of my analysis I divorced my first wife, and using it partly as an excuse not to go to meetings, you knbw, because of this analysis thing and I helped work out my personal problems within myself as a human being. And, you see, I drove this taxicab at nights, on the night shift. Now, eventually I finished my analysis and I was still driving a taxicab. Then they reached out to try to get me back. And I had a So theyarrang great excuse because T was workig nights,you se to have a couple of meetings a day especially for my benefit, which was January and February 1949. And I attended a couple and I just couldn't take it,just never came back.
Mr. Dn You say es ally for your benefit I
Mr. AwUAN. That is right.
Mr. Doria How many would attend those meetings that they arranged especially for your benefits
Mr. Atm. Oh, 10 to 12, or 4, 5, or 6. '
Mr. Dorm What time of day and when I COMMUNIST ACTIvTIES IN T LOs AsaELS ABeA 3523 
Mr. ALAND. Usually Saturday afternoon, and at some of these radio writers' houses.
Mr. Dorm Did they tell you why they were arranging these meetings especially for your beneit I
Mr. AwND. Because I said I couldn't come because I was working at night. And they said, "Well we'll fix it so you can come at daytime," and so they fixed it. And i went to a couple.
Mr. TAv NNER. I think it would be well at this point to tell the committee who were the members of this radio group, and in doing so, describe their positions and activity in the party as well as you can, and also which of them made the effort to have the meeting set at a time convenient to you, and made an effort to bring you back into the Communist Party.
Mr. ALLAND. Well, the radio branch consisted of Pauline Hopkins, Sam M|oore, Reuben Ship, Mike Davidson Virginia Mullen, Stanley Waxman, Jerry Fielding, Gene Stone, Jack and Mary Robinson, and for a very brief period, first couple-one meeting, actually; very first, or second one, that I attended in the radio branch, Ed Max, who they were having trouble with, because he wasn't coming to meetings and seemed to be losing interest. Also during this early period a woman named Judy Raymond, who subsequently I heard had left and had cooperated with the committeeMr. TAVENNER. Yes. I think I should state for the record that Judith Raymond has testified in executive session. Her testimony as yet has not been made public, but she has fully cooperated with the committee in answering questions.
Mr. ALLAND. A fellow named Hy Kraft, Lynn Whitney- a man by the name of Muni Diamond. Now, some of the people who came to these meetings for various reasons for lectures, checkups and so on, were Paul Jarico and John Howard iawson. These are all the names I recall at the moment, sir.
Mr. TAENNB. What effort was made to have you to return to becoming an active member?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, Paul Jarrico approached me.
Mr. TAvFxNER. Tell the committee about that, please.
Mr. ALLAND. He approached me and sympathized with the fact that I couldn't attend meetings because I was working, and said that he would see to it that arrangements wodd be made whereby I could attend.
Mr. Domu. Who was he at that timeI
Mr. AuANn. Paul Jarrico was a functionary. I don't know what his exact title was, but he was important. Oh, incidentally, I recall there was a man who visited all the Hollywood groups, a tall, thin man, who was sort of the-I forget his title, but he represented the downtown party; always checking about dues. The name I cannot recall at the moment. He was very important. He was the Hollywood section, what would be called organizer.
Mr. TAvw.-zm. John Stapp?
Mr. AwA D).S-t-a-p-p.
Mr. Donz. Was Paul Jarrico from the Los Angeles office I
Mr. AuxAND. No, he was from Hollywood, sir. 3524 COmwUNIST ACTIVITIES iN THi LOS AN GLES AREA 
Mr. Doym. When you said you have to be vulnerable--remember, a few minutes ago
Mr. AuAwD. Yes.
Mr. Domz. You said you have to be vulnerable. What did you mean by that, vulnerable to what How were you vulnerable, for instance I
Mr. ALAND. Well, I was vulnerable in the sense that I was an emotionally very disturbed person. I was a very lonely person. I married the first time purely because I was lonely, and not doing. any more intelligently than that, in a sense, in my particular case. I didn't enter any real conversion but primarily to go along with my wife and my friend and coworker Virginia Mullen, to be accepted, to not be outside, and I unfortunately did not have many friends, which is, you know--once I was in there you never do have any other friends.
Mr. Doymi Once you are in where?
Mr. ALLAND. In the party. You are just like you are walled off from the rest of society so that you really don't know what other people are thinking or feeling or how they behave. And after a certain point you forget people on the outside world, so to speak, and behave differently, and you begin to sort of think or fail to think in the same way. You think the same way these people do, and eventually you begin to take their standards of morality or immorality for your own, without realizing it. You begin to feel it, to misrepresent, under circumstances, is a virtue rather than an evil.
Mr. TAvExNNr. You become entirely dependent upon those who have become your new associates f
Mr. ALL ND. That is right. You get to the point where you sort of in a sense stop thinking for yourself and you look for the answers in the books and in the oracles of the party, the wise men of the party. The only thing it does-it did to me eventually-was that I just begin to feel smothered, and then, of course, I could go into the whole question of the things that were said and what was going on in the world, and it just got to the point where I couldn't make excuses; I couldn't find the answers in the books or in the mouthpieces of the party that I could deeply accept as the real cause of what was happening in the world.
Mr. Doriz. Thank you very much.
Mr. Au., u. I am sorry. I don't mean to be eloquent orMr. DomE. That is all right.
Mr. Au.AND. Another example of this, and I think this is the key, once they put this thing into your reasoning it is very hard to put the pieces back together, and that is this: This whole attempt is to prove to you that the Government of the United State" and the people of the United States are two separate things, and they, by an illogical logic, make you feel that your allegiance is to, somehow or other, the people but not the Government andit leads to the following conclusion: That since this Government aoes not represent the people, therefore you don't owe this Government any allegiance. You see?
Mr. DomLi. Why doesn't the American Government represent the American people? What basis do they have for that?
Mr. AuL .r. They have a long and involved theory having to do with the claim that-you see, they have a line, if you memorize and COMMUNIST ACTVIVITIES IN' THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3525 repeat it long enough you accept it which goes something like thisthat the Government is a moans of holding power by the ruling class. See? Therefore, since the people aren't the ruling clasw and the capitalists are the ruling class, the Government is the Government of the ruling class and, therefore, not of all the people. You see? Now, if you can accept this, your next step is to feel, well, you have no particular allegiance to the Government. The chink in this, of course, is the Government is duly elected by all the people and can be changed at any time, in terms of its personnel. As far as its particular structure, the Government of this country has changed, always changing its form. Of course, the basic concepts upon which has been founded this country have never changed and must never change, and they are, when you get out of this morass, in my opinion, the greatest precepts in the world; They are based upon Greek philosophy, Christianity. Talk about opportunities to express yourself, opportunities for the people to have their country whatever they want it is more pa-sible here than any place in the world; and this is the thing that they prevent you from ai-riving at. In my own case, of course, I will say that my elementary education was not a good one, and I feel deeply that part of the solution of this problem is that we must have a stronger educational system, particularly in the elementary schools. Most people don't go much further than high school, you know. By the time they get to high school they are pretty well formed, anyway, and it becomes pure theory, but the children should understand completely the tremendous flexibility and freedom of expression and opportunity that you have under our system of government. And somehow, looking back at my own elementary school education, it was pretty dry. I never did really get to develop a sense of patriotism and pride that I should have, and I feel that the whole emphasis in our elementary school system is not proper.
Mr. Doyi. Well, you were taught to salute the flag and your allegiarice to the flag. What more could you be taught? You were taught the stories about George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, and the founding of the Constitutional Convention, the Declaration of Independence--Mr. AIetND. What I feel is that I was taught that, but didn't observe it, and I feel this should be stressed more in schools, how this Government works, why it is your country, your Government--you know-the machinery whereby everybodyMr. DoYLE. You think that elementary school children would comprehend that?
Mr. ALLAND. I surely do. I sincerely do. It should be devised on a simple basis. I am very much interested in child education myself. It should be demonstrated in actual practice, you know what I mean. They should be educated; educators can devise means of bringing it home clearly, the opportunities for expression of changing of-by "changing"I don't mean of changing your Congressmen-of any idea you have in terms of what you feel a Government should do or not do. The machinery is there constantly for the full expression of the will of the people at all times. And this, I feel, should be brought out dramatically and forcefully.
Mr. DoYL. Manifestly, I didn't ask those questions because I dis. agreed with you, but I wanted to have you explain them. 8526 CONUUL)Nk ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. AjLAND. I see. And therefore, I feel it was because I didn't really understand this as thoroughly as I should have, the functions of how the United States Government, in relation to the people, how it opqrato, really operates. It was very easy to accept somebody saying, "Don't you see it, the government of one particular group of people agsbt the rest of the people," and bang that long enough to accept it. 1et me say this: I wanted to accept it as I explained to you. I was a very emotionally disturbed person. I wanted to belong some place. I wanted somebody to take me in and make me feel at home. I wasborn and raised in a little town, only a few thousand people, and I lived a very lonely childhood. I was a misfit, and as a misfit I was fair game. That isall Ican say. I will say that my analysis was just a tremendous help to me, and I can certainly nndrstand why the Commnist Party resists the idea of its people going to an analysis pretty much. You know, they don't want you to go.
Mr. TAVENNFR1. If I understand your views correctly, you feel it would be a great aid in the fight against communism if in early youth the opportunities for having a very sound and basic course in American history and studyMr.'ALLAD. how our Government works for all the people.
Mr. TAvzNNER. And the lives of great patriotic leaders in our country.
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. Well, now, I would say that these are gen, we get these, but by as much as I admired, and when I studied about them, they didn't really tell me how my Government was my Government, why it was may Government, what my responsibilities to it were, what, its responsibilities to me were, how it represented me every moment of my life, and how, through it, I could express myself freely all the time. I don't feel that this is brought out strong enough in elementary school. I feel that if I did understand I could not have gone for some of this material. And yet, I am not blaming the educational system. I say I was vulnerable because of my emotions and problems and compound this with the fact that I didn't really understand too well how the democratic system works, and I was fair game.
Mr. T10vrzwxr. Now, while a member of the radio group (lid you become acquainted with a person by the name of Mitchell LindemanI
Mr. AUAND. Yes. I went to a meeting at his house once.
Mr. TAvE-NER. A meeting of the Communist PartyI
Mr. ALAND. Yes. He was not in my group, but there was a special meeting called at his house, and I recall it had to do with the fact that the membership was complaining quite a bit that decisions were being made, things were taking place, and no one was asking the membership a darned thing about it, and the meeting was to placate the membership and assure them in the future, before decisions were made, they would perhaps be given an opportunity to discuss them.
Mr. TAvmwiat. Have vou identified as a member of that group a person by the name of Bill WolffI
Mr. AJvLAND. Oh, I didn't put him down. That is what I forgot. Bill Wolff. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3527 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of this group?
Mr. AwANDN. Yes.
Mr. TAVFNNER. Were you acquainted with Angela Clarke?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes; as a friend of Virginia Mullen. I do not recall being in meetings with her. I have to give that some thought.
Mr. TAVNNFit. Now, will you tell the committee, please, what the priilcipal activity was of this group of the Communist Party organized within the radio field?
Mr. ALAND. Its principal activity was attempting to control the Radio Writers Guild.
Mr. TAvyENNFjt. Vill you tell the committee how it endeavored to exercise that control?
Mr. ALTANn. Well, it. tried to influence the membership and the board to take stands against the Un-American Activities Committee.
Mr. I)oyi. You mean against the Un-American Activities Committee?
Mr. AL n. Un-American Activities Committee. That is what I said.
Mr. IJ)yra:. I 1eg your pardon.
Mr. AL,.Am. 'Thv wanted the Radio Writers Guild to try to get the Screen Writers Guild to be more lenient in its actions and attitudes toward the Communist nembers in the Screen Writers Guild. They tried to get its members in any way possible to censure and block the work of the Un-American Activities Committee, certainly, and to in any way possible aid and support those people who had been exposed'by tie committee. Now, the opportunities for them to do this were not always present, but there was the constant job, and the radio writers group was watching for every possible time, any possible opportunity to so influence it. Air. TAviNn. Did it attempt to control the election of the officials of the Radio Writers' Guild?
Mr. AILAND. Oh, certainly. 
Mr. TAIVENNFIR. Can you recall members of your Communist Party group who actually became officials in the Radio Writers' Guild as a result of the activities of your group?
Mr. AvT.A Well, Sami Moore was already an official when I went into the Radio Writers' group. Reuben Ship was an official, and there was one, I think, important election during the time I was in this group, and it was natually discussed who should be nominated, and so forth. And where they'didn't feel that the Communists could get elected, that he wasn't popular enough or whatever it may be, then it would be decided that such and such a person was progressive or liberal and could be handled if he were elected-you know, sympathetic, so to speak, and so an attempt would be made to elect him.
Mr. TAVENNFIR. Were you encouraged by members of the Communist Party to become active in mass organizations which we usually refer to as*Communist-front organizations?
Mr. ALLerr. Yes; we were encouraged, and I must say that I was always lax in this matter, and as I said before, in my own disturbance I never joined any of them. but I was always being urged to do so, and always promising that I would and I never got around to it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What particular mass organizations were the members of your group in the Communist Party urged to join? 3528 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIER I1 THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. AUAND. It seems to me the key one was the Arts, Scienceft, and Professions-is that it? Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions. This was the key one. I think at that time this was the main target.
Mr. TAVZNNEM. lave you engaged in any Communist Party activities, or affiliated in any way with any activities since your withdrawal from the party, as you described I
Mr. ALAND. No, sir. I must say this on the record, that I have seen some members since I have withdrawn, and I must say I even hired Virginia Mullen for a small part imna picture of mine, for 2 rasns-but I was sort of led to believe, I heard that she would, if she were called, be cooperative, and then she had 2 children and she was--how shall I put it.-she appealed to iy sympathy on that ground, that sie needed the work. Ro I gave her a day's work.
Mr. Doyiru. How long ago, approximatelyI
Mr. A j.AN. I would say a year, a year and a half ago.
Mr. Doyi. You said you understood front her that shie was cooperative with the committee?
Mr. AILAND. I understood front her that if site were subpenaed that she would be cooperative.
Mr. Dou. Virginia Mullen f
Mr. Avj.Aim. She didn't. even say this, but by inferences she led me to believe this, although, in nil honety, I have itoity that she appealed to me on the basis of needing a job, and I, having known her and having known she had two kids, I did give her one.
Mr. TAvv;NNER. Mr. Alland, you have made a very full statement as to your activities within the punrty, and your knowledge of what is going on, and the circumstances under which you left the party. Having taken the step to get out of the party, why is it. that you did not at some subsequent date advise this committee or some other (ov. ernment agency of your knowledge of the Commmist Party activitiesI
Mr. ALT 'NDV Well, sir, there were two reasons. I am not sure that they are justifiable. But I was perhaps the most concerned and reltetant to testify as to my relationships with my first wife, and as you can see, this ould-as'I hope you can see-it was very difficult for me, difficult for me in the sense that I have a young son by this first marriage. The second reason is perhaps even less legitimate and has to do with the human ego, because I think it is easier for a person to admit he is a thief than a fool, which I certainly was. I would like to thank this committee for giving me the opportunity to be of service to my country, and I hope the right to continue to be of service to it. Mi. Dorxz. Are you through with that?
Mr. AiLAxD. I would also say, this question has been asked by this committee many tines, and I have fought for my country as a combat pilot in World*War 11, and I will fight for my country at any time in the future, if necessary, and I am not interested in even knowing who that fight would be with.
Mr. TA, EzNrwn. Where did you serve as a pilot in the Armed Forces of the United States I
Mr. ALLvAD.-I servei1 in the Asiatic-Pacific theater.
Mr.TA%VE Were you a combat pilot?
Mr. AuAND. Yes, sir. I flew 56 missions as a combat pilot.
Mr. TAv-ExnN. Did you receive any special citations or recognition for your services asa pilot?
Mr. ALu..-D. Yes, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TIIE 108 ANGELES AREA 3529 
Mr. 'T'AVFNNIrji. What were they?
Mr. ALIAND. I was diwcharg d as a first lieutenant, and at that time I had reived the following: Tie Asiatic-l'acili,: 'J'heater Ribboln, the battle star for this ribbon; the Now Guinea campaign, a battle star to this ribbon. For the P'hililpine .ailipaign, I received it Philippine Liberation Ribbon and one bait lo sar. I recAi ved t he Air Medal, and I revived the llronzo Star Medal with Ile following citation: "Ist Lt. William L. Alland, Air Corps, UnitedI States Army."
Mr. )ovzi. What inuiber were you I
Mr. AIANi. 0693724. For meritorious achievement In conneeti|o with milliary oi*rnilg, agnlnat the enemy In the southwest Paific area from Ihm Ut of NeIeilxr 1944 to the 8th of April 1145; although he was assigned an a homier ilot, Lleutviont Alland volunirlly aNsmupld the additional d ty of lKw'1ul uervit' offlctwr and men officer of his bombardment sluadron. lie edited and bronderiNt three news prograin and lecture parties for the benefit of oMeer and enlisted men, and maintained a well.stocked port exchange. iDuring one transfer of ulatlona of the group he uauned the responuibllity of building a new theater and providing dllna; and at the new camp tie squadron mnesmahll IK'rgonne. tnider hil sulervision nnintnlined the highest m1ninlrd of clearillnes; anil for dilles beyondl those regularly required of him, lieutenant Allind e ontribth(i immeamurably to the morale of tie members of his organization. Order of the Bronze Htar, 1258 Hrealquarters, Far Kant Air Force, 25th of June 148. 
Mr. Doma. Do you still maintain a Rlserve commission?
Mr. ArLANt). No. When I was (lischarged they asked me about if 1 wanted to he in the Reserve, and I said "Yes." And they told me they would get in touch with me, and they never did. Subsequently I id some investigation and I found actually they considered me too old, and I was probably not taken for that reason.
Mr. I)owms. I am sure we thank you, Mr. Allandl, for cooerating this morning with us, and we are naturally counting on men like you that have awakened to the fact that you do have a dluty to try to correct your mistakes, and hlp the country against the Communist conspiracy. We have depended very, very much on you men doing the fullest posible share of work, to not only make amends, but to get other people to do the same thing.
Mr. TAVr.NNER. I have another matter.
Mr. l)oyr. All right.
Mr. TA ENNER. I ill you tell the committee, please, on what basis youpaid dues or a.,ezssments to the Communist PartyI Ar.ALLN. Well, the neighborhood branch, it was a flat weekly or monthly dues, based upon your earnings. And in my case I think it was$1 a month. In the radio branch it was-there was an additional attempt to collect funds on an assessment basis. I don't recall the exact percentage. I do recall resisting very much. I do think I finally gave as high as $25 at a tine on an assessment basis.
Mr. TAwNNF.R. You do not recall at this time the percentages of your salary or earnings which you were expected to pay.
Mr. Aa . cannot recall ithe exact percentages. I am sorry. I just don't i-:nem);,r.
Mr. TAv NNT:v,I think thatis all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DonL.:. .iave you any suggestions to this committee of any method or any ways r ii Y.., by which we can receive the more prompt cooperation (if the ? i' 'can citizens who have made the 3530 COMMUNIST ACTIVITLEB IN THE LO ANGELES AREA same mistake you have made yet have never come forward voluntarily to help clean it up? bos any step occur to you which we could take I How can we reach more of you people ? Or is there anything we can do which would call forth a voluntary operation with the committee I
Mr. ALLAN6. Perhaps I don't understand your question, ,correctly, Congressman. MAr. DOYLE. Let me make this clear. You have answered Mr. Tavenner's question why you didn't-well, you, of course, were an acceptable exceptioni-but," generally speaking is there anything we could do as a committee-we announce over the radio, we put it in the newspapers and we put it in our reports. It is generally known, is it not, that we are ready to cooperate with yom men or women who want to come forwardvolntarily That isnderstood, is it not, in your professional field I
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. In this regard I will say that the Communist Party has done a very effective propaganda job in frightening people away. Mir. DomiL . Well, how do they frighten them away! What do they do or say I MSr. ALLAND. Well, they strike very hard at the prospect of econoinic distress. In this regard, I can think of worse things than having to look for another job, when it is a small price to pay forif, let us say, the employment was affected, it is a small price to pay for being accepted back into your country, in effect. It is a small price to pay for the right to feel like you have a country.
Mr. DoYLx. The other method of the Communist Party, that they are using to try to keep present members or former members from cooperating with this committee or with the FBI, or any Government agency, is what I
Mr. ALAND. The whole psychological field is, of course, on the basis that you are being an informer, a word which of course is a term which is a derogatory term. If one could somehow show them the difference between, in a sense, a paid professional informer, whether he is paid, which is a difference between a paid professional informer and an informer and an American citizen who, because of his own conscience, he is to come forward, he needs to come forward, and because in his mind he feels in this way he is helping his country.
Mr. Doy.. Why didn't you plead the fifth amendment?
Mr. ALLAND. Itis not the same thing. The Communists try to put the label "informer" on anyone who cooperates with this committee, and an American citizen coming before a duly constituted committee of Congress to give information is not an informer.
Mr. Don&, Now, help us to understand why you didn't plead the fifth amendment. That is what the Communist Party would have liked you to do; isn't it?
Mr. Au. ND. Of course.
Mr. Don. Why didn't you I
Mr. ALLAND. I didn't, because I feel it is necessary to aid this committee in the job of protecting our country fromx the Communist Party.
Mr. TAvrNNER. Was the subject discussed in any of your Communist Party meetings of what course of conduct should be followed in the COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3531 event any Communist Party member should subsequently be called as a witness before the Committee on Un-American Activities?
Mr. AtLAND. Yes. This was standard procedure: If you were subpenaed you should use the fifth amendment, of course. And, of course, there was always speculation on who you could depend on and who you couldn't.
Mr. DOYLE. Among the members I
Mr. AuLAND. That is correct.
Mr. Doywa. Depend upon them to do what?
Mr. ALLAND. To use the fifth amendment and not cooperate, of course. 
Mr. Don .,. You sy it was standard procedure. Whatdo you mean by that Do you mean it was frequently discussed at the frequent meetings?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, any time discussions of the Un-American Activities took place.
Mr. DoYLE,. Do you remember the televised meetings of the UnAmerican Activities Committee here in Los Angeles?
Mr. AIJAND. Yes, sir.
Mr. DoYL,. That was several months ago. Was it discussed in the cell of which you were a member?
Mr. ALm.ND. I wasn't in-you seeMr. DomnP,. You were not then a member?
Mr. ArLAN. I have not been a member since 1949, sir, end of 1949.
Mr. TAYENNER. Did any discussion take place in your Communist Party meetings of what action or attitude should be taken toward those members of the Communist Party who testified before the committee and divulged their former Conmunist Party membership
Mr. ALLAND. Well, of course. You weren't ever to look at them again. Their names were an anathema. They were cursed and hated with a violence such as you can't imagine.
Mr. DoyLE. Was it (liscussed as to whether or not the Communist Party treasury would pay attorneys' fees to represent any witness before our committee?
Mr. AmrNm. No. But the Communist Party did try to get individual members to solicit funis whenever and wherever they could, from any source possible, to give to their members for attorneys' fees.
Mr. Doma. For attorneys fees for the reason that they were subpenaed to appear before this committee?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. 
Mr. DoYLE. For attorneys to be present with them before this committeel
Mr. ALLf.A,. Yes. And for c".-nsel prior to their appearance, between the time they were subpenaed and the time they appeared.
Mr. Doyix. And were these funds solicited (luring or at or in connection with any Communist Party meeting which you attended, for instance?
Mr. ALLAND. No, sir, because this was after my time, so to speak. But I do know because I was approached for funds.
Mr. DomEic. While you were a Communist?
Mr. AuAxD. No, afterward.
Mr. Domz. Even afterward?
Mr. A DA . Oh, yes. I was approached-you know, Communists never say die, even when you leave. They are just not ready to believe 3532 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELBS AREA that they still don't have some appeal to you. And unless you praotically slam the door in their faces and say, "Look"-slam the door in their faces, they keep coming back.
Mr. TAVENNXR. Are you aware of any organized effort by the Communist Party to discredit the testimony of witnesses who have testified before the Committee on Un-American Activities or other investigative boards regarding their experiences in the Communist Party?
Mr. Au.AR. I recall a pamphlet in which the case of Mr. Dmytryk was discussed-his character, his untrustworthiness, even while-he was in the party. The party now could see very clearly, and it was an attempt to prove that he was evil even when he was in the party. Yes, I have seen such a pamphlet.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any personal knowledge as to the identity of those who were responsible for that?
Mr. Au.AND. No, sir; I don't recall who wrote the pamphlet or what the name of the article was, or what was in it, even.
Mr. DOYLE. You mean it was put in print, attacking him after he testified before this committee?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes.
Mr. DoYLF. Was not put in print or campaigned against him until after he appeared before the committee; is that right I
Mr. ALLAND. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. DomE. Do you, Mr. Alland, have anything else you want to say?
Mr. AL.D. I am sorry. You know, I was in about 2 years, and through my connection, I mean I had earlier connections with people for quite a while and there is a lot one can say. It is very difficult to sum it up. It is too serious and too important to be able to sum it up easily. 'But the testimony before this committee over a period of time must and does, and must and will have a tremendous effect on all of I am sure. r. DoYmE. On behalf of the committee I want to invite you to continue helping us to protect our country against this Communist conspiracy.
Mr. AuLAD. I certainly will, sir.
Mr. Do m In that connection Mr.Aland, may I cordially thank you for your cooperation with the committee in this testimony you have given us.
Mr. ALLAND. Thank you, sir.
Mr. Doy. We certainly appreciate it. (Thereupon, at 12: 30 p. m.,the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at2 p. m.,same day.) A TERNOON SESION (At the hour of 2:15 p. in., of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, Representatives Donald L. Jackson and Clyde Doyle being present.)
Mr. JACKSON.. The subcommittee will be in order.
Mr. Tavenner, have you a witness I
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Milton Merlin, will you come forward. 6Edward DTaytryk refused to answer question before the committee in 1947. for this was cited, convicted, and served a jail sentence under contempt of Congress. On April 25, 1951 however he again was a witness before the committee, at which time he gave comprehensive teslmony regarding the Communist conspiracy and his part in it. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3533 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. ME.uRAN. I do.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you represented by counsel I
Mr. MRLiN. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you desire counsel?
Mr. M3ERuN. No, sir. TESTIMONY OF MILTON MERLIN 