Mr. WHEELER. William A. Wheeler.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Wheeler, are you employed as an investigator by the Committee on Un-American Activities ? 
Mr. WHEELER. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been so employed ?
Mr. WHEELER. It will be 4 years this coming August.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Wheeler, were you directed to serve various subpenas in California for the attendance of prospective witnesses at this hearing ?
Mr. WHEELER. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. By "this hearing" I do not necessarily confine it to today, but I mean the Hollywood hearings. 
Mr. WHEELER. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish you would state to the committee what difficulty, if any, you have had in serving those subpenas, and be specific as to names and as to the circumstances.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Andrews and I were assigned by this committee to serve approximately 30 subpenas.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who is Mr. Andrews? 
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Andrews is also an investigator of this com- mittee-on approximately 30 individuals in Hollywood. During the course of this assignment we were in Hollywood on two separate occasions, the first from February 21 to March 17, 1951, and again from April 1 to April 8 of this year. During-this period of time Mr. Andrews and I made a diligent effort in a search for these individuals. A number of subpenas were served. We also had the assistance of the United States marshal's office in the serving of subpenas. I would like to bring to the committee's attention the following cases in which we had difficulty. The first was the case of Michael Uris. He resides at 3276 DeRonda Drive, Los Angeles, Calif. Mr. Uris is not presently employed by any studio and is listed as a free lance screen writer. On the 24th of February the home of Mr. Uris was contacted in an effort to serve the subpena. The maid answered the door and advised that Mr. Uris was ill at the time. Mrs. Uris then came to the door and stated that her husband was sick with a virus infection. Mrs. Uris stated that she would go upstairs and talk the matter over with her husband, which she did. She returned and stated that her husband was too ill to accept service and to call again on the following Monday, .which would be February 26. She absolutely refused admittance 322 INDUSTRY to see Mr. Uris and promised to see that the service of the subpena would be expedited the following Monday. On the following Monday the home of Mr. Uris was again visited, and Mrs. Uris advised that the doctors had sent Mr. Uris to the hospital and had instructed that he see no one. It was then requested that she obtain a statement from her doctor or doctors regarding the nature of her husband's illness. She declined to name the name of the doctor or the hospital to which her husband was sent. She stated that she would contact the doctor and advise us the following day. The following day, through the cooperation of a local law-enforcement agency, all the hospitals in Los Angeles area were checked, with negative results. The Uris residence was again contacted, and Mrs. Uris advised that she had sent her husband out of town to recuperate, and he had not gone to a hospital. (Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room.)
Mr. WHEELER. The subpena for Mr. Uris originally called for his appearance here on the 21st day of March, 1951. Prior to leaving Los Angeles, we left the subpena with the United States marshal. On our second trip to Hollywood we again contacted the home of Michael Uris and found no one at home.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. Do you know whether the United States marshal made any effort to serve the subpena ?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes, sir, they did. I have some evidence that I would like to bring in at a later time regarding all these witnesses. The second person that we have had some difficulty with is Georgia Backus Alexander. This individual is a radio writer and is known professionally as Georgia Backus. She resides with her husband at 6149 Fulton Avenue, Van Nuys, Calif. On the 24th of February the home of Georgia Backus was contacted, at which time we talked to her husband, Harmon Alexander. He refused to permit his wife to accept service of the subpena by not permitting her to leave the house. He stated that he wanted to discuss the matter with his lawyer, and we requested that he do so at once. He made an effort to contact the lawyer but stated that he could not be located, and wanted us to contact him again the following Monday. We contacted him the following Monday by telephone, and he advised that his lawyer was a Mr. Esterman, 6513 Hollywood Boulevard, and that Mr. Esterman would arrange to accept service bf the subpena or make Mrs. Backus available. He was contacted, and he stated that he had not been retained by the subject but would ascertain his position in the matter and let us know the following day, on Tuesday. Mr. Esterman was again contacted, and he advised that he did not represent the subject and for us to attempt to serve the subpena in the normal manner. Mr. Alexander was again contacted, and he advised that his wife had gone out of town, and he declined to give any information as to her whereabouts. The United States marshal's office made an effort to serve this subpena and failed. The original subpena issued for her called for appearance before this committee on March 22, 1951. Prior to leaving Los Angeles, we left the subpena with the United States marshal's office, which is at the present time outstanding. The next individual is Fred Rinaldo, of 14078 Davana Terrace, Sherman Oaks, Calif. He has also been successful in avoiding the service of a subpena. Mr. Rinaldo is a free-lance screen writer and at the present time unemployed. I personally called at the home of Mr.  323 Rinaldo on various occasions and discussed the matter with his wife. The second time we called there we identified ourselves and gave the purpose for our visit. She stated that Mr. Rinaldo was out on the desert, that he had a virus infection and had gone out to recuperate, but she didn't know where he was, that he hadn't called her and she had no way of getting in contact with him whatsoever. This continued for a period of 3 weeks, calling at the home and discussing the matter with Mrs. Rinaldo and also the maid. On April 6, during our second visit to California, we again called at the home of Mr. Rinaldo, and the maid answered the door. She stated that Mr. Rinaldo was still out on the desert, that she didn't know where he was, and that Mrs. Rinaldo was not home. The United States marshal's office or deputy United States marshal representing that office has also called at the home of Mr. Rinaldo on several occasions. The next individual is Mr. Hugo Butler. He is a screen writer and also unemployed. He resides at 2002 North Serrano, Hollywood, Calif. During the week of February 26, 1951, we visited the home of Mr. Hugo Butler and were informed by his wife that Mr. Butler was expected home at 5:30. We did not identify ourselves at that time or the purpose of the visit. We called again the same day and were advised by his wife that she and Mr. Butler had some marital difficulty and that he had left the city. The marshal's office has also called on the home of Mr. Butler on numerous occasions, as well as
Mr. Andrews and myself, without success. The last time we called was April 6, and there was no response when we rang the bell. Butler's original subpena called for his appearance here in Washington on the 17th day of February. On February 14 a subpena was left with the United States marshal, calling for his appearance here at a later date. The next individual is Miss Karen Morley, an actress who resides at 2723 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, Hollywood, Calif. The home of Miss Morley was lirst visited during the week of February 26, 1951. In response to the ringing of the door bell an individual, also an actor, named Lloyd Gough, came to the door, and we talked to him regarding Miss Morley. He stated that she would be back later and to call later the same day. We did, and we called back on various occasions during our period there and found absolutely no one at home.
Mr. TAVENNER. About how many times did you call there?
Mr. WHEELER. I would say we visited Miss Morley's house more than we did anybody else's. She was closest to the hotel. I would say we were up there at least 20 times, and maybe more. We called again on April 6 and'she was not at home. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the subpena left with the United States mar- shal? 
Mr. WHEELER. Yes, sir; we left the subpena with the United States marshal, and they also have attempted to serve Miss Morley, without result. The next individual, Jack Berry, is a motion-picture director. He resides at 935 North Kings Road, Hollywood Calif. On the day of February 24 we called at the home of Mr. Berry and talked' to his wife. On this occasion the identity of the investigator was disclosed to Mrs. Berry. She advised that her husband was out and would not be home until late at night, and also that they were going away 324  fbr the week end, but Mr. Berry would be available the following Monday to accept service. As I recall, we called several times at the house that night, but without finding them at home. On the following Monday Mrs. Berry was contacted, and she advised that her husband was at home, but would not accept service of the subpena until he had seen his lawyer. An appointment was arranged through Mrs. Berry to have Mr. Berry accept the service of the subpena the following day at 2 p. m.. and it was understood that should there be any changes in plans she would notify Mr. Andrews or myself at the hotel. Mr. Berry failed to keep the appointment and made no attempt to notify us of any change in plans. Subsequent attempts to contact the subject or his wife have met with no success. We visited the home of Mr. Berry on numerous occasions. The door was always answered by a lady who identified herself as a nurse, taking care of the children. She stated that the Berrys were out of town, didn't know when they would be back, or did not know how to locate them. On the 6th of April we again contacted the home of Mr. Berry.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. About what age were the children, if the nurse didn't know how to locate the parents.
Mr. WHEELER. That I actually don't know, Mr. Tavenner; but it is my understanding that they are small children. I believe they have two.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. DO LE. Did you leave that subpena with the marshal ?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes. The subpena is with the marshal, Mr. Doyle. On April 6 the home was again contacted by Mr. Andrews and me, and the maid related the same story, that the Berrys were out of town, she didn't know where they were, nor when she expected them back. The next individual, Lew Solomon, is a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that L-e-w ?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes; L-e-w S-o-l-o-m-o-n. He resides at 10513 Holman Avenue, West Los Angeles, Calif. Mr. Solomon's residence has been contacted repeatedly by the United States marshal in Los Angeles, Calif. He has talked both with Mrs. Solomon and the maid, and Mr. Solomon is just out of town and has been out of town for a period of 4 or 5 weeks, or left town shortly after Mr. Andrews and I arrived in Hollywood. The marshal has been unable to locate him.
Mr. Andrews and I called at his home on April 6 and were advised by the maid that Mr. Solomon was out of town. She didn't know where he was nor when to expect him back, and Mrs. Solomon was also out. The next individual is Leonardo Bercovici, 10520 Garwood Avenue, Los Angeles, Calif. Mr. Bercovici is also a screen writer and is presently unemployed. Just prior to leaving Hollywood to return to Washington the first time, we received a telegram from Mr. Russell instructing us to serve Mr. Bercovici. We went to his home that night, accompanied by a deputy United States marshal, and I accompanied
Mr. Sweeney to the door, who is the deputy marshal.
Mr. TAVENNER. Speak a little louder, please.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. William S. Sweeney, the deputy marshal.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you accompanied Mr. Sweeney to the door?
Mr. WHEELER. That is correct. A lady who identified herself as
Mrs. Bercovici answered the door and stated her husband was not at hoine and didn't know exactly when he was going to return, that he  -was at a conference. 325 We didn't identify ourselves nor the purpose 'of our call. However, the following day Mrs. Bercovici was contacted again, and I identified myself as to who I was and the purpose of our call, and stated that it was necessary for Mr. Andrews and me to return to Washington, and that we had left a subpena in the hands of the United States marshal. The marshal has been unable to serve the subpena. On April 6 we again contacted the home of Mr. Bercovici, and no one was home. It was quite evident that no one had been there for a period of time, due to the newspapers and various other ,objects in the yard. The last individual which I wish to bring to the committee's attention is Edward Huebsch. He resides at 11200 La Maida, Los Angeles, Calif. We received this subpena rather late on our first trip to California, and when we received it we accompanied the United States marshal or deputy United States marshal to the home of Mr. Huebsch. The marshal talked to Mrs. Huebsch and was informed that her husband would be home later that same date. We stayed around the place until fairly late at night, and Mr. Huebsch did not return. Inquiries around the neighborhood disclosed that the next day Mrs. Huebsch loaded the station wagon up and left. No one has been -there for the last 5 weeks. We contacted the residence again on April 6, and no one was at home. In regard to these individuals, I would like to bring to the attention of the committee a newspaper .article appearing in the Los Angeles Examiner on Friday, March 23, 1951. That was shortly after Mr. Andrews and I left California. I would like to read this into the record: Meanwhile, United States Marshal .ames Boyle announced that 10 more Holly-wood figures are being sought to be subpenaed to appear before the committee investigating communism in motion pictures at its next hearing April 10. They -are Karen Morley- Do you wish me to read the addresses in or just the names of the individuals ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you should read the address as well as the name.
Mr. WHEELER (continuing) Karen Morley, 2723 Laurel Canyon Boulevard, actress, whose name figured in testimony before this committee Tuesday; Paul Jarrico, 320 Sherbourne Drive- In response to this article, Mr. Jarrico contacted the marshal's office and stated that he was ready to accept service of the subpena. Fred Rinaldo, 14087 Davana Terrace, North Hollywood; Lew Solomon, 10513 Holman Avenue, West Los Angeles; Michael Uris, 3276 Deronde Drive; Georgia Backus Alexander. 6149 Fulton Avenue, Van Nuys, Calif.; Jack Berry, 935 North Kings Road; Hgo Butler, 2002 North Serrano Avenue; Leonardo Bercovici, 10520 Garwood Avenue; Edward Huebsch, 10200 La Nida, North Hollywood. The La Nida address is incorrect, but I put the correct address in .previously. This article continues: Most of those sought are film writers. Boyle said his deputies have been searching for them for nearly a week but none could be located at the addresses given. 
Mr. Tavenner, I have a letter here from the United States marshal regarding the individuals whom I have just testified about.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you read it into the record. 326 
Mr. WHEELER. The letter is dated April 6, 1951, and states: Hon. JOHN S. WOOD, Chairman,Committee on Un-American Activities, House Office Building, Washington, D. 0. DEAR M. WOOD: James J. Boyle, United States marshal for the southern District of California, wishes to state that he has been unable to comply with the committee's request that the following named persons be served subpenas commanding their appearance in the District of Columbia: Georgia Backus Alexander, Jack Berry, Hugo Butler, Leonardo Bercovici, Edward Huebsch, Karen Morley, Fred Rinaldo, Lew Solomon, Michael Uris. The marshal regrets to report this unusual situation exists despite the diligent search of his deputies for a period of several weeks in their attempt to effect the service. Very truly yours, JAMES J. BOYLE, United States Marshal. 
Mr. DOrLE. What is the date of that letter
Mr. WHEELER. April 6, 1951.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is all, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. DOYLE. Would you say, Mr. Wheeler, that at all times while you were in California on both trips you made a diligent, in good faith, active effort to serve these people whom you have named with these subpenas ?
Mr. WHEmER. That is correct, sir; and additional investigation was made concerning these individuals in an effort to locate them.
Mr. DOYLE. What effort did you make, other than what you have stated? 
Mr. WHEELER. With your permission, sir, I would rather relate that in executive testimony. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I won't press it then. Do you feel from your investigation, what you know of the facts as you discovered them out there and saw them after conversing with these relatives and employees of these people that you have named, that they deliberately avoided service of the subpenas ?
Mr. WHEELER. That is my opinion, sir.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde?
Mr. VELDE. I have no questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. I have no questions.
Mr. WOOD. Any further testimony? 
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Have you anything further for today ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. As far as public hearings are concerned, the committee will stand in recess until next Monday at 10 o'clock. (Whereupon, at 12:25 p. m., the committee was recessed, to recon- vene at 10 a. m., Monday, April 23,1951.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 2 MONDAY, APRIL 23, 1951 UNrrD STATES HousE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVIIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to call at 10:25 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, James B. Frazier, Jr., Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, Courtney E. Owens, and James Andrews, investigators; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WooD. Let the committee be in order. Let the record show that there are present the following members of the committee: Mr. Walter, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Frazier, Mr. Velde,
Mr. Kearney, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Potter, and Mr. Wood, a quorum of the full committee. I have a communication from Mr. Clyde Doyle, a member of the committee, stating that the chairman of the Committee on Armed Services, of which committee he is a member, has designated him to represent him as chairman and the committee membership to participate in the annual inspection and visit to West Point Military Academy, and that it will be impossible for him to.be in attendance today, tomorrow, and the next day. I will file this letter for the record. I would like at this point to read into the record a letter which I received from the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc., dated April 20, 1951: MY DEAR Mn. OCAIRMAN: As we advised you before you began your hearings on communism in Hollywood, your committee has the full cooperation and earnest backing of the Motion Picture Association of America. Now, -at a midpoint in your investigation, we note with satisfaction the cooperative spirit of a number of witnesses who have beamed the spotlight on Communists and their activities, while we deplore the unresponsive attitude of other witnesses. The cooperative witnesses have heeded the injunction of the Hollywood Motion Picture Industry Council, composed of representatives from all segments of the industry-producers, labor unions, office workers, actors, writers, and directors. 327 328 INDUSTRY On this point. as you recall, the MPIIC filed a statement with your committeeon March 27 N'ich said: "The MPIC hopes that all members of this industry who have been subpenaed will tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. It deplores those who stand on constitutional privileges to hide that truth, or those who refuse to recognize the authority of the Congress." Your committee is performing valuable service to our national security in smoking out communism. We wish to assure the committee of our continued support in this inquiry, and it is our hope it will accomplish the exposure of communism, not only in ours but in other vital and sensitive industries. File that witl the committee. Are you ready to proceed, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Just one moment, please.
Mr. John Garfield, please.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Garfield, will you please raise your right hand and be sworn? You solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. GARFIELD. I do. TESTIMONY OF JOHN JULES GARFIELD, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS: COUNSEL, LOUIS NIZER AND SIDNEY DAVIS  