1463-2 INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES INTHE LOS ANGELES AREA-Part 8 HEARING BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES EIGHTY-THIRD CONGRESS FIRST SESSION NOVEMBER 23, 1953 Printed for the use of the Committee on Un-American Activities INCLUDING INDEX UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 81747 WASHINGTON : 1934 COMMITTEE ON UN-ASIERICAN ACrIVITIES Ur'lizn STATES Houst ovr REI'RErXTATI1%8 HAROLD H. VELDE. Illinoi, Chairman BERNARD W. KEARNEY. New York FRANCIS& W.~ALTER. Pennslvania DONALD L JACKSON, California MLOROANMi.MOUJLDER. Missouri KIT CLARDY. Michigan CLYDE DOTLE. Californaa GORDON HL SCHERER, Ohio JAMES B. FUAZIER. JaL, Tennse ROBRT L, KC10zig, COuNSel FSANX 8. TAYRUNCR. Jr., Covatl LouIS J. HR88ueLL, Chief Inreatigofor THoMAB W. i19AL1.Sr.. ChifE Clerk RAPHAEL I. Nixox, Director of Resarch CONTENTS November 23, 1953, testimony of- ----- --- --- --- --- -Max N. Benoit 850)8 --------John Brown W illllam It. AllazmL ---.. -------.-..---..-.----.--3511 Wton -eln-.--------..... - 8S 1061Z----- ------- &[ PuLTo LAw 601, 79TH CONGRESS The legislation under which the House Committee on Un-American Activities operates is Public Law 601, 79th Congress [1946], chapter 753, 2d session, which provides: Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre#entative of the United States of America in Congress assembled, * 0 0 PART 2-RULES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES RuLz X aSE,121. STANDING ooMMrTIZ5s 17. Committee on Un-American Activities, to consist of nine members. RULE XI lOWERS AND DtXU O 0oMUrTEMS (q) (1) Committee on Un-American Activities. (A) Un-American activities. (2) The Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole or by subcommittee, Is authorized to make from time to time Investigations of (1) the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States, (11)the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda that is Instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution, and (il) all other questions In relation thereto that would aid Congress In any necessary remedial legislation. The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the House (or to the Clerk of the House if the House Is not In session) the results of any such lnvestgation, together with such recommendations as It deems advisable. For the purpose of any such Investigation, the Committee on Un-American Aetvitles, or any subcommittee thereof, Is authorized to sit and act at such times and places within the United States, whether or not the House Is sitting, has recessed, or has adjourned, to hold such bearings, to require the attendance of such witnesses and the production of such books, papers, and documents, and to take such testimony, as It deems necessary. Subpenas may be Issued under the signature of the chairman of the committee or any subcommittee, or by any member designated by any such chairman, and may be served by any person designated by any such chairman or member. RULEM ADOPTED BY THE 83D CONGRESS House Resolution 5, January 8, 193 Ruma X cOMMuZIuB TANDWNO 1. There shall be elected by the House, at the commencement of each Congress, the following standing committees: * S S S S 5 5 (q) Committee on Un-American Activities, to consist of nine members. * S S S S S Rucz XI POWERS AND DUTIM Or COUMrrTE 1?. Committee on Un-American Activities. (a) Un-American Activities. (b) The Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole or by subcommittee, Is authorized to make from time to time, Investigntions of (1) the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities In the United States, (2) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propuganda that Is Instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution, and (3) all other questions In relation thereto that would aid Congress In any necessary remedial legislation. The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the House (or to the Clerk of the House If the House Is not In session) the results of any such Investigation, together with such recommendations as it deems advisable. For the purpose of any such investigation, the Committee on Un-American Activities, or any subcommittee thereof, Is authorized to sit and act at such times and places within the United States, whether or not the House is sitting, has recessed, or has adjourned, to hold such hearings, to require the attendance of such witnesses and the production of such books, papers, and documents, and to take such testimony, as it deems necessary. Subpenas may be Issued under the signature of the chairman of the committee or any subcommittee, or by any member designated by such chairman, and may be served by any person designated by any such chairman or member. vt INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA-PART 8 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1953 UNITmD STATES CommT-r. IOUsE OF REPRFsENTATlVZ-, ON Ux-AMMEICAN Acriv'T s, Los Anyeoe, Calif. EXECUTIVE SESSION' The Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to call, at 9: 30 a in in room G-39, Federal Building, Los Angeles, Calif., lion. Donald L Jackson presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Donald L. Jackson and Clyde Doyle. Staff members present: Frank Tavenner, Jr., counsel; and William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. JAcKsON. By direction of the chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities there is convened herewith a subcommittee of that committee, the subcommittee consisting of Congressman Doyle, with Congressman Jackson as acting chairman. Areyou ready to proceed, Mr. Tavennerl
Mr. 'AVENNFMt. Yes, sir. Mr. Benoff.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, sohelpyou God t 
Mr. BExoF?. I do. TESTIMONY OF MAX N. DEIIOFF
Mr. TAvENNZR. Will you state your nameI 
Mr. BENOFF. Max Benoff. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You testified before the Committee on Un-American Activities in Los Angeles on March 24,1953, did you not?
Mr. BENorF. Yes, air.
Mr. TAVENNIM. The committee has been informed that you desire to appear again before the committee this morning.
Mr. BENoFr. Ye sir.
Mr. TAvENNF.R. Wili you state to the committee, pleaIse the reason for your desire to appear before the committee, and proceed to make such statements as you desire.
Mr. BENOFF. I want to thank you first for allowing me to appear here 'Released by tie fall committee. 3Mo 3502 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. DomLw. I think Mr. Chairman, the witness is here without legal counsel. I wonder if that is entirely at your own choice.
Mr. BcwOF?. Yes.
Mr. DoylE. You are willing to proceed without private counsel with youI
Mr. BENOFF. Yes. Mr. Tavenner, may I read a statement which I have prepared? I am sorry, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Proceed.
Mr. BENOFF. When I appeared before the House Committee on Un-American Activities I was motivated by only one desire: To draw a distinct line between my confused past and my clear knowledge and distinction of the truth which I see today. I not only wanted to make amends for personal mistakes and misassociations, but overcoming personal pride and false consideration which tied me to an untenable position, I wanted to be accepted by the movement which is now afoot and which I have now learned to respect as the only salvation, and that is the movement to stamp out communism. I used the privilege of appearing before the committee in order to make a public break and declare myself as an ally of the anti-Communist forces. Unknowingly I have been drawn into a movement, the true nature of which I never understood, which now turns out to have been part of a subversive activity which cannot be tolerated by anyone who calls himself an American. Now, it has become clear to me that the Communists have declared war on us and they intend to win this war with every means at their disposal, aboveboard or underground. After my testimony I have found that the impression created by me on the stand was not what I intended. Where I thought that I had been 100 percent cooperative, some people whose patriotism has been above reproach, have expressed their disappointment in the manner and contents of my statements. Looking back, I must say that I could have been more definite, but I would like to submit that at that time I was only intent upon declaring myself as a cooperative witness and had left the manner and extent of the questioning to the committee. It was only human of me to try and make my appearance as short as possible. When the committee had no more questions and I was thanked for my testimony, I stepped off the stand, relieved and convinced that I had done my duty and accomplished my purpose. However, as long as even one doubt remains among people whose fight against communism I admire and eagerly support, I know that I have not done enough. I am not sure what else I can do, and I am not sure of some of the facts that unfortunately seem to be on record against me, and which I can less explain than some people who may be experts in the structure, organization, and workings of the Communist menace and disease. But I want to reiterate that I would go to any extent to help uncover facts that I may not be aware of if, with the help of more competent People, I would be assisted in remembering. The basic facts; as given in my short testimony, are still, to my best recollection, the sum total of my Communist Party affiliations. The names mentioned by me are still more or less all the names that I can identify with the degree of certainty required under oath. CoMUnST avrrIs iN TH LOS ANaELES AnzA 3503 However, a great deal can sometimes be achieved if good people get together and cooperate. I would be happy and privileged in doing my duty as a citizen if I were permitted to dig into my past, with the help of the investigator or even a group of citizens whom I respect, in order to unearth any more clues that might be of any value in our fight against the common enemy Do I need to add that I am, aove and beyond my above statements, ready, willing, and eager to take up arms, literally or any other way, to do my little share as a citizen ?
Mr. JAcKsox. Thank you, Mr. Benoff.
Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TANT]NTE. Mr. Benoff, you testified when before the committee previously of the character of work in which you had been engaged in New York City prior to your coming to Hollywood in the year 1943. You were asked the question at that time as to whether or not you had been affiliated with the Communist Party in any manner in New York prior to your coming to Los Angeles, and your reply was that you had not. You were also asked the question as to whether or not you had been approached in New York City by anyone and requested to join the Communist Party, and you replied that you had not. The committee is in possession of information indicating that your Communist Party membership was transferred in November 1943 from the city of Rew York to Los Angeles. That is the only matter that comes Wvithin my knowledge as to which you could be further interrogated with the prospect of accomplishing any further purpose. So I would like to ask you now whether you desire in any way to enlarge upon your former testimony.
Mr. BENOF. Yes, Mr. Tavenner, I do very much want to enlarge upon that. When I gave that answer it was a truthful answer, and this is my enlargement upon it. When we worked on Duffy's Tavern 2 men came from Hollywood-one was Jack Moss--to produce a picture show out of tho road show Duffy's Tavern. The other fellow was a writer whose name was Lou Soloian.
Mr. JcKsox. Would you spell that, please !
Mr. BF.NOF. L-o-u S-o-l-o-m-a-n. And now I can't recall that he said to me, "Will you join the Communist Party?" If he did, I would be more than happy to say so, that he did, if he signed me. If I actually had a clear recollection, or even a hazy recollectionalthough you want me to say only what I recall, I know. 1 would tell you so. I have nothing to hide and don't want to hide anything from the committee. But I can only say this: This is what it must have been-and in retrospect it exp)aini a lot of things that don't seem quite right-I am sure that he said to me, "Would you like to meet big writers like myself ' I thought he was a big writer. He wasn't very'Mr. TvENN-R. To whom are you referring I
Mr. Borr. To Mr. Lou. Solonmun; not to Mr. Mosm I don't remember this type of conversation with Mr. Moss. Ile must have said to me,"Would you like to meet with big writers I" And in those days discussions of communism was not like it,Mr. DoYLE. What year was this? 81741-54--pt. 8-2 350 COMMUST *criVffm DI TEN 
Mr. Bjoraq. 1948. L40B AKGNLNS AMN They came out-I don't remember exactly. I left, I believe, in June, and I believe they were in New York for about a month with us, in which time they signed us to write the screenplay with Lou Soloman, and to come back to Hollywood with a kind ofscreenplay; that is, he came to get the title and he got it and we were brought back. He may have said to me, "Would you like to join the Communist Partyl" at which time it wouldn't have seemed so out of line for me to say, and possibly .1 told him "Yes." I may have, but I don't think I did; but possibly I did. I know one thing, it was always the mark of a ood Communist to grab a recruit whenever you can; even if he wasn't very good you got him and worked with him. I remember once walking alon $the street with Jack Moss, walking and talking along, and he walked-into a drugstore and bought me a copy of Mother Russia, and said, "Here, this will teach you more about Russia." That is all r can remember. I don't recall even going to one meeting. If there was any kind of activity there, there never was any kind of Communist Party activity on my part. o
Mr. TAVENNER. You are speaking now of the city of New York?
Mr. Bzo*7. Yes, the city of New York. And I would have no reason to--believe me, gentlemen, I' don't want-there is no reason why I wouid want to tell about California and not this part of New York. It didn't seem very important. I discussed with my attorneys at the time, as a matter of fact, and I know how the committee-I know from Mr. Wheeler you have to be pretty definite before you can say anything that will incriminate on the stand, and I know the high purpose of the committee is not to say things that have no real backing.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the general nature of the representations, if any, that were made to you by Mr. Soloman, or your general impression as to his political philosophy I
Mr. Barrow. Well, Mr. Jackson, you know in retrospect now, that
Mr. Soloman has been identified a number oi times as a Communist. You know you are bound to be affected by things that are spoken, but,honestly, here is what really went on: 'He came there with the treatment for Duffy's Tavern. Duffy's Tavern was not anything that had to do with communism; completely opposite, as a matter of fact- that is, opposite in that it was free and democratic and so forth. And our discussions were mainly upon this thing, because we had all worked very hard on Duffy's Tavern for 2 years, day and night, and it meant very much to us. First, when they came they had to make a deal. So really it was a very short period. First they came they had to make the deal-it wasn't made yet--then the time had to be spent to make the deal. Then it was to hire the writers, and we were naturally selected to be the writers. And that was kind of a shaking thing, because it was so much money we were getting, and so on. There really wasn't much time. Now, I might add that Lou.Soloman didn't take very much to me. Whatever it was, our personalities were not of the same type. He was a much more serious fellow than I am; was a different type fellow than I am. In fact, what happened was when we came out here I 0mMST Ac TU Im TH LOs AxGmE Am 3505 left Duffy's Tavern and went into picture work, and I never even talked to Lou Soloman. He never called me up and said, "Come to meetingn" and he had nothing to do at all with any Communist Party activity here. I never saw him at a meeting. That's hard to say becaue--in fact, I will take that back, because that is hard to say because you get everything confused. Now, it is 10 years or so, and what you think you saw at the Screen Writers' Guild or Veterans Committee meeting, maybe you are now mistaken.
Mr. JAcxsoN. Well now, today, under the compulsion of your oath, you are prepared, Mr. Benoff, without equivocation, to say that you have told the committee everything within your recollection or your knowledge?
Mr. Bnxonm. Absolutely.
Mr. JAcxso . As to your activities in and on behalf of the Communist Party, and also the names of all the individuals with whom you attended Communist Party meetings or Communist Party functions
Mr. Bnrow. In New Y I
Mr. JACKSON. Yes.
Mr. Bzxow. Y -ir, absolutely so, sir.
Mr. TAvzNNRi I have no furtherq1estions.
Mr.J~cxso~'. Is there anything,Mr:Dole!
Mr. Dovi.. Let's see, you a howold now?
Mr. BFrv. Thirtylcght. \
Mr.Doli. Dun thistim,10yeegragoyouwere281 \
Mr. iskorzn. That is i*htd9- --.
Mr..I~rn. I notice At Anentdened, though, that Ar. Mon stopped at astore and bougo Ou a book boat Russia and said "Here is morelabout Rtka." 
Mr. 1zO. yel.iI ~ T rent l y you had been discussing Uussia. C 
Mr. In*hat way withM.iUo
Mr. Btrof,. J tstasanybody wouid di 6ujs it at that time. I think we wer together the (var then, I belliwe'ww-were. I doift know how the nversatlon.ould h'arte. . ,.It wouldn't be that startling, to e me reim ember, but V -remeniber him buying n;'o a book. But it co d have started about wy they were'our allied; I don't know wheth tere wst a second front tho. Any oas of those things. - ..- / 
Mr. DormuWhat I
Mr. Bzvor. Oekainly, Mr. Doyle, it had nothing to do-I don't know. It had nothing to do with the nature of 'the material in the screen play. in-e , .Mr.Dohx.I am interested seei-g if you could help me understand more what it is that impels you now to be so desirous of doing everything you can to do what you said you want to do in the state. ment.you just read to us, to the committee; that is, to cooperate in defeating the Communist conspiracy. What is it, Mr. Benoff, that im is ou to that position I It *Nso .Well you know, it is a hard thing to say. Of course, ithas to do with work. But that is not it. It is a hard thing to say. I can't stand the thought that people are saying, "What's the matter with Benoff," you know. "Is he still a CommuxustV" For instance, a man who I respect very much said to me, "Let your conscience be your guide." Now, that is terrible. I mean, I can't go 3506 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE. LOS ANGELES AREA Iirough life with people thinking I am not an American or there .a some kind of spy kind of thing, or something like that. The rumors that get around are just terrible. These things kill me. I have to clear that up, and I think what happened last time, if the testimony got around to being too flippant, that I have led some people to believe that-that's what I want to erase. I mean I am deadly serious about this. I can't have people say these things about me. If I may I would like-for instance, it has been brought to my attention-i didn't know this thing was going on aboutMr. DoY. What
Mr. BzEOFF. I mean, people saying, or a man who I had admired and respected, saying, "Let your conscience be your guide." What's going on ? Then I found out there is a rumor aflight that I worked in the Russian Embassy, that my father worked in the Russian Embassy. That is not so. The simple fact of the story is that way back, when I was about 19 I worked for Torgsin, who may have been a part of the Amtorg Wrading Corp., which was a 7.assian subsidiary. I worked as a shipping clerk. I worked for $18 a week. I worked for k.months. I was happy to have the job. They fired me, or I quit, I don't know which it was, what happened.
Mr. Doymz. How did you get that?
Mr. BENoFF. My father did some insurance--he spoke Russian. I went back and asked my father, and he says, "You can go back to your children and everybody and say, 'I was not a member and am not.'" He is retired now, and doesn't do any business. That is the kind of rumor I want to dispel. Then I hear that when I got on the Life with Luigi, there was a fellow by the name of Hy Kraft, who has been identified, been brought up as a Communist, and that there was something indicated of a contact, you know, kind of Communist Party contact was alluded to. That is not so, because I was brought on to see if I could help that show. I was such a great aid that in 3 weeks Mr. Kraft was taken off the show. So how could there have been any connection, any kind of Communist Party connection between Mr. Kraft and myself? I mean, I think that I didn't make my position clear enough at the time; I think I didn't quite understand'it, and I think I have to make my position evident. There has to be definiteness about it. I don't want anybody to have any idea that I am affiliated with the Communists. I think it is terrible.
Mr. DoymE. What is wrong with the Communist propaganda program, as far as our Nation is concerned with it, what is there, in your judgment, that makes you so anxious to divorce yourself of the possibility that at any time you were a member of the Communist Party? Suppose you had been I Suppose you were now?
Mr. BENOFF. Oh, no. Communism, as I said it is a disease, it is a menace, and, well, it's taken a lot of people and been a hard lesson to learn; against every interest of our country. It hasto be destroyed, I think.
Mr. Dom. I agree with you, of course, but I want to see if part of your motive in coming here this morning was to come out against the Communist propaganda program, rather than just entirely to clear up your own status in the community; if you get my point. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3507 
Mr. BENoF'. I certainly do. If I haven't made myself clearMr. DOYm. In other words, the reason Don Jackson and I are here this morning is because there is a real threat to our whole constitutional existence by reason of the proven subversive Communist conspiracy to overthrow it by force and violence.
Mr. BENOFF. Absolutely. Oh, yes, sir. I had that in my statement. I sat down and I said, "Put down what you think." And I do want to join with the forcesMr. DOYLE. May I ask you one more question: Since you appeared before the committee before, you are adding this supplementary statement-in the interim has it come to you that anything that this committee could do or should do in connection with our hearings, public hearings, such as you appeared in before, that we did not do beforeI Is there any way we could make that sort of hearing more efficient and of an aid in any way against the Communist conspiracy? You have had several months to think it over.
Mr. BE orF. No, sir. I think the committee is doing a fine job. I think I can help because I think you see it is a frightening thing to appear in public. It is tough for people to appear in public, and I think that persons like myself who have been through this, wherever he finds anybody who is in a similar spot, and either can't make the break or has some doubts, or is being duped and doesn't recognize it, I think I can do a lot of good work.
Mr. Doyms. Then you feel the committee has done and is doing a good jobI
Mr. BF.orr. Wonderful.
Mr. Doym. That is all, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Areyou presently employed, Mr. Benoff?
Mr. BEoFF. No sir.
Mr. JACKSON. But your occupation is that of screen and radio writer I
Mr. Bzaoru. Yes, sir, and television.
Mr. JAcKsoN. In connection with the supplemental appearance of yourself, has any person made any promises orMr. B oFF. On no n iirMr. JACKSWN. This isa voluntary appearance in order to supplement your previous testimony ?
Mr. BzworF. Yes; I requested this and I appreciate being granted an opportunity.
Mr. JACKSON. May I say on behalf of the committee we are very glad to have the supplemental testimony. We appreciate your desire to clear this matter up entirely. Tho subcommittee appreciates your cooperation. Tsthere any reason why the witness should not be excused
Mr. TAvr.NSER. No.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you. You are excused.
Mr. Brown, will you raise your right hand, please? Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God!
Mr. BRowN. Ido.
Mr.JAcxwso. Be seated, please. 3508 CO)MUNIST AIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGLES AE TESTIMONY OF SOHN BROWN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, Z. B. TIETZ . Whatisyour namely
Mr. Tavw
Mr. BROWN. John Brown.
Mr. TVENNER. You are accompanied by counsel?
Mr. BROWN. Yes.
Mr. TAvExNR. Will you please giveyournamel
Mr. Twmi J. B. Tietz, Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVT.NEn. When and where wereyou born, Mr. Brown
Mr. BRoww. Yorkshire, England, April 4,1904.
Mr. TAvzNNER. When did you come to this country I
Mr. BRowN. 1915.
Mr. TAVENNER Are you a naturalized American citizen I
Mr. BRowN. Yes, sir, through my father's naturalization.
Mr. TAvENZR. When and where was he naturalized?
Mr. BRowN. 1923 New York City.
Mr. TAvNr.xE. What was your father's name?
Mr. BROWN. Julius.
Mr. TAv zrnm. What is your occupation, Mr. Brown?
Mr. BRowN. Actor.
Mr. TAVENNIR. Will you tell the committee, please, briefly what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. BROWN. I attended grade school in England, Australia, and New York City in the United States, and I think about one term of hih school, and, oh, a few weeks at night school.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your record of employment has been since 1941
Mr. BRowN. Since 1940 I have been a free-lance actor, working mostly in radio. I have done a few pictures, small parts, and a little television.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe more fully what your employment in the moving picture industry has been?
Mr. BROWN. Well, sir, it is a difficult thing to describe, since I am what is called a bit actor in pictures; called for whatever thing they happen to think I can do. Most bf my employment has been no more than a day or 2 days' duration. I
Mr. JACKSON. Extending over Jhat period of time, Mr. Brown?
Mr. BROWN. I came here in 1943, and I did my first picture work at that time, or in 1944.
Mr. Twrz. By here, you mean Los Angeles?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes.
Mr. TAvENNER. Will you describe more fully what your connection has been with the radio industry?
Mr. BROWN. In the radio industry I am also a free-lance actor. I have done a great deal more work in radio than pictures. I have played mostly comedy parts, as a straight man or comedian. I have also played dramatic roles in dramatic--I don't know whether you know the situation. An actor is called for practically everything that is going -on. Im New York, for instance, there are a great many so-calle-d soap operas, which I did a good deal of, and out here on the coast I have done mostly comedy shows. communwr AC1vrrIs iN TH LOS A maGLS AREA 8509 
Mr. TAvz Nr How long have you been engaged in that type of radio entertainment I
Mr. BROWN. I believe I began in 1934.
Mr. TAvENN. When did you come to Los Angeles I
Mr. Bnow2r. Late 1943; I think either very late in October or very late in November.
Mr. TAvWENNR. Prior to that time where did you reside I
Mr.BRowN. New York.
Mr. TAVENwxi. How were you employed at the time you left New York and came to Los Angeles?
Mr. BROWN. As a radio actor.
Mr. TAvENNRE. Mr. Brown, have you had the opportunity, either in New York or in Los Angeles, to observe any of the workings of the Communist Party?
Mr. BROWN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment, on the grounds that my answer might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAvENm. Were you at any time affiliated with the Communist Party in the city of New York?
Mr. BROWN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAvNNzRL Have you at any time been affiliated with the Communist Party in Los AngelesI
Mr. BRowN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TA R Are you now a member of the Communist PartyI
Mr. BRowN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. JACKsON. Mr. Doyle, any questions?
Mr. Donz. Are you a registered voter in the State of California?
Mr. BROWN. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you continuously registered as a voter in the State of California since you came here ?
Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.
Mr. Do-E. I don't question your right to raise the fifth amendment. I am a lawyer, too, I wish to say to counsel. But I am disappointed in your doing it, sir. I want to make that very clear to you. I don't criticize it, but I am disappointed. Because we are here as a subcommittee of your own Congress on a very difficult assignment We are trying to help uncover the subversive elements in our Nation. . I have just come back from Europe. I had been there 30 days. And again I find the best evidence we can get that there is a conspiracy over there emanating directly from the Soviet Union, and it is sulstantially the same as it is in your country and mine. I hope the time will come before you are much older, Mr. Brown, that with the advice of your counsel, you will feel the protection of your country, and to help the committee uncover whatever there is, if you know anything, about subversive conspiracy in our Nation. I think that is all Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JAcKsoN. DiA you have anything further?
Mr. TAvgNEmrl Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think I should ask the witness 1 or 2 more questions. Are you acquainted with a Mr. Houseley Stevenson, Jr.? 8510 COMMUNIST ACTIViES IN THS LOB ANUELS AREA 
Mr. BmowN. I decline to answer that.question on the same grounds.
Mr. l1AVY.NNFJI. Mir. Stevenson testified in an executive session, or nmtde a sworn statement. for use by this conuinitlee, under date of September 11, 1953, in which ho sftLes that lio was a member of a neighborhood group of the Conmnist Party in Now York City in 1930 or 1937 and hi identified you as a nember of that group of the Communist ilarty. 1 desire to give you anl opportunity to make nty explanation that may be in keeping with the facts regarding that testimony, or to deny it or to confirm it. Air. BrowN. Is that a question, sir?
Mr. 'rAVFNNEII. Ye. 
Mr. INowN. I decline to answer, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. ',AvENWNit. Are you acquainted with Mr. Robert Shayne Daweo
Mr. BrowN. I decline to answer, sir, onl tho sane grounds.
Mr. rAVENNrt. Mr. 1)atwe testified before this committee on the sante day, ellemilwir 11, 19153, 1m stilted that he had been a member of thie (onmumist Party in the cily of New YVork and identleild yel as having been a metmtlwr Co t he (Oommunist Party group of w;ich hie was a nenber. Ie further testifed that at that f ime you welt ativi inl r 11 prin1io cipallv, ond that later you lcame an imlmrtant supporting Ilayer with Pred Allen's show. I desire to give you the opportunity to make such explanation as the faets m11ay justify reg,-ditiug the testinmony of Mr. Shiiynm,, and to either deny or confirm this statement that you were a member of the (Counmnist Party.
Mr. Broww. If thua is a (luestion, I decline to answer it on the sWeI grounds. Air. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. Air. l)oyI.x. Ma I lisk you, were you it nenber of Fred Allen's show in New Yorlf
Mr. BROwN. Yes.
Mr. Doavv. VhOt period of time?
Mr. BRowN. Froin about 19.34 to 19.13.
Mr. DoyYL You were a menllber of the cast?
Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.
Mr. l)ovygx. And all that time was the show performing in New York City I
Mr. BROWN. No, sir; not all the time. We came to the coast twice for very short periods while Mr. Allen was making a moving picture.
Mr. Doyie. Ios Angelts?
Mr. BROWN. Los Angeles; yes.
Mr. Doyir. But you were with that show all during that period that you relate d
Mr. BRowN. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Is there any reason why the witness should not be excusedI
Mr. TAvENNF.R. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Very well. The witness is excused. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you GodI 
Mr. ALLAND. I do. COMMUNrST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA 3511 TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM L. ALLAND
Mr. TAvWENNr.R. What is your nano, please, sirl
Mr. ALLANS). William L. Alland, A-I-1-a-n-d.
Mr. 'I'AVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel, Mr. Alland I
Mr. ALAND. No sir.
Mr. 'I'ATNNFR. it is the practice of the committee to inform every wilem that ho has the right to counel-, and we give him an olportunity to have counsel present, with him if he desires.
Mr. AI.IJ.ANi. I don't feel I need voiinsel, siico I wish to speak freely and of my own conscience, so to speak.
Mr. 'I'AVENNP.1I. When and where were you born, Mr. Alland?
Mr. AL,AND. Dolinar, I)el.; March 4, 1916. Mir. 'i'AVSNNER. Where do you now rosidel
Mr. ALLAND. I reside in Canoga Park, Cilif. Mir. TAv.NNrR. How long have you resided in Californial
Mr. AL.LND. Since the end of 1939.
Mr. 'l'AVENNEI¢. Where did you reside prior to that time? Mir. AIJAND. Prior to that time I lived in New York. Before that in Blotinore, Md., where I was brought ns a young child fromt Delaware.
Mr. 'lWhensNn. Wheu did you leave Baltimore to take up your residence in Now York I I can't remember the into. I was, I think, 18 years
Mr. AUJI .N. old.
Mr. TAvr Nrit. And you lived continuously in New York intil yoe caneto Califoriin
Mr. ALLAND. Yes, sir. I went there to go on the stage; or try.
Mr. TAV:NNVR. WhIlt is ollr occupat ion?
Mr. A.AND. I have b2een for the last 3 years a motion-picture producer.
Mr. 'rAvPNNF.R. Will yon tell the committee at this point, please, what yoreducatinaml training has ieen?
Mr. Ar.rin. Well, I went partially through high school. I also, while in Now York, took various courses in the history of the American theater; courses in stage design, courses in acting, and all the various courses that oee should take if one is interested in the theater, in a full career in the theater.
Mr. T'AV.NNVR. You stated that for the past 8 years you have been a producer I
Mr. A,ANm. Yes.
Mr. 'TAVENN i. Moving-picture producer
Mr. ALANDn. Yes, sir.
Mr. TA%'FNNR. Will you tell the committee, please, just what your record of employment has been up to and including that period of time?
Mr. A,,AND. Well, in New York, after going to dramatic school and acting in sumnmer theater I joined the Mercury Theater, which is an acting group in Now York, professional group. I was employed as an actor and stage manager. This group also did radio shows, and I acted and helped produce those radio shows.
Mr. TA F NNPR. Will you describe those radio shows more fully I 3,,47-54---p,, 8-3 510 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOB ANGELES MFA 
Mr. AiLND. They were our entertainment& One of the most familiar ones was the "War of the Worlds" broadcast the frightening one. You probably remember that. Then this organization came to California. The head of it was Orson Welles. And we got a contract at RKO to make pictures. And I was taken along on a salary. We spent some time at RKO learning how to make movies, and this period resulted in our making the picture called Citizen Kane. After Citizen Kane we went back to New York to put on a play called Native Son. After Mr. Welles left first and went back and got it organized, when he got to the final staging, I was sent for and I was one of the stae managers of that production. We returned-I am not giving dates. Is that all rightI
Mr. TAvENxNR. I would like for you to give them approximately, if you can. Mir. AULAND. Well, Citizen Kane was in 1940. The trip to New York for Native Son was the winter of 1940-41. I returned to California in the spring of 1911. Now, these are approximate dates.
Mr. JAcKsom. To the best of your recollection.
Mr. Au N. N Yes. I might be quite off. I am very bad at dates. I am sorry. I returned to California in the spring of 1941, and I left the Mercury Theater shortly thereafter. I lelt after a disagreement with
Mr. Welles regarding salary. I thenl did odd jobs around the motion-picture business, little bits here, and collected unemployment insurance. I just sort of got by with odd jobs in the industry, until Pearl harbor. A few weeks after Pearl Harbor I went to New York and went to work for the Office of War Information. We did radio propaganda broadcasts to all the foreign countries, and I helped produce them, stage them. I didn't write them. I merely-I had nothing to do with them except to-most of these people were foreigners, didn't understand microphones, and I staged the shows, helped them ptit them on. I also developed my own program, which was athistory of jazz program which was beamed to our troops all over the world; which I am quite proud of. So this was in the year after Pearl Harbor. I worked for the Office of War Information for 6 or 7 months or so, and in August of that year I enlisted. I resigned to enlist in the Air Corps, and I became an aviation cadet and I was sent to Texas and spent a year training as a pilot. Then I was a combat pilot in the Pacific theater, and I was mustered out in August of 1945. I got back to California, and fi ly. tat the end of 1945 1 developed an idea for a radio program called'Doorway to Life, which was a dramatization of problems in child psychology. The attempt there was to help parents to understand how~to handle their children so as to prevent them from becoming neurotic and delinquent; which is relatively a new science. I didn't know anything about it when I got back but I met some neighbors who had a little child and it seemed to me t t t e a his hild improperly; never knew the differnc between right and wrong, and I read a couple of books by Gesell of Yale, and it opened up quite a thing, opened up my own COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA 3513 eyes to my own childhood, and I began to realize what my own problems were, and this interested me. And eventually we got to a psychoanalyst, child experts, and got them to cooperate, give us case histories which we dramatized and put on the air, and sold this show to Columbia Broadcasting System, and it was on the air for little over a year. Then the program went off the air. I had hopes that I could sell a few of these for motion-pictures films, and there was a delay. I think we did not have the right to sell these programs for films until 6 months after they were off the air, and so for a 6-month period I didn't do very much, just getting by--couldn't sell them. In March of 1946 I opened a model airplane store, hobby shop. Strange thing, I had always been interested in model airplanes and I built these radio-controlled jobs and, and actually was kind of psychological. I didn't seem to be able to find my way, and I retreated to childhood, playing with toys, what you might say it was. We submitted the show at the beginning of 1940 to CBS,and it took months to decide whether they wanted it or not. During this perio(l I opened up this model airplane shop, within the period from March through to around September 1946. At that time CBS said "We will buy the show and -o to work" which I closed the mode anyway, and we started by toen, barupt practicallyAnd shop, program. then were on, as I said, the program writing airidlane this continued through the end of 1947, somewhere in there. Then again a bleak period, waiting for the 0 monthis-t4hat is, when the 6 months were up we didn't sell the show to films as we had hoped to do. But I did manage to play the records of a couple of them for a producer at Universal, and lie was very impressed with them and said that while lie didn't feel it was the kind of thing suitable for his type of operation, lie did like the shows and he did like my work, and lie said, "How would you like to come to work for me as an assistant working with writers?' I accepted, but the job didn't materialize until March of 1950, I believe. And I worked as an assistant and began to bring in story ideas that they liked, and eventually was made a full producer. I think that's the story of my employment.
Mr. JACKSON. That date was when Mr Alland I
Mr. AU.AND. The date I became a full producer f
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. 
Mr. AIAND. About 3 years ago, November 1950 I would say. I was actually associate producer with Leonard Goldstein, really producing, but didn't get the credit, I would say, a full producer getting credit myself until 22 years, something like that, ago.
Mr. TAvENNF.. What are some of the principal pictures you have w received credits for as a producer
Mr. ALLAND. Well what you call the Lawless Breed, a western, based on the life of John Wesey Hardin. Also, a horror picture calledthe Black Castlei The Raiders, which is a western. Stand at Apache River, which is a western, and It Came From Outer Space, science fiction that was finally produced, the first 3-D picture at the studio. And I have just completed two others. One is sort of a horror picture, Black Lagoon. This is about a hypothetical monster in human form but with quills, who lives under the sea. 3514 COMMUMST ACrvIzS im T LOS ANGELES AREA And I have just completed another one called Johnny Dark, which is the story of road racing, which I think is going to be very good. y the way, it has a race in it from Canada to Mexico, across the whole breadth and width of the United States, on wide screen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Alland, information has come to the attention of the committee indicating that you are in a position to give the committee information reiarding activities of the Communist Party. My first question then is to ask you what opportunities you have had to observe Communist Party activities in New York and in Hollywood.
Mr. AuAxN. Well, in the New York phase of my life there may have been opportunities, but I was completely unaware, really, of politics. I was very much interested in the theater, and I really can tell you nothing about Communist activity in New York, because I was a youngster and very much in love with the theater. And I am very happy that I didn't know anything about it at that time. In California is where my first contacts with this organization began; during the making of Citizen Kane.
Mr. TAV NNER. That would have been about 1041 or 19421
Mr. ALLAND. 1940. Through the fact that I became engaged and married someone at that time who had been active in the Communist Party earlier, and I got my first sort of inkling about it. But I didn't personally engage in any activity of the Communist Party until after the war.
Mr. TAvFNNICR. Well, would you tell the committee what you observed of the activity of the Communist Party prior to the war and during the period that you were shooting the picture Citizen Kane?
Mr. ALtAwD. Well, during that period, as I said, my first wife, whom I met, took me around and introduced me to some people. I recall one person that she introduced me to at that time was (-).
Mr. TAvXNNzR. Let me ask you, did you join the Communist Party at that time?
Mr. AuAND. No, sir. T mentioned this man's name. I do not mean necessarily to identify him as a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. JAcKso . I wish, in the mentioning of any names, you would be very careful unless you very definitely can identify them as membervof the Communist Party, to our own knowledge. And your stiplation onMr.--will be note. rAL n. All right. The only thing of significance during that period was that I was taken to a school where courses, various course in Communist philosophy, Marxism, were being taught, wide open, downtown on the second floor of the building. I can't at the moment recall the address of the street. It is the same street that Angel's Flight is on, I believe and then the whole second floor of this building there were courses being taught. I attended a couple of these.
Mr. Doiu. A couple of the courses?
Mr. AL,w. Yes. These were being taught. I attended one course being t,,ught by a woman named Eva Shafron. 8Tb. person saved by thewitness was not satisfaetori Identifed as having bees a member 49 the Corrnuakt Party, and for that resom th. namewas deleted b -the con Mitte, COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3515 
Mr. JACKSON. Spell the name.
Mr. ALLNn. This was justMr. Winrt .R. S-h-a-f-r-o-n.
Mr. AL.AND. But I say this is just a short time before Pearl Harbor and wasn't pursuedlbeyont that point. Then, s I told vo, I went to New York and went to work, and subsequently enlisted in the Air Corps and went to Texas and then overseas. And then I returned to California. Now, with the exception of a couple of lectures that I attended at the so-called school, I engaged in no Communist activity, per se.
Mr. JACKSON. Were these individual lectures, or were they lecture courses?
Mr. AULAND. Lecture courses, classroom, large group of people attending.
Mr. JACKSON. You attended the entire courses or lectures in the course?
Mr. ALLAND. Lectures in the course. I forget. how many weeks the session was stipposed to continue, but; I only attended a couple of them, 2 or 3. I am trying to remember the name-it was absolutely elenientary courses. I recall the blackboard, the old illustration that the man who makes 50 pairs of shoes in a factory, he doesn't get back all the 50, he only gets back part of what he makes, and therefore he is being cheated.
Mr. TAVrFNNF.R. Do you know whether the name of the school was the Los A ngeles Labor School I
Mr.AxxAND. It could very well be, sir. I can't say for sure.
Mr. 'rAV1FNNFR. Was it through Communist Party associations that you attended that school ?
Mr. AmANn. Well, it was through riy first wife that I attended. She took some courses and invited me to take some and I readily took them; although, as I said, I found it difficult to stick at it ha and fast. Only attended a few of them.
Mr. TAVF.N NKU. When did you become a member of the Communist Party, if at all?
Mr. ALAxND. I became a member of the Communist Party-let's see, the exact date-I have been going through, trying to construct this in my mind. To the best of my recollection, in February or March of 19461 was included into a neighborhood branch.
Mr. TAvrN.r How were you employed at that timo
Mr. ArjAmn. At that time we were just opening this hobby shop. We submitted this radio show to CBS for their consideration, and while waiting I had opened this hobby shop.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you became a member of this Communist Party in 1946, were you assigned to a group or cell of the party I
Mr. ALtre. Yes.
Mr. TAVFXNER. By what name was the cell known I
Mr. AUAND. The Echo Park branch, which, however, was divided into smaller units of the rThho Park branch. I was in-I forget it. It was ven another name. Each of the various units of the Echo Park branch were given another name, and I was in one of the units of the Echo Park branch.
Mr. TAvENNF.FJ. What was the membership of the various units of he branch, and of the branch ? 3516 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. A.LAND. I would say the membership varied from 15 to 45 people. The entire branch could have been a very large number of people,as much as maybe 200 or 300, 1 imagine.
Mr. TAvwNNER. Did you ever hold a position in your group or cell of the party I
Mr. ALLANn. No official position, beyond the fact that I was asked1 to pick up literature at the bookstore and bring it to the meeting. We were all given assiginents, so to speak, to discuss particular i sues at the next meeting, read the paper or read such ndsuch an article in one of the Communist magazines and discuss it. and this kind of thing. But I never, to my recollection, held a further position than that.
Mr. TAVF.NNFR. Who were the leaders among the group?
Mr. ALIAND. In this neighborhood branch I have great difficulty in recalling the names. I am hoping, through some help, to get this down. But Virginia Mullen was chairman of this group for a time.
Mr. TAVENNFR. Mr. Chairman, this individual appeared as a witness before the committee and refused to answer material questions in reliance upon the fifth amendment. She was an actress.
Mr. AL AND. She was more than that. I think you should know that. You see, when I started the idea for this child-psychology program I developed it to a certain point myself. At this point my first wife, who I was living with at that time, said, "I know someone," and also at this point I was not in the party yet-but this I don't want to be mistaken. I knew the people. They were in and out. It was very friendly. She told me that she knew someone who had studied some child psychology, worked with children, been a nursery. schoolteacher and had some children of her own, and that she might be helpful. And I said fine, and she introduced me to Virginia Mullen. She supplied me with some technical information, certain source material that I needed, and having children of her own, which I didn't have it was very helpful in trying to dramatize these particular eases o# children, the habits of children, having a practice experience, and then you could apply the problem, and she was very helpful. And while I wrote the show, I did at the same time give her cocredit with me, and this Doorway to Life series was presented on the air, and presented as the writers were William Alland and Virginia Mullen. And it was a while after I started working with her on this show that I eventually went into her neighborhood branch.
Mr. TAVWNNzEr. Did she play any part in your-becoming a member of the Communist Party I
Mr. ALLAND. She certainly did. Although, as I said, you have to be willing, you know. It is very nice to say-and I think this is the important thing, been very difficult for me to face--I always have been tempted to say these people did it to me. They do. JutI think Americans must not be vulnerable. If you are vulnerable it is because ou haven't been thinking clearly or fully appreciating what your life nere is.
Mr. JACBSON. Did Miss Mullen suggest to you in so many words at the time extend an invitation to you, or offer the suggestion that you should be in the Communist Party?
Mr. ALjLAD. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. I judge that this was not only in one instance!
Mr. Au. ND. Oh, yes. COMMUNI T ACTIVITIES IN TIE LO ANGELER AREA 3517 
Mr. TAvFNNFR. duringg the pro-re.ss of your work with her did she at any time indicate to you the advisabilit y of coloring your production with any Communist Party prolagandt I
Mr. ALLrAN. Oh, yes. And let me say that I would have at that time, I think been amlenable to doing so myself. It so happened that it was a kind of show which is like medical--I don't know how you can take medicine anl inject propaganda into it. That is in terms of a diagnosis. 'I'hese ease hIstories were given to u.s by bona fide doctors and)sychoanalysts here, and the Psychoanalytical Society, which is the top and respected organization here, when the script was finished, it had to be submitted to them for their approval, because when these went on the air, coast to coast, it was CJS who insisted on this that it was with the full backing and approval of an important and bona ide medical organization, you see. So there wasn't the opportunity. But I would say, had there been, I certainly th.nk I would have bied.
Mr. TAVF.NNFR. Will you give us the names of other persons who were active in the work of your Communist Party group?
Mr. ArJ.AND. In the neighborhood branch, which is the first group that I was in, there was Ruth Myerson, who was my first wife; Virginia Mullen, and there was a man, r-s Bryant, and his wife.
Mr. ,JACK ON. )o you know what her name was, her first name?
Mr. ALLAND. I don't recall, sir. Then a woman named Anita, her last name is Hay.
Mr. ,JAcKSON. If possible, will you give the occupation orMr. AIJ.AND. Les Bryant was at that time a soap manufacturer, small soap manufacturer. He later became a small building contractor. Anita Hay was a housewife, and her husband was a cost controller in some foundry, I believe. I don't recall the particular place. As I said, the members of the branch at the moment are very hazy to tie, and I hope to, with Mr. Wheeler's help, go through this again. I do recall persons coming to this branch to give lectures and so on, and one was a man by the name of Paul Perlin.
Mr. TAVENNFR. Perlin was a witness before the committee and refused to answer pertinent questions, relying upon the fifth amendment. He was one of the back-lot workers in the motion-picture indtstrv.
Mr. ALLANt. This man, by the way, had been introduced to me by my wife before the war.
Mr. Doiusr. How many times did lie come, approximately?
Mr. ALLm. Before the war, sir?
Mr. Doyr,. Before your group-Perlin.
Mr. A,TAim. I would say several times.
Mr. DoYmr,. Five or sixI
Mr. ATT.AwNn. I would say that, yes, sir.
Mr. TAITNNF11. What was the nature of the appearance before your group?1
Mr. ALL. D.Well. he evidently occupied an important position in the party, because he would come and conduct a series of lectures on party lines, and he mainly kept the group straight on how to think.
Mr. DomuE. How many would attend these group meetings? 0518 coim SmuACTrVrms iN TH LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. AuLAiw. This branch, as I say, consisted, I would say, of about 20 to 25 people. But the attendance would vary from 10, 15, or 20 sometimes. These were weekly meetings held at private homes.
Mr. TAvNNE. Well you were giving us the names of persons who had appeared in the role of lecturers before your group.
Mr. -AuAi That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you continue, please
Mr. ALLAND. Mr. Perlin is the person that appeared as a lecturer. I don't recall others at the moment. Now, this is the most that I can recollect at the moment about this neighborhood branch.
Mr. TAvwzm. How long were you a member of the neighborhood branch?
Mr. ALT Am. For several months, from-well, as a matter of fact, from March of 1946 or the date that I was recruited, until the beginning of 1947. by this time the radio program was on the air Doorway to Life, and doing well. And at this time I was ordered to transfer to a radio group
Mr. TAVE2NNR. How didyou receive that direction?
Mr. ALLAN;D. I was told.
Mr. TAVENNR. By whom and under whatcircumstancesI
Mr. A AND. I think I was visited at home by Alvin Hammer, who, by the way, I had never attended any meetings with, but who visited me, speaking in the name of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVNNER. Do you know whether he was a functionary in the Communist Part I
Mr. ALLAND. assumed that he was, because, as I said, he came and told me that I should transfer to a radio branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to state for the record that Alvin Hammer was subpenaed to Washington to appear before the committee and refused to answer any question relating to his Communist Party, alleged Communist Party activities, relying upon the fifth amendment.
Mr. A AND. I would like to-I didn't read or hear the testimony in Washington, but I understand that Mr. Hammer was asked if he knew a Ruth Alland. I don't know if you recall thisMr. Doyz. Had he met her?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. She had lived with the Hammers while I was overseas and I had met them when I first came home, and we rented rigt across the street from them. r. TAVZNiNE. Was any reason assigned by Mr. Hammer as to why you should transfer to the radio group?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. He felt that I could work for the party more efficiently in the radio group and I could gain some understanding, perhaps of the radio writer in relation to the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNE.. Would you describe what he indicated your role should be?
Mr. AmAw. Well, he didn't go any further; in a sense, he didn't have to. I understood what he meant, you might say. However, I got briefed much more thoroughly, of course, after I transferred into the radio group, when I was given my education, so to speak.
Mr.TAvawxu. Would you expand on that, please, at this time, and tell the committeejust what your experiences were in the radio group of the Communist Party I COMM'CNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3519 31r. ALL,'D. Well, you must understand in terms of the kind of show I was doing, the Communist Party wishes to pin all failings of people, any kindof trouble a person might have, on capitalism, you see. If you break a leg, they figure that you should, by applying Marxist philosophy, you can blame capitalism of the Unite States because you broke your leg, because if the sidewalk wasn't mended properly this means that somebody was greedy for money, or something or other, and the whole tenor of the whole thing was to so control your thinking that you could at any time come to the conclusion that, directly or indirectly, the United States, the United States (overnment, and capitalism were responsible for all your troubles and all your problems. In this regard, the whole concept of psychology, the whole concept was that of a delinquent child could be delinquent because he wasn't brought up properly by his parents. That was wrong, frowned upon, that it had to be something wrong with the country for him to be a delinquent, you see. They therefore resisted very much this whole psychological approach. And, frankly, I don't understand why they didn't interfere with my show.
Mr. DoyrE. Who interfere?
Mr. ALLAND. I say I don't understand why they didn't.
Mr. DoYm. Who didn't?
Mr. ALri,?;N. The party, the leadership. I was always expecting them to crack down, but they for some reason never did. In any case, I can only conclude that they would have felt they would have trouble because niy material was completely documented,you know, all medical records, alnd they would have had a heck of a time, I believe.
Mr. DoYL.. How would they have cracked down on your show What could they have done with your show? You were the boss of it. You were the author of it. How could the Communists have done anything to your show? You were under a contract.
Mr. AIJTAn. By this, I mean that they could have ordered me to change it.
Mr. DoYLE. Well, you wouldn't have obeyed their orders. You were under contract. 
Mr. AIAND. I certainly wouldn't have. 
Mr. Doyu. What?
Mr. ALLAND. I certainly would not have obeyed them. But what I was saving, I often wondered why they didn't and, as I say, it is very possible that they realized that they, legally, they couldn't control me, and left well enough alone.
Mr. DOYLE. Were you in the party then I
Mr. ALLAND. Yes.
Mr. DoYLz. How much later on could they have bossed you and controlled you ?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, not-- certainly not during the-you see, the show, the form of the show was prepared and developed and submitted to CBS before I joined the party. While I was in the party is when CBS bought the show, and we were bound to a particular format, and nothing could be done.
Mr. Dons. Then there came a time in your party experience when the party could have controlled you in the show, didn't there?
Mr. ALLwre. No, sir. 81747-84--pt 8-4 362 S IN TEN O0=UNST ACTWMIV DN ANOGLU AEA 
Mr. Dom. Not on this show, but on a show I
Mr. AuAwN. Oh, after this show was over they could have. But time I went to work in the film industry I was already out of 20 thearty.
Mr.Donax I see. And the only reason you wouldn't have taken orders from the Communist Party in this show is because the format and all was agreed to with CBSI 
Mr. AmAxD. That is correct. 
Mr. Doym. You were under contract?
Mr. Amax. That is correct.
Mr. DomE. If you hadn't been under contract, you would have been glad to change the format if the party had told you so I
Mr. Azra.fi I supose so, yes, sir.
Mr. TAvINwEa. Do you know of any instances in which a script, either in radio or in the movies, was altered at the insistence of a member of the Communist Party, acting as a representative of the Communist Part
Mr. Au.ja Only by hearsay. I personally never had any direct personal knowledge of such. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the incident to which you refer? 
Mr. ALLAND. Well, it isn't a question of the incident. It is a question of constant discussion of the material on which writers were working. In this regard, I would say that the Communist writer working for films was always under the scrutiny of the party, and he was expected to check with his superiors as to what he was doing, make sure that he wasn't making any mistakes.
Mr. TAVENwNR. Are you speaking of superiors in the industry or superiors in the Communist Party?
Mr. ALLAND. Superiors in the Communist Party, and particularly the educational experts, so to speak. While I can't at the moment recall any specific story, I do know that the writer was under surveillance by the party as to his work, nnd nothing that could be construed as an antipropaganda would be tolerated, nothing that could be considered anti-Russian would be tolerated. To glorify, or not even to glorify, to attempt to show in a good light an American tycoon, for instance--by "tycoon" I mean a big-business man, big corporation-to show him ats being a gentleman or a kind mali, a liberal man, would have been considered taboo. Me.Dom . You mean that screenwriters who were members of the Communist Party, such as you, would take their script away from their place of emplo ment and submit it to Communist educational functionaries, and so forth How would they check it?
Mr. ALLAND. Let me say this, if they had been given an assignment of, let us say, a horror picture or western, in which there was no opportunity for--or where the studio did not require that the writer comment, in a sense-by "comment" I mean when you show a man a scene, acting in a particular way toward his employees, his family, other people-this is in a sense portraying the character of am1an. Now, say, if it was the kind of a script where these possibilities didn't exist, then there wasn't any discussion. But if, let us say, the script dealt with, in an way, with issues, attitudes, ideas that could be made to seem to be detrimental to the party, the writer COMMUNIST ACTMVTES IN TE LOS ANGELES AREA 3521 would certainly try to change them. And if he had trouble he would get help or try toget help.
Mr. DoML. Change them. But what I mean, Mr. Alland, would these Communist writers go to the point of taking their scripts away from the employer'a premises? 
Mr. ALLAND. Absolutely. 
Mr. DoYLE. And take them to dignitaries of the Communist Party and submit themI
Mr. AmLLAND. Absolutely. There is no rule against taking a script home. I take scripts home to work on many times.
Mr. DoiaE. There may not be any rule to taking them home, but when you Communist writers would take them away from your employer's premises to take them home, would you also take them and submit them to your Communist bosses? 
Mr. ALLAND. I am sure they do. 
Mr. DomE. Well, did you I
Mr. AMIA D. No, because, you see, I was not a member at the time I went to work in the film industry.
Mr. DoLLn. Why are you sure they would ?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, because I know of instances, although I cannot recall the specific material-you know, I would often hear Communist writers discussing the fact that he has a problem at the studio, they want him to say something which he feels would be detrimental to the party, or certain ideas they have; and having trouble with the producer trying to switch it, and what the heck can he do, and discussing it back and forth, on how to handle it.
Mr. JAcKson. Would this be discussed at a meeting, or would this be in the nature of a private discussion which you happened to be a party to orMr. ALLAND. Both. It could be the subject for informal discussion at a meeting or could be gone further into in a private discussion with a so-called expert.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you remember, if not specifically, generally, any such discussion of a script at the Communist Party meeting on the problems such as you have described I
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. But. as I say, I cannot recall the specific time and place. But I definitely recall such discussions. M. JACScON. Do you recall how they were resolved or what action was taken on them?
Mr. ALLAND. They were resolved in the writer figuring out a way of not saying what had been indicated in the script should be said. As you know, you start out with a story and from there you develop it into a screenplay. The producer buys a story or has it written, or thinks it up himself, andMr. JACKsoN. And dialogue is put on the framework of the plot?
Mr. ALLAND. That is correct. And in this transferral phase, you see, that tampering with can be done, because the stories are usually bought by the producer. They come from magazines They come from novels. Writers submit them. As far as original stories for the screen, I would say the Communist writers, over thc years, have been completely unsuccessful in selling them, because they are pretty obvious what they are the minute you read them. Nobody would buy them. So the place that they can do something is in the screenplay. 8522 COMMUMST ACIV ITI IN THME LOS ANGELES AREA I would say thisN in my observation, that *hat they have been able to do is not so much put Communist propaganda into films, but what they have been able to do is prevent, to a great degree, the expression of anti-Communist sentiment in films. This is the big thing.
Mr. TAwzNNEx. Were you familiar with what was known as a writers' clinic, composed of, exclusively of members of the Communist Party, in which the best Communist Party writers gave aid to others who were faced with the type of problems which you have mentioned?
Mr. ALTAND. I was fami iar with it in the sense that I had heard it discussed at meetings, and by members, that they had either gone to this clinic with a problem, or knew someone who had.
Mr. TAvrmau. Did you ever appear before the writers' clinic?
Mr. ALTAND. No, sir. No sir. As I said, I was in the party during the period of the writing of the radio show, and for most of a year thereafter.
Mr. TAVawxCra. When did you leave the Communist PartyI
Mr. ALL AD. I would like to explain that I drove a taxi for a year before, between the time I lost my radio show and went to work at Universal Studios. See, what happened was that after the radio show went off the air, and during this--well, after the radio show went off the air, shortly after I went to work and started driving a taxicab at nights, and along with that I also went and got some psychotherapy, psychoanalysis for myself, you see. Row, when I started my psychoanalysis, I was told, of course, that I couldn't attend party meetings any more. And I went-I had an analysis for the most part, for about a year. I started this analysis while I was still working, writing the radio show. I started it, really, because I was very disturbed about myself, and the whole relationship with the Communist Party, and what I saw and felt it was doing to me, and I had a deep feeling of guilt all the time; I never felt really that it was a part of me, felt that I was a criminal every moment.
Mr. TAvEYNEE. And it was that which caused you to seek the analysis?
Mr. AiAm. That is right That, plus my conflicting feelings about these people, my first wife and Mullen, who had great influence on m. And out of my analysis I divorced my first wife, and using it partly as an excuse not to go to meetings, you knbw, because of this analysis thing and I helped work out my personal problems within myself as a human being. And, you see, I drove this taxicab at nights, on the night shift. Now, eventually I finished my analysis and I was still driving a taxicab. Then they reached out to try to get me back. And I had a So theyarrang great excuse because T was workig nights,you se to have a couple of meetings a day especially for my benefit, which was January and February 1949. And I attended a couple and I just couldn't take it,just never came back.
Mr. Dn You say es ally for your benefit I
Mr. AwUAN. That is right.
Mr. Doria How many would attend those meetings that they arranged especially for your benefits
Mr. Atm. Oh, 10 to 12, or 4, 5, or 6. '
Mr. Dorm What time of day and when I COMMUNIST ACTIvTIES IN T LOs AsaELS ABeA 3523 
Mr. ALAND. Usually Saturday afternoon, and at some of these radio writers' houses.
Mr. Dorm Did they tell you why they were arranging these meetings especially for your beneit I
Mr. AwND. Because I said I couldn't come because I was working at night. And they said, "Well we'll fix it so you can come at daytime," and so they fixed it. And i went to a couple.
Mr. TAv NNER. I think it would be well at this point to tell the committee who were the members of this radio group, and in doing so, describe their positions and activity in the party as well as you can, and also which of them made the effort to have the meeting set at a time convenient to you, and made an effort to bring you back into the Communist Party.
Mr. ALLAND. Well, the radio branch consisted of Pauline Hopkins, Sam M|oore, Reuben Ship, Mike Davidson Virginia Mullen, Stanley Waxman, Jerry Fielding, Gene Stone, Jack and Mary Robinson, and for a very brief period, first couple-one meeting, actually; very first, or second one, that I attended in the radio branch, Ed Max, who they were having trouble with, because he wasn't coming to meetings and seemed to be losing interest. Also during this early period a woman named Judy Raymond, who subsequently I heard had left and had cooperated with the committeeMr. TAVENNER. Yes. I think I should state for the record that Judith Raymond has testified in executive session. Her testimony as yet has not been made public, but she has fully cooperated with the committee in answering questions.
Mr. ALLAND. A fellow named Hy Kraft, Lynn Whitney- a man by the name of Muni Diamond. Now, some of the people who came to these meetings for various reasons for lectures, checkups and so on, were Paul Jarico and John Howard iawson. These are all the names I recall at the moment, sir.
Mr. TAENNB. What effort was made to have you to return to becoming an active member?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, Paul Jarrico approached me.
Mr. TAvFxNER. Tell the committee about that, please.
Mr. ALLAND. He approached me and sympathized with the fact that I couldn't attend meetings because I was working, and said that he would see to it that arrangements wodd be made whereby I could attend.
Mr. Domu. Who was he at that timeI
Mr. AuANn. Paul Jarrico was a functionary. I don't know what his exact title was, but he was important. Oh, incidentally, I recall there was a man who visited all the Hollywood groups, a tall, thin man, who was sort of the-I forget his title, but he represented the downtown party; always checking about dues. The name I cannot recall at the moment. He was very important. He was the Hollywood section, what would be called organizer.
Mr. TAvw.-zm. John Stapp?
Mr. AwA D).S-t-a-p-p.
Mr. Donz. Was Paul Jarrico from the Los Angeles office I
Mr. AuxAND. No, he was from Hollywood, sir. 3524 COmwUNIST ACTIVITIES iN THi LOS AN GLES AREA 
Mr. Doym. When you said you have to be vulnerable--remember, a few minutes ago
Mr. AuAwD. Yes.
Mr. Domz. You said you have to be vulnerable. What did you mean by that, vulnerable to what How were you vulnerable, for instance I
Mr. ALAND. Well, I was vulnerable in the sense that I was an emotionally very disturbed person. I was a very lonely person. I married the first time purely because I was lonely, and not doing. any more intelligently than that, in a sense, in my particular case. I didn't enter any real conversion but primarily to go along with my wife and my friend and coworker Virginia Mullen, to be accepted, to not be outside, and I unfortunately did not have many friends, which is, you know--once I was in there you never do have any other friends.
Mr. Doymi Once you are in where?
Mr. ALLAND. In the party. You are just like you are walled off from the rest of society so that you really don't know what other people are thinking or feeling or how they behave. And after a certain point you forget people on the outside world, so to speak, and behave differently, and you begin to sort of think or fail to think in the same way. You think the same way these people do, and eventually you begin to take their standards of morality or immorality for your own, without realizing it. You begin to feel it, to misrepresent, under circumstances, is a virtue rather than an evil.
Mr. TAvExNNr. You become entirely dependent upon those who have become your new associates f
Mr. ALL ND. That is right. You get to the point where you sort of in a sense stop thinking for yourself and you look for the answers in the books and in the oracles of the party, the wise men of the party. The only thing it does-it did to me eventually-was that I just begin to feel smothered, and then, of course, I could go into the whole question of the things that were said and what was going on in the world, and it just got to the point where I couldn't make excuses; I couldn't find the answers in the books or in the mouthpieces of the party that I could deeply accept as the real cause of what was happening in the world.
Mr. Doriz. Thank you very much.
Mr. Au., u. I am sorry. I don't mean to be eloquent orMr. DomE. That is all right.
Mr. Au.AND. Another example of this, and I think this is the key, once they put this thing into your reasoning it is very hard to put the pieces back together, and that is this: This whole attempt is to prove to you that the Government of the United State" and the people of the United States are two separate things, and they, by an illogical logic, make you feel that your allegiance is to, somehow or other, the people but not the Government andit leads to the following conclusion: That since this Government aoes not represent the people, therefore you don't owe this Government any allegiance. You see?
Mr. DomLi. Why doesn't the American Government represent the American people? What basis do they have for that?
Mr. AuL .r. They have a long and involved theory having to do with the claim that-you see, they have a line, if you memorize and COMMUNIST ACTVIVITIES IN' THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3525 repeat it long enough you accept it which goes something like thisthat the Government is a moans of holding power by the ruling class. See? Therefore, since the people aren't the ruling clasw and the capitalists are the ruling class, the Government is the Government of the ruling class and, therefore, not of all the people. You see? Now, if you can accept this, your next step is to feel, well, you have no particular allegiance to the Government. The chink in this, of course, is the Government is duly elected by all the people and can be changed at any time, in terms of its personnel. As far as its particular structure, the Government of this country has changed, always changing its form. Of course, the basic concepts upon which has been founded this country have never changed and must never change, and they are, when you get out of this morass, in my opinion, the greatest precepts in the world; They are based upon Greek philosophy, Christianity. Talk about opportunities to express yourself, opportunities for the people to have their country whatever they want it is more pa-sible here than any place in the world; and this is the thing that they prevent you from ai-riving at. In my own case, of course, I will say that my elementary education was not a good one, and I feel deeply that part of the solution of this problem is that we must have a stronger educational system, particularly in the elementary schools. Most people don't go much further than high school, you know. By the time they get to high school they are pretty well formed, anyway, and it becomes pure theory, but the children should understand completely the tremendous flexibility and freedom of expression and opportunity that you have under our system of government. And somehow, looking back at my own elementary school education, it was pretty dry. I never did really get to develop a sense of patriotism and pride that I should have, and I feel that the whole emphasis in our elementary school system is not proper.
Mr. Doyi. Well, you were taught to salute the flag and your allegiarice to the flag. What more could you be taught? You were taught the stories about George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, and the founding of the Constitutional Convention, the Declaration of Independence--Mr. AIetND. What I feel is that I was taught that, but didn't observe it, and I feel this should be stressed more in schools, how this Government works, why it is your country, your Government--you know-the machinery whereby everybodyMr. DoYLE. You think that elementary school children would comprehend that?
Mr. ALLAND. I surely do. I sincerely do. It should be devised on a simple basis. I am very much interested in child education myself. It should be demonstrated in actual practice, you know what I mean. They should be educated; educators can devise means of bringing it home clearly, the opportunities for expression of changing of-by "changing"I don't mean of changing your Congressmen-of any idea you have in terms of what you feel a Government should do or not do. The machinery is there constantly for the full expression of the will of the people at all times. And this, I feel, should be brought out dramatically and forcefully.
Mr. DoYL. Manifestly, I didn't ask those questions because I dis. agreed with you, but I wanted to have you explain them. 8526 CONUUL)Nk ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. AjLAND. I see. And therefore, I feel it was because I didn't really understand this as thoroughly as I should have, the functions of how the United States Government, in relation to the people, how it opqrato, really operates. It was very easy to accept somebody saying, "Don't you see it, the government of one particular group of people agsbt the rest of the people," and bang that long enough to accept it. 1et me say this: I wanted to accept it as I explained to you. I was a very emotionally disturbed person. I wanted to belong some place. I wanted somebody to take me in and make me feel at home. I wasborn and raised in a little town, only a few thousand people, and I lived a very lonely childhood. I was a misfit, and as a misfit I was fair game. That isall Ican say. I will say that my analysis was just a tremendous help to me, and I can certainly nndrstand why the Commnist Party resists the idea of its people going to an analysis pretty much. You know, they don't want you to go.
Mr. TAVENNFR1. If I understand your views correctly, you feel it would be a great aid in the fight against communism if in early youth the opportunities for having a very sound and basic course in American history and studyMr.'ALLAD. how our Government works for all the people.
Mr. TAvzNNER. And the lives of great patriotic leaders in our country.
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. Well, now, I would say that these are gen, we get these, but by as much as I admired, and when I studied about them, they didn't really tell me how my Government was my Government, why it was may Government, what my responsibilities to it were, what, its responsibilities to me were, how it represented me every moment of my life, and how, through it, I could express myself freely all the time. I don't feel that this is brought out strong enough in elementary school. I feel that if I did understand I could not have gone for some of this material. And yet, I am not blaming the educational system. I say I was vulnerable because of my emotions and problems and compound this with the fact that I didn't really understand too well how the democratic system works, and I was fair game.
Mr. T10vrzwxr. Now, while a member of the radio group (lid you become acquainted with a person by the name of Mitchell LindemanI
Mr. AUAND. Yes. I went to a meeting at his house once.
Mr. TAvE-NER. A meeting of the Communist PartyI
Mr. ALAND. Yes. He was not in my group, but there was a special meeting called at his house, and I recall it had to do with the fact that the membership was complaining quite a bit that decisions were being made, things were taking place, and no one was asking the membership a darned thing about it, and the meeting was to placate the membership and assure them in the future, before decisions were made, they would perhaps be given an opportunity to discuss them.
Mr. TAvmwiat. Have vou identified as a member of that group a person by the name of Bill WolffI
Mr. AJvLAND. Oh, I didn't put him down. That is what I forgot. Bill Wolff. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3527 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of this group?
Mr. AwANDN. Yes.
Mr. TAVFNNER. Were you acquainted with Angela Clarke?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes; as a friend of Virginia Mullen. I do not recall being in meetings with her. I have to give that some thought.
Mr. TAVNNFit. Now, will you tell the committee, please, what the priilcipal activity was of this group of the Communist Party organized within the radio field?
Mr. ALAND. Its principal activity was attempting to control the Radio Writers Guild.
Mr. TAvyENNFjt. Vill you tell the committee how it endeavored to exercise that control?
Mr. ALTANn. Well, it. tried to influence the membership and the board to take stands against the Un-American Activities Committee.
Mr. I)oyi. You mean against the Un-American Activities Committee?
Mr. AL n. Un-American Activities Committee. That is what I said.
Mr. IJ)yra:. I 1eg your pardon.
Mr. AL,.Am. 'Thv wanted the Radio Writers Guild to try to get the Screen Writers Guild to be more lenient in its actions and attitudes toward the Communist nembers in the Screen Writers Guild. They tried to get its members in any way possible to censure and block the work of the Un-American Activities Committee, certainly, and to in any way possible aid and support those people who had been exposed'by tie committee. Now, the opportunities for them to do this were not always present, but there was the constant job, and the radio writers group was watching for every possible time, any possible opportunity to so influence it. Air. TAviNn. Did it attempt to control the election of the officials of the Radio Writers' Guild?
Mr. AILAND. Oh, certainly. 
Mr. TAIVENNFIR. Can you recall members of your Communist Party group who actually became officials in the Radio Writers' Guild as a result of the activities of your group?
Mr. AvT.A Well, Sami Moore was already an official when I went into the Radio Writers' group. Reuben Ship was an official, and there was one, I think, important election during the time I was in this group, and it was natually discussed who should be nominated, and so forth. And where they'didn't feel that the Communists could get elected, that he wasn't popular enough or whatever it may be, then it would be decided that such and such a person was progressive or liberal and could be handled if he were elected-you know, sympathetic, so to speak, and so an attempt would be made to elect him.
Mr. TAVENNFIR. Were you encouraged by members of the Communist Party to become active in mass organizations which we usually refer to as*Communist-front organizations?
Mr. ALLerr. Yes; we were encouraged, and I must say that I was always lax in this matter, and as I said before, in my own disturbance I never joined any of them. but I was always being urged to do so, and always promising that I would and I never got around to it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What particular mass organizations were the members of your group in the Communist Party urged to join? 3528 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIER I1 THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. AUAND. It seems to me the key one was the Arts, Scienceft, and Professions-is that it? Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions. This was the key one. I think at that time this was the main target.
Mr. TAVZNNEM. lave you engaged in any Communist Party activities, or affiliated in any way with any activities since your withdrawal from the party, as you described I
Mr. ALAND. No, sir. I must say this on the record, that I have seen some members since I have withdrawn, and I must say I even hired Virginia Mullen for a small part imna picture of mine, for 2 rasns-but I was sort of led to believe, I heard that she would, if she were called, be cooperative, and then she had 2 children and she was--how shall I put it.-she appealed to iy sympathy on that ground, that sie needed the work. Ro I gave her a day's work.
Mr. Doyiru. How long ago, approximatelyI
Mr. A j.AN. I would say a year, a year and a half ago.
Mr. Doyi. You said you understood front her that shie was cooperative with the committee?
Mr. AILAND. I understood front her that if site were subpenaed that she would be cooperative.
Mr. Dou. Virginia Mullen f
Mr. Avj.Aim. She didn't. even say this, but by inferences she led me to believe this, although, in nil honety, I have itoity that she appealed to me on the basis of needing a job, and I, having known her and having known she had two kids, I did give her one.
Mr. TAvv;NNER. Mr. Alland, you have made a very full statement as to your activities within the punrty, and your knowledge of what is going on, and the circumstances under which you left the party. Having taken the step to get out of the party, why is it. that you did not at some subsequent date advise this committee or some other (ov. ernment agency of your knowledge of the Commmist Party activitiesI
Mr. ALT 'NDV Well, sir, there were two reasons. I am not sure that they are justifiable. But I was perhaps the most concerned and reltetant to testify as to my relationships with my first wife, and as you can see, this ould-as'I hope you can see-it was very difficult for me, difficult for me in the sense that I have a young son by this first marriage. The second reason is perhaps even less legitimate and has to do with the human ego, because I think it is easier for a person to admit he is a thief than a fool, which I certainly was. I would like to thank this committee for giving me the opportunity to be of service to my country, and I hope the right to continue to be of service to it. Mi. Dorxz. Are you through with that?
Mr. AiLAxD. I would also say, this question has been asked by this committee many tines, and I have fought for my country as a combat pilot in World*War 11, and I will fight for my country at any time in the future, if necessary, and I am not interested in even knowing who that fight would be with.
Mr. TA, EzNrwn. Where did you serve as a pilot in the Armed Forces of the United States I
Mr. ALLvAD.-I servei1 in the Asiatic-Pacific theater.
Mr.TA%VE Were you a combat pilot?
Mr. AuAND. Yes, sir. I flew 56 missions as a combat pilot.
Mr. TAv-ExnN. Did you receive any special citations or recognition for your services asa pilot?
Mr. ALu..-D. Yes, sir. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TIIE 108 ANGELES AREA 3529 
Mr. 'T'AVFNNIrji. What were they?
Mr. ALIAND. I was diwcharg d as a first lieutenant, and at that time I had reived the following: Tie Asiatic-l'acili,: 'J'heater Ribboln, the battle star for this ribbon; the Now Guinea campaign, a battle star to this ribbon. For the P'hililpine .ailipaign, I received it Philippine Liberation Ribbon and one bait lo sar. I recAi ved t he Air Medal, and I revived the llronzo Star Medal with Ile following citation: "Ist Lt. William L. Alland, Air Corps, UnitedI States Army."
Mr. )ovzi. What inuiber were you I
Mr. AIANi. 0693724. For meritorious achievement In conneeti|o with milliary oi*rnilg, agnlnat the enemy In the southwest Paific area from Ihm Ut of NeIeilxr 1944 to the 8th of April 1145; although he was assigned an a homier ilot, Lleutviont Alland volunirlly aNsmupld the additional d ty of lKw'1ul uervit' offlctwr and men officer of his bombardment sluadron. lie edited and bronderiNt three news prograin and lecture parties for the benefit of oMeer and enlisted men, and maintained a well.stocked port exchange. iDuring one transfer of ulatlona of the group he uauned the responuibllity of building a new theater and providing dllna; and at the new camp tie squadron mnesmahll IK'rgonne. tnider hil sulervision nnintnlined the highest m1ninlrd of clearillnes; anil for dilles beyondl those regularly required of him, lieutenant Allind e ontribth(i immeamurably to the morale of tie members of his organization. Order of the Bronze Htar, 1258 Hrealquarters, Far Kant Air Force, 25th of June 148. 
Mr. Doma. Do you still maintain a Rlserve commission?
Mr. ArLANt). No. When I was (lischarged they asked me about if 1 wanted to he in the Reserve, and I said "Yes." And they told me they would get in touch with me, and they never did. Subsequently I id some investigation and I found actually they considered me too old, and I was probably not taken for that reason.
Mr. I)owms. I am sure we thank you, Mr. Allandl, for cooerating this morning with us, and we are naturally counting on men like you that have awakened to the fact that you do have a dluty to try to correct your mistakes, and hlp the country against the Communist conspiracy. We have depended very, very much on you men doing the fullest posible share of work, to not only make amends, but to get other people to do the same thing.
Mr. TAVr.NNER. I have another matter.
Mr. l)oyr. All right.
Mr. TA ENNER. I ill you tell the committee, please, on what basis youpaid dues or a.,ezssments to the Communist PartyI Ar.ALLN. Well, the neighborhood branch, it was a flat weekly or monthly dues, based upon your earnings. And in my case I think it was$1 a month. In the radio branch it was-there was an additional attempt to collect funds on an assessment basis. I don't recall the exact percentage. I do recall resisting very much. I do think I finally gave as high as $25 at a tine on an assessment basis.
Mr. TAwNNF.R. You do not recall at this time the percentages of your salary or earnings which you were expected to pay.
Mr. Aa . cannot recall ithe exact percentages. I am sorry. I just don't i-:nem);,r.
Mr. TAv NNT:v,I think thatis all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DonL.:. .iave you any suggestions to this committee of any method or any ways r ii Y.., by which we can receive the more prompt cooperation (if the ? i' 'can citizens who have made the 3530 COMMUNIST ACTIVITLEB IN THE LO ANGELES AREA same mistake you have made yet have never come forward voluntarily to help clean it up? bos any step occur to you which we could take I How can we reach more of you people ? Or is there anything we can do which would call forth a voluntary operation with the committee I
Mr. ALLAN6. Perhaps I don't understand your question, ,correctly, Congressman. MAr. DOYLE. Let me make this clear. You have answered Mr. Tavenner's question why you didn't-well, you, of course, were an acceptable exceptioni-but," generally speaking is there anything we could do as a committee-we announce over the radio, we put it in the newspapers and we put it in our reports. It is generally known, is it not, that we are ready to cooperate with yom men or women who want to come forwardvolntarily That isnderstood, is it not, in your professional field I
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. In this regard I will say that the Communist Party has done a very effective propaganda job in frightening people away. Mir. DomiL . Well, how do they frighten them away! What do they do or say I MSr. ALLAND. Well, they strike very hard at the prospect of econoinic distress. In this regard, I can think of worse things than having to look for another job, when it is a small price to pay forif, let us say, the employment was affected, it is a small price to pay for being accepted back into your country, in effect. It is a small price to pay for the right to feel like you have a country.
Mr. DoYLx. The other method of the Communist Party, that they are using to try to keep present members or former members from cooperating with this committee or with the FBI, or any Government agency, is what I
Mr. ALAND. The whole psychological field is, of course, on the basis that you are being an informer, a word which of course is a term which is a derogatory term. If one could somehow show them the difference between, in a sense, a paid professional informer, whether he is paid, which is a difference between a paid professional informer and an informer and an American citizen who, because of his own conscience, he is to come forward, he needs to come forward, and because in his mind he feels in this way he is helping his country.
Mr. Doy.. Why didn't you plead the fifth amendment?
Mr. ALLAND. Itis not the same thing. The Communists try to put the label "informer" on anyone who cooperates with this committee, and an American citizen coming before a duly constituted committee of Congress to give information is not an informer.
Mr. Don&, Now, help us to understand why you didn't plead the fifth amendment. That is what the Communist Party would have liked you to do; isn't it?
Mr. Au. ND. Of course.
Mr. Don. Why didn't you I
Mr. ALLAND. I didn't, because I feel it is necessary to aid this committee in the job of protecting our country fromx the Communist Party.
Mr. TAvrNNER. Was the subject discussed in any of your Communist Party meetings of what course of conduct should be followed in the COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3531 event any Communist Party member should subsequently be called as a witness before the Committee on Un-American Activities?
Mr. AtLAND. Yes. This was standard procedure: If you were subpenaed you should use the fifth amendment, of course. And, of course, there was always speculation on who you could depend on and who you couldn't.
Mr. DOYLE. Among the members I
Mr. AuLAND. That is correct.
Mr. Doywa. Depend upon them to do what?
Mr. ALLAND. To use the fifth amendment and not cooperate, of course. 
Mr. Don .,. You sy it was standard procedure. Whatdo you mean by that Do you mean it was frequently discussed at the frequent meetings?
Mr. ALLAND. Well, any time discussions of the Un-American Activities took place.
Mr. DoYLE,. Do you remember the televised meetings of the UnAmerican Activities Committee here in Los Angeles?
Mr. AIJAND. Yes, sir.
Mr. DoYL,. That was several months ago. Was it discussed in the cell of which you were a member?
Mr. ALm.ND. I wasn't in-you seeMr. DomnP,. You were not then a member?
Mr. ArLAN. I have not been a member since 1949, sir, end of 1949.
Mr. TAYENNER. Did any discussion take place in your Communist Party meetings of what action or attitude should be taken toward those members of the Communist Party who testified before the committee and divulged their former Conmunist Party membership
Mr. ALLAND. Well, of course. You weren't ever to look at them again. Their names were an anathema. They were cursed and hated with a violence such as you can't imagine.
Mr. DoyLE. Was it (liscussed as to whether or not the Communist Party treasury would pay attorneys' fees to represent any witness before our committee?
Mr. AmrNm. No. But the Communist Party did try to get individual members to solicit funis whenever and wherever they could, from any source possible, to give to their members for attorneys' fees.
Mr. Doma. For attorneys fees for the reason that they were subpenaed to appear before this committee?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes. 
Mr. DoYLE. For attorneys to be present with them before this committeel
Mr. ALLf.A,. Yes. And for c".-nsel prior to their appearance, between the time they were subpenaed and the time they appeared.
Mr. Doyix. And were these funds solicited (luring or at or in connection with any Communist Party meeting which you attended, for instance?
Mr. ALLAND. No, sir, because this was after my time, so to speak. But I do know because I was approached for funds.
Mr. DomEic. While you were a Communist?
Mr. AuAxD. No, afterward.
Mr. Domz. Even afterward?
Mr. A DA . Oh, yes. I was approached-you know, Communists never say die, even when you leave. They are just not ready to believe 3532 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELBS AREA that they still don't have some appeal to you. And unless you praotically slam the door in their faces and say, "Look"-slam the door in their faces, they keep coming back.
Mr. TAVENNXR. Are you aware of any organized effort by the Communist Party to discredit the testimony of witnesses who have testified before the Committee on Un-American Activities or other investigative boards regarding their experiences in the Communist Party?
Mr. Au.AR. I recall a pamphlet in which the case of Mr. Dmytryk was discussed-his character, his untrustworthiness, even while-he was in the party. The party now could see very clearly, and it was an attempt to prove that he was evil even when he was in the party. Yes, I have seen such a pamphlet.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any personal knowledge as to the identity of those who were responsible for that?
Mr. Au.AND. No, sir; I don't recall who wrote the pamphlet or what the name of the article was, or what was in it, even.
Mr. DOYLE. You mean it was put in print, attacking him after he testified before this committee?
Mr. ALLAND. Yes.
Mr. DoYLF. Was not put in print or campaigned against him until after he appeared before the committee; is that right I
Mr. ALLAND. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. DomE. Do you, Mr. Alland, have anything else you want to say?
Mr. AL.D. I am sorry. You know, I was in about 2 years, and through my connection, I mean I had earlier connections with people for quite a while and there is a lot one can say. It is very difficult to sum it up. It is too serious and too important to be able to sum it up easily. 'But the testimony before this committee over a period of time must and does, and must and will have a tremendous effect on all of I am sure. r. DoYmE. On behalf of the committee I want to invite you to continue helping us to protect our country against this Communist conspiracy.
Mr. AuLAD. I certainly will, sir.
Mr. Do m In that connection Mr.Aland, may I cordially thank you for your cooperation with the committee in this testimony you have given us.
Mr. ALLAND. Thank you, sir.
Mr. Doy. We certainly appreciate it. (Thereupon, at 12: 30 p. m.,the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at2 p. m.,same day.) A TERNOON SESION (At the hour of 2:15 p. in., of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, Representatives Donald L. Jackson and Clyde Doyle being present.)
Mr. JACKSON.. The subcommittee will be in order.
Mr. Tavenner, have you a witness I
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Milton Merlin, will you come forward. 6Edward DTaytryk refused to answer question before the committee in 1947. for this was cited, convicted, and served a jail sentence under contempt of Congress. On April 25, 1951 however he again was a witness before the committee, at which time he gave comprehensive teslmony regarding the Communist conspiracy and his part in it. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3533 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. ME.uRAN. I do.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you represented by counsel I
Mr. MRLiN. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you desire counsel?
Mr. M3ERuN. No, sir. TESTIMONY OF MILTON MERLIN
Mr. TAVFNNFIR. Will
Mr. MERIN. Milton you stateyour full name,_please I Merlin is the name, but I want to explain that that is the name tlt I have gone by privately and publicly since I graduated from college. Nfy legal name is Milton Sheppard Harrison. I only used my real name like that I think for my first marriage. In the school I used the name of my stepfather, Zuckerman. I was never legally adopted by him, and when Ileft for college I used the name Merlin.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born
Mr. MEwN. Los Angeles, March 12,1005.
Mr. TAVENNEIR. Do you appear here pursuant to a subpenaI
Mr. MERLIN. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you appear here voluntarily?
Mr. MERw. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNEln. What is your present residence?
Mr. MmiN. 445 North Croft Avenue, Los Angeles 48.
Mr. TAVFNNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. MERLIN. Writer, director, at the present time. It has been in recentyears radio and television; formerly film, formerly newspapers, publicity. I have been writing all my life, professional life.
Mr. TAVFNNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has consisted of?
Mr. MzRau. High school in Los Angeles, the first 2 years of college at what is now called UCLA; at the time it was the southern branch. T7hen I went to Berkeley and was graduated in 1925 cum laude. I majored in philology, and my side major was aesthetics.
Mr. TAVF.NNFR. How longhave you been engaged in your profession?
Mr. MEAfN. Well, when I was 15, when I was still in high school, I was once a press agent for the Orpheum. I did sports and other lines, sports work at the time, so actually it dates long before I was graduated. But from the time I left college, when I came back I got jobs on newspapers, as a matter of fact, the Santa Monica Outlook. And I have worked on magazines and on trade papers, and press agent.. So I would say from my graduation on I have off and on bee a free-lance writer, magazines, aories, books.
Mr. TAVENNZR. Will you pleai describe for the committee a little more in detail what your career has been as a writer?
Mr. Mz.RLTN. You mean specifically what I have done as a writer
Mr. TAVEN -FR. Yes.
Mr. Mzum. Well, beginning with-I suppose the entertainment industry is the most important, or did you want to go back beyond that? 3534 COMNtUNIST ACTIVITIES LN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAvMNXR. No. When did your work in the entertainment field begin I
Mr. MF.RT.I. Well, work in the entertainment industry, that started in 1934 at Paramount.
Mr. TAvRNNER. Will you begin with thatperiod?
Mr. MELIm. At Paramount-I went to Paramount-I am rather hazy on the exact dates. As I remember, it was 1934 to 1937, I think. I worked at Paramount mostly on the story board, what was then called the story board. I was assistant at different times to Ernst Lubitsch in a story capacity. I went from Patamount to Metro-Goldwyn-fayer in 1937 as assistant to Harry Rapf. I remained his assistant during the time I was at Metro, and transferred from being assistant producer actually to being a writer, because I was doing a good deal of writing and I got the credits. And I remained there as writer at Metro until 1939 or 1940, when I left Metro. As I recall it, I did some free-lance work-I don't have the date set down, but I entered radio approximately in 1940. 1 did one or two pictures in the time I was in radio, that is, I did jobs at Columbia, RKO. I collaborated on one screenplay with Alan Mowbray at Monogram. But I should say from 1940 on my professional activities were pretty well confined to radio. I started in on the Old Gold program, the show with Don Ameche years ago. The first show I contributed to reularly was Big Town. Later on I was the one who wrote for the Ginny Simms Show Everything for the Boys, which was the show starring Ronald Colman. For about 3 years I was the main one. I did Boston Blackie with Chester Morris for what I call the cycle of a year or two. I did Mr. President with Edward Arnold. I contributed first to this Hollywood Hotel Soldier Show, that it was a Camay show. I contributed to the Charles Bover Show for about 2 years. And I did a collaboration on the script for Halls of Ivy. The Halls of Ivy was a show starring Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Colman. During the last 7 or 8 months that it was on, I also directed Halls of Ivy. I also contributed scripts for the theater, which I don't remember, and I wrote in between many scripts for service shows. That is the professional activities since 1934. Prior to that time I had some connection with the industry in the sense of being a critic on a paper, and I continued that for some time, writing on some of the cultural activities in southern California for what was then called Daily Topics, published by the theater guild. My actual involvement in the industry dates from 1934 on.
Mr. TAvENNR. You are no doubt aware as a writer of the investigation that this committee has been conducting in the field of entertainment in Hollywood, with special emphasis upon the moving-picture field and the field of radio. The committee desires to know what knowledge, if any, you have regarding Communist Party activities in those fields. If you'have any luiowledge of Communist )?arty activities in those fields, we would be glad to hear from you.
Mr. Mrnxu. Well, my knowledge is based upon personal opinion and speculation and intuition. If you mean if I-I am not able to testify as to the affiliation of people in the industry. I can speak of COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3535 my own experiences, as personal opinion, personal interpretation, especially about the radio artists' guild, in which I was active as an officer, the screen writers' guild. I know what you know, much less than what you know. I mean I have been aware of the problem of the guild, and certainly I followed that with a good deal of interest.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you this question: Have you at any time been affiliated with the Communist Party movement yourself, and thus been in a position to speak of your own knowledge regarding Communist Party activities I
Mr. M u.uaN. No, sir, I have never been a member of the Communist Party, and so far as I know, I have never been a member, and this is a problem that has come day to day to me as to what is termed the caucus at guild meetings, when Communist policy is.determined. I have not, to my knowledge, been involved. I certainly have been, in the past, as I recall, at meetings with many of these people that have been named, that have appeared before your committee and have been hostile witnesses and some friendly witnesses, where they were present at those meetings that I attended. I was certainly not aware that they were called Communist fraction meetings or caucuses, so that whatever information I can impart is from an independent point of view of being invol d in activities that have since been described as being part of the ciub activity or guild activity which was influenced in any way by outside forces.
Mr. TAVENNER. What position did you hold in the radio writers' guild, that is, over what period of time?
Mr. MERLIN. Well, I was a member of the council, and I have to check the dates on this, too, from 1945 on. I was vice president in 1946 and again in 1949 and 1950. I was national president in 1951 and 1952, that is really 1952, the election was, so I was an officer of the guild during those years. I was not a charter member of the guild. I came in after it was formed, but during the period when it was involved in contract negotiations I served on the committee, negotiating committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has received considerable evidence regarding purposes of the Communist Party through its members in the radiothe writers' guild to influence the action of the guild and elect as officers of the guild members of the Communist Party. As an official of the guild during the period which you hsve mentioned, did you have any knowledge of this effort on the pert of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERlN. I certainly had no knowledge, no concrete knowledge. I would not deny that I had certain what I call suspicions or opinions about the political nature of the attachment of some members of the guild, and quite fairly, so far as I know-this is from my positionI have found out since, I mean talking with others who were members of the radio writers' guild itself, have told me some of the things that they talked about considerably. But from my position from the outset it seemed to me that the guild was able to maintain a nonpolitical position within the guild, as well as any union, and that is part, as you know, of the Authors' League of America regulation, that all activities of its affiliated guilds be nonpolitical. So we did not during those years until very recently, there was no great deviation of opinion on guild policy within te guild. We 853 CommuT ACrvITIES IN.THE LS ANGELES AREA didn't go through the samepattern of violence of convictions that the screen writers' guild did. Inasmuch as I was a member of the screen writers' guild at the time, as I remember, there was unanimity in the screen writers' guild during the period up to 1950 or 1952, because the forces of the guild were employed in getting contracts, working with the directors and the committee from the first in getting contracts with producers and packagers. The first time there was any awareness, so far as I know, of a, let us say, anti-Communist faction in the guild came in 1950. In the eastern region there was a group called We the Undersigned, which came out with an anti-Communist platform in a guild election, which was directed against the eastern officers, eastern election slate. Still in the western region there was no political issue. There was, I should say no guild awareness of the fact that there were Communists in the guild until your public hearings out here, when we were aware that you called several witnesses from the radio artists' guild to testify, and they refused to testify, and at that time it was established that there was a Communist cell in the radio writers' guild and there was, some electioneering and some activity on the part, oi the guild itself to combat this but until that time we didn't have, let us say, divisions within the guild forces.
Mr. Doym. I would like to have you identify the date. You just said "until that time."
Mr. MERLIN. Was it the last time when you called members of the radio artists' guild I
Mr. JACKSON. Last March. 
Mr. Mrzrrw. Last March you called several members of the radio writers' guild.
Mr. Domu. You mean March 1958?
Mr. MRzm. Was it 1953?
Mr. JAcO SoN. March 1953. 1952. Were you ever solicited by any person or persons to become a member of the Communist PartvI
Mr. Mna . No. In this I am again particularly considering my history, but I am sure you will want to bear with me, but later in connection with organizations which have been stated as front organizations-itis a long history, but I think it has a significant element that ties the question to myself over a period of years, and in recent years I have satisfied myself with an answer at one time. If you confine it to being approached, I suppose I would have felt sensitive to that.
Mr. JACKsoN. 
Mr. frtRmw. Did any person or persons who may have identified themselves to you as members of the Communist Party, to the best of your knowledge, take part in any such action as you have been discussing when you had knowledge of the fact that such person was actually a member of the Communist Party? That is right. The men who talked to me personally I didn't know. While I may have assumed that they were, I didn't ask them and they didn't: volunteer any information, and I must say I was surprised at some of the people *ho were revealed, because I regarded those people frankly as people like myself, who were interested in the same things.
Mr. JAmCsoN. Did you ever find yourself in a group meeting where those in attendance impressed you as being, if not actually members COMMNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3537 -of the Communist Party, at least as being in favor of and dedicated to the furtherance of Communist policy or Soviet policy?
Mr. MERLIN. That is a difficult question to answer. I don't remember any such meeting within the confines of the entertainment industry itself. I remember being, and it is very vague in my mind, many years ago in meetings that were so-called radical meetings, where we were talking about Marxism, on which there was a lot of talk but that is really past history, and they are not in the years that ? consider pertinent to the problem in Hollywood, the years when there obviously was a great growth of the Communist Party membership. But, of course, during my long history men did invite me to meetings. That is, I was not alarmed at it. But I must say that is during the pIod that I was aware that there was a great surge to the left wing. ;ut I must say I didn't know too much about it until the thirties and forties.
Mr. JACKSON. There were a lot of Communists around.
Mr. MERLIN. A lot of Communists around, but I think people didn't bother themselves about it.
Mr. JACKSON. Your testimony is then, Mr. Merlin, that you were never a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERLxN. That is right.
Mr. JACKSON. And that you were never solicited by any person to become a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERrN. That is right.
Mr. JACKSON. And that at no time did you attend a closed meeting of the Communist Party?
Mr. MERLiN. That is right. To my knowledge it was not a closed meeting, that I was aware that it was a closed meeting, I will put it that way. I mean if the people didn't identify themselves whom I met at a meeting.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, it is very unlikely that you would have been, if you were not known to be a member of the Communist Party, that you have been in any case at a closed meeting of the Communist Party. I don't recall of any incident of anybody testifying that anybody not a member was in a closed.meeting of the Communist Party. That is subject to correction, but I don't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. I think there are a few instances, Mr. Chairman, where it was understood that 1 or 2 individuals would be invited to such a meeting to see for themselves how the business of the meeting was conducted.
Mr. JACKSON. There may have been such instances.
Mr. TAVENNE. It was not the accepted practice.
Mr. murN. They were forewarned, in other words. On the subject of recruiting, I w-onder if I could bring out this point, that Silvia Richards, who appeared as a friendly witness before this committee, discussed that matter where she thought she remembered seeing m name on a paper at a routine recruiting session of the cell of which she was a member at that time in the radio writers' guild, my name am one of the names, along with others, was brought out for somebody to work on, and these are her words. . I testify that, in fact, if they worked upon me for that purpose, I was not aware of it. She also has the memory that apparently somebody said that he Would work on me, and mentioned the fact that that 358 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE -LOS ANGELES AR A was a tough problem or ticklish problem, or whatever that meant, and she pointed out whenever an individual's name was mentioned it was very natural-it was abnormal, as a matter of fact if they didn't have some background information; in other words, ii I had ever been a member ofthe Communist Party or had some connection with it, they would have been after that history before they worked on me. I don t know what that amounts to, but it seems to me coming from one who was apparently a member of the party, it was of significance to me, because I didn't know that I was discussed.
Mr. JACxsON. Who was assigned I
Mr. MrznuN. I asked Silvia, and she couldn't remember. She thinks--again, this is of significance-she thinks it was probably Sam Moore. Well, I know Sam Moore's history. Mr. Moore never approached me, never solicited me, and I worked very closely with him on the same committee that he was on.
Mr. JACKsoNr. Did you ever discuss your membership with any individualI
Mr. MEzitiN. Yes. I don't know whether you would call me a member or not. I directed 2 plays, 2 plays and 1 program for them in 1932 or 1933. Do you want to know the circumstances as I remember themI
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, I do, but let me ask you this: Were you a member of the John Reed Club I
Mr. MnELIN. Well, I don't know what membership meant. I can't remember being a member. I must have been a member if I was a director of the play.
Mr. JAcKsoN. What was the extent of your affiliation or connection with the John Reed Club?
Mr. MELIN. All I remember about the John Reed Club was that there was a lot of discussion. It would be extremely dim. I was extremely active in those days when I was not doing a regular play.
Mr. JTACKSON. When did that occur?
Mr. MaRurN. The dates?
Mr. JACKsoN. Yes. 
Mr. Mrazma. We put those on, we took over a little church in Hollywood and I think it was on for 2 nights and there were 2 plays, one of which was a segment of a play in later Paramount shows here in Los Angeles at the old Orange Grove Theater. My connection with the John Reed Club at that time was as director, but I must again say I was excited about the project of an experimental radical theater, we called it. I think this was the group that in New York favored such plays as Waiting for Lefty, which as you remember, was terribly exciting theatrically. In fact. I was all this time active in Santa Monica, in the Santa Monica Bay Musical Association, and also with plays that they put on, and publicity work, and I was around that. Incidentally, the John Reed Club itself at the time had practically no connection with Hollywood as such.
Mr. JACKSON. .Who would you say were the moving factors in the John Reed Club at that*time I
Mr. MzRuN. The only person I can remember, outside of the actors, there were a couple of actors in the play, one who is fairly well known as an actor in the movies, and another one that you know. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3539 
Mr. JACKSON. We *ill go off the record. (Discussion off the record.) 
Mr. JAcxsor. Back on the record, please.
Mr. MZRLTN. I have no memory of the administrative aspect. It was a pretty clubby kind of thing, in my mind, as I remember it. I got into it attending a session on poetry with some friends of mine, and all I remember is talking about poetry and meeting some poets. And then I remember directing the play tor the John Reed Club. Probably there was some talk about Marxism and revolutionary movement and that sort of thing, but it just seemed very dusty in those days.
Mr. Dom, . Meaning by that what revolutionary movement?
Mr. MERL N. That was a general term, so far as Iremember it, for practically anythingthat had changed, because we were discussing it in connection with surrealists in France and in connection with artists and poets, something which had to do with changes in literature and in music, but it also referred to the changes in the world because at that time is when the Soviet Union had not been recognized and there was a great deal of comment about it. I think they talked about Marxist theories; I know I did, I talked about that and I read a great deal about it.
Mr. DoYLe. When you say you did a great deal of talking about it, under what circumstances?
Mr. MzRLI. I mean, maybe I would be talking with other people about it. I don't mean I agreed with it or I accepted it, but it was one subject of discussion.
Mr. DoYLz. Where?
Mr. MzELN. Discussion with people with whom I talked about it.
Mr. Do m. I know, but from where did that talk about a revolution head?
Mr. MiNi. I am sorry, Congressman. I think I used the word "revolutionary" in a generic sense rather than in the sense of a revolu. tionary movement, in the special sense.
Mr.DoL. I know, but the Marxist theory of revolution in a politieal sense, you said there was a great deal of talk about the revolution. I was wondering where that headed from, if the members were talking about it, it spearheaded some place.
Mr. MzRr~x. I don't recall their talking about a revolution. They were talking about the revolutionary movement in art and literature and that sort of thing.
Mr. Donz. You made mention of Marxist theory.
Mr. Mica". Yes.
Mr. Doiv,. That was political?
Mr. MELiN. That was political.
Mr. Donz. Where did it come from I
Mr. Mvuair. As a matter of fact at the time I would not have been concerned about where that came #rom, because it didn't occur to me at that time this was anything sinister. This was something, incidntally I think is worth interest to the committee: At the time I went to coleg, this was never in the curriculum.
Mr. Dorm. What?
Mr. Mznzjx. Marx was never mentioned. I mean I went through philosophy and was a trained college graduate, and I hadn't even eard the name of this man come to my attention. That is partly one 8540 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES 114 THE LOS ANGCLICS AREA of the reasons that I became interested in it. I have another personal reason, an intellectual reason: i, having had a good dea.) of philosophy, was interested in later years in one of tile philosophers called Hegel. That is pertinent, might be of genuine interest to this committee. The philosophy was a rather elaborate philosophic system called idealistic dialectics. I heard that Marx had turned this upside down and made it dialectio inaterialisn, and I read him with a good deal of interest, of course, and particu. larly his philosophy, to know what it was, because it was my opinion then and still is that Marx cannot be regarded as a philosopher, and my opinion of him as an economist is very small. There is no prin. ciple that bears any relation to reality. That is the kind of discussion actually that I remember being en. gaged in. I remember when people would quote Marx to ine as gospel truth it would aplmll me, because this was the kind of thing that was pretty far from my immediate interest, because my interest was in the discussion of the things I was interested in.
Mr. DoyiLx. Because of your interest in such things., did you find yourself at any time a member of a group or involved in a group that was later identified as a Communist front? You understand my question I
Mr. MA:fhaN. Well, you understandidentified. I was certainly later identified with organizations which have been
Mr. Doyu.. What organizations?
Mr. MERtaN. Well, the [Ilolly wood] Anti-Nazi League, the Holly. wood Writers' Mobilizamml. fhowover, t want to point. out I don't find any continuity outside of myself. Other than that, I don't think any of those things sprung out of the John Reed Club, because I don't remember any of those people I knew in the John Reed Club.
Mr. Doyi.m. You understand my question. I don't know where they sprung from, but because of your interest in philosophy which y'ou have related, and the revolutionary movement in the arts and literature, or for any other reason, did you at any time find yourself at a later date as having been a member, or find yourself a member of any org nization which was later foun. to be a Communist front
Mr. M1KRIN. Well, it was partly for interest and partly, I think more importantly an interest in the causes that those organizations represented.
Mr. Doiw. It seems that I don't make my question clear to yon. Did you, because of any interest you had, whatever that interest was, find yourself at any time a member of R group which either at that time or later was found to be a part of the Communist front?
Mr. MrLIN. As I understand yotir question, I must have been, yes.
Mr. DoYtLz. What group?
Mr. MuaMN. The [Hollywood] Anti-Nazi Ueaguo and the [Hollywood Writers'] Mobilization.
Mr. DOYLeY. rhat is the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. MramIN. The Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. I think any writer of Hollywood, if he was going to contribute to the war effort would have to be a member of this according to the record, and I still think it did a fine job' and the [Hollywo7od] Anti-Nazi League, I think is not comparable, however, because my affiliation with the League of American Writers is in another capacity. It was not, as I remember, being active in this. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3541 
Mr. Don. -Were you a member of the Council of Arts and Sciences?
Mr. M a,;. Not that I remember. If I ever became a member of it, it was insignificant, one of your dollar membership..
Mr. Doyij. I know you wanted to ask him something.
Mr. 'T'A^vNNR. Yes. Weren't you instructing at a school that was sponsored by the League of American Writers I
Mr. Mluu. Yes, I was. I think this was 194:. I followed . I think, Orson Welles. I forget who it was before nl. I taught radio writing.
Mr. 'I'.xE:fNEIi. Yot were beginning to describe your work as in. struchor tt the radio school conducted by the lkeaguuo of American Writer's
Mr. AIIIN. Yes. This was ailts, So falr as I could estimate it, of some , who had done it little writing ail who were interested in radio. 1ie class was operated as a workshop, devoted to rtdio scripts for tio wir effort, ai scril)ts for tie 1.s Angeles fire department, (lefelst, inerchant inarine. Some of these people were professional writorJ. I have no particular meinory of the organization. I know it was identified as a Communist front. I must (tetify that there was nover any pressure on me as to what my instruction would be, what thle content was, from any outside source. I cannot remember anybody connected with this school, because ily relationship to tile people there was a personal one, aimd I don't rimnemnier being a member of the orgaiir4tion. If I was, I don't, remeniber its activities. M. I'AVY.NNrn. You told me in a general way you were familiar with (lhe testimony before the committee to th effet. that the Writers' Congrts held in October 1943 at tile University of California was sponsored by niombers of the Communist Party through the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. MAsmr ra. I read a good deal about it, and I am familiar with certain aspects of this congress. As a matter of fact, I think I was on some of the committees wien it was started, because I had boon in a course at UCIA, a year or-so before, and this wats to be a giguntio project. . wont to New York for the Si gnal Corps. I was an expert consultantl which ncans it screen prodcier there. I was associated, but I was in civilian capacity. I went to New York for a period of 3 or 4 months during the period when the groundwork, actually, of the congress was done. When I returned 1 forgot how long it was before the congress actually started, but i became a member of the conunittees preparing for it, and I remember being concerned because in the Writers' Congress there was not a sigle Paper on the novel or poetry, so they assigned them to me originally, because my interest. was in Iictures.
Mr. TAvExNNBR. Let me ask you this question: You are also famil. iar with tihe testimony, are you not, that the speakers who took part in this Writers' Congress were very largely selected by a committee of Communist Party members?
Mr. MmRLIN. No, I am not aware of that; I can only speak of my own experience on 1 or 2 of the committees where I was not aware of any outside complexion of speakers. As a matter of fact, the only committee I was most active in, where I presented my own paper, had 8542 eoMMaSr A nVMZS n? T=o LO ANOMG ARA Carleton Morse, who writes One Man's Family, and Ann Wolff, v'ho was then with him. I can't remember anybody else. . This Was really a panel committee p epiiing for the particular subject, which was, I think, the home front, whatever it was, what the civilian was doing for the war effort. I was nok aware' in my activity on this cop mttee of any instruction from outside as to content or policy or what not. I can only speak from my own experience. There is no question about the testimony which has been given, that a large number of the people on the committee of which I was a member were apparently members of the Comunist Party. You don't have to have large numbers that bear great influence. One member on a committee, as we found out, often can have tremendous influence.
Mr. TAvENzNr Did you at any time sign a Communist Party election petition I
Mr. MzULw. I don't recall any. The only petition that has been recTalled in my mind, although rdo not remember it, but I am told that I signed it, was in 1932, when I apparently signed a petition to put the Communist Party on the ballot. Now, I cannot remember the circumstances of signing it. All I can say is that if I did, if I signed it with any idea that this was incriminating or that I was in sympathy, blanket sympathy with the purposes of the Communist Party I must plead guilty and plead guilty on the ground of insanity. certainlyy if this problem would be presented today I would have t6--well, theoretically I would consider it, but practically I know I would not sign it, but theoretically I would probably debate with myself whether it is better to have the Communist Party on the ballot. My opinion is, based on my own experience, I would much rather have them identified than to have to dig down for them, because it is hard enough even when they are exp sed, to identify anybody as a Communist.
Mr. JACKsON. Mr. Merlin, do I understand you to say, in the light of what is happening in contemporary history, that the Communist Party is in any sense a political party
Mr. Muniu. Well, if we were to sit down and talk about it at some length, I probably would agree with you today, theoretically. I would say, however, practically to me it is like the term "freedom," Congressman, where it says freedom, not license. I mean there is licensA and there is freedom.
Mr. JACKsON. Of course, license is never the case in the Communist Party. The Communist principle seems to be to follow blindly the directives transmitted by a foreign power. In the general Communist political policy, now, that is what is called the practical policy.
Mr. MzRuN. We probably agree with each other.
Mr. JACKsON. What I wanted to inqiire about is your present feeling, with special emphasis on what is in our understandink the Communist Party of the United States and your present impression of what its activities consist, whether they consist of the activities of a political party such as we are used to, or whether'it is in fact nothing but an international conspiracy which seeks to overthrow all constitutional forms of government
Mr. MnwrN. Well, I am sure I ape. I will say this, it would probably be simpler all the way around if there could be a clear definition in everybodys mind what the Communist Party or membership in the Comimunist Party means. Ittwere established, I mean legally estab- oMM -sT ACTrITME IN T LOS ANGELES AREA 3543 wished, that membership in it would be conspiracy against the Government, I think it would probably disabuse a lot of people's minds that still are tempted by a lot of slogans. However there is the other problem which I think is a tremendous one, that iY it is driven underground completely, how does anybody have knowledge of what kind of subterfuge is being used, or what kind of dummy organizations? There are still an awful lot of people who may be interested in something that is, for the want of another word, we will call a progressive party that has stated political purposes that are sometimes not openly subversive. In what way can they detect that it is being influenced by the Communist Party I
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, that is a difficult question, the right of any legitimate political party. For instance, the Socialist Party in the United States, I disagree with it wholeheartedly, but I still respect the right. It is not engaged in conspiratorial activities. It asks the voters to vote for its candidates and makes speeches for them, and Part is beyond question. I the legitimate nature of the S as of being anything use Normadon't think anyone woulr izen. but a loyal America However, I do I think those circumstances and nditions obtain by the Com]nd.plan advoca in the things d e or the program munist Party. my i ing of that hort and saymy t itof'elatio.).to we wilf .Well,
Mr.
Mr signingt toda7. no id 1932 boaA the_ petitionin n nd a sis in back atmy private his 9 y,'think When I I an op .unity to .press give the restoft~ cun my mind Iihave a logi for it, t this their tho ght about it. I do not ign it todW y. ay. I does not ean I would sign imony Isthat yo were on p your IMy.ecol
Mr. TyNNED. with the Arts, b cbn somewh uncertain n a t ,yo >uncil lo. ood. nd Prof ions ( Scien that probout to me Fortuately, b n~k po Wellitt has Y
Mr. em.. tw_-, thl 9 didso inM19 Ruw. ably e otes tha kept o fileoi when it w pointeout to me radio television and e. my lecture because it was on t' ulject writer, and e notes are ay-I.iememer it, andJ emembe it fairly well, since 1 9. It was completel acad ie*discussio of a very important mat r to the acctr-and I.ucei . As I no remember, ques upon the discussion w confined to the transition of radio 'o to television. the conversion of ere that the A. S. P ew out of another It has been conten organization. %fr.Doma. Were you a member of the independent committee for the Arts Sciences and Professions InstituteI . Yes. I am glad I brought that with me. If I was a
Mr. ilr member I was a dollar member, giving up time for it. I don't remember being active in the organization, an at the end of the war I am sure I was not a member. I have made the statement several times, and I would like to repeat it, that I was not actively a member of a front organization after they were designated so by the Attorney General. No-w,I may be mistaken. There may be an overlapping of dates, but to my knowledge I was not. I disengaged myself, m other words, when they were so identified. 3544 COMMUNs AcrT'ITIEs N THE LOs AxosLEB AE Now, my appearance at this institute, as I say, was a routine one. I have made many such appearances, talking about television. In fact, I have been on the committee concerning television since 1944, at the time I appeared in 1946 or 1947, so that is absolutely correct. I also was invited to what was called a thought-control conference held at the Beverly Hills Hotel, to study thought policing, to answer what is your experience in thought control, what has been your experience with the Los Angeles Times. I have reviewed pictures for the Los Angeles Times since 1933, 20 years. Well, I told them, "I will be glad to speak to you about my knowledge about thought control." Well, I told the group in 2 minutes I didn't know what they considered thought control, that there had never been any pressure, nobody told me what to write, so I didn't have any difficulties with the gentlemen of the Los Angeles Times and was free at all times to give an honest opinion. Those are the only occasions I can remember where I appeared. I did appear in 1945 at UCLA at a meeting which was under the auspices of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, when the leader of the Phi Beta Kappa called me, and I said, "Why did you ask me to come?" And they said they didn't know anybody else that could give them the facts. I know it has been mentioned also, and I was there.
Mr. DoYL. Were you a delegate to the National Labor Conference for Peace held in Chicago in September 19491
Mr. MriN. No, I don't remember being in Chicago but one time.the only time I have been in Chicago has been between trains, maybe 4 or 5 times. The only time I stayed more than half a day inChicago was this last October.
Mr. JACKsON. Your answer is "No"; that you were not a delegate to that
Mr. MzRxn. I don't remember it at all. I don't know how I could have been, because I have not been in Chicago more than a half day except this last October.
Mr. Do mn Well, you might have been chosen a delegate without going Mg. Mmn . If I was chosen as a delegate, I was not aware of it, and I have no memory of it. Please understand, if I had been, I would be quite willing to testify.
Mr. TAVENNR. There has been considerable evidence received by the committee identifying members of the Radio Writers' Guild who were members of the Communist Party and active in the work of the Radio Writers' Guild. I want to review some of those names with you, and ask you whether or not any of those persons endeavored at any time to influence you in matters relating to guild work. Sam MooreI
Mr. Mnumx. Well, again I preface this by saying that during that time all the names that you mentioned might have endeavored to convince me of their point of view on guild policy. I would either agree or oppose it, but it was not on the basis of a political point of view. For instance, about Sam Moore, I worked on committees with him. I was national-,Rresidqnt and vice president, and worked with him on the guild negotiation of the contract. I worked with him then and I also disagreed with him very violently. coumiT ACr~iirTs sN THE LOS ANGLES AemA 8545 You mentioned Mr. Moore as being a Communist, and he certainly did speak very favorably about it, but in hindsight now I can find patterns appear that his interest-that it might have been an eneavor. In my looking back-I have been objective about this thing, now-I can look back and it seems to me I can see patterns whichI didn't see while we were engaged in it, but I can assure you I was fairly vigilant, particularly when I was national president, and very sensitive to this problem. I also, when I was not sure at any time, talked to my predecessors, and those who were the officers, about it. Mypeoyle tell me that he gave us a fine job, as anybody can see.
Mr. '1rAVENNER. Owen Vinson.
Mr. MERmN. I think I may have met the gentleman and been introduced to him once. The name is familiar. In fact, he was the former husband of Pauline Hopkins.
Mr. TAVENNER. Jack XobinsonI
Mr. Mmurw. I have known Jack Robinson as a member of the council for a number of years. He has certainly never brought undue influence to bear on me in any open fashion at all, just as another member of the council.
Mr. TAVENNEi. Marv Robinson, his wifeI
Mr. MERLIN. I knowher only as the wife of Jack Robinson. I don't think she was ever active in the guild councils, maybe a member of the guild. I don't recall her having-been active in the guild.
Mr. TA VENEa. William Alland?
Mr. MZmuN. I don't know him. Is he a radio writer, William AllandI
Mr. TA ENNER. Yes.
Mr. MERLN. I don't know him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Virginia MullenI
Mr. MERlIN. Virginia Mullen? Never heard of her.
Mr. TAVENNER. Reuben Ship?
Mr. MERLImN. Reuben Ship I know quite Ivell as a member of the council of the guild, and he was what I would call a revolutionary member of the council. I have been in conflict on guild policy with him on many points. But, again to distinguish between a position on guild policy and something which comes out of an outside instruction on policy is very difficult for me.
Mr. 'IAVENNER. Michael Davidson?
Mr. MERL N. Michael Davidson was secretary of the guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time that you were vice president?
Mr. MERuN. Yes, and national president too. And he was a very efficient secretary as a matter of fact. I know that he has been suspected of being a Communist or at least sympathetic to the Communists for a long time. I know as much about him as you do. Probably you know more than I do. I know that I have had tremendous differences of opinion with Davidson on guild policy and I will say this, in my capacity as an officer of the guild, when i put on pressure he would bow to my priority as an officer and he was a hired man. What his activities were outside of the guild I can't testify, because he never told me but he had tremendous interest in the guild. Mir. TAvz.NER. Gene Stone ?
Mr. M&RUN. Gene Stone was a member of the council for some time, and I think was treasurer of the guild. 3546 COMMUNIST ACTMTIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Pauline HopkinsI
Mr. MERLaN. Pauline Hopkins was a member of the council for many years, and formerly, I understand, was vice president of the guild in Chicago. She came from Chicago.
Mr. TAvzNNE. You were aware, were you not of the organized effort on the part of those persons whose names I have mentioned to support men for the positions that they occupied in the guild?
Mr. MzeJUJ. No sir, I was not. Mr. Wheeler asked me if the nominating committee had such members, and so far as I can determine, there was only one on all those nominating committees that have been under question by this committee. The rest are people that, so far as I know, have not been under question, and I will say this: When I ran for national office in 1951, it was the end of 1951 prior to my predecessor being opposed by "We the Undersigned" in New York they didn't oppose me. This was an anti-Communist group in Noew York. So I was not opposed by the anti-Communist group, and there was no request to withdraw that certainly I was aware of. I am sure that they would be supporting me today. But, you see, the guild elections, once the nomination has been made, have been pretty unanimous. I would say there have not been any great divisions of opinion by the officers of the guild, so far as I have been able to determine. The nominations were pretty well determined by the wishes of the members to put in people who could be experienced in negotiating contracts and committee work. There have been groups in the guild who said "We want this man or that man," but there were no divided election lists named, and there was no electioneering the way there was in the Screen Writers' Guild in two instances in the eastern region.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether any of the persons whose names I have mentioned opposed you for election to local office in the guild?
Mr. MERL . I don't recall. They never opposed me publicly. Privately I don't know what they aid. Publicly there was never any opposition to any members of the slate that was finally nominated.
Mr. DoLe. Who determined that slate?
Mr. ME.RIm. The membership. Two members of the 5-member nominating committee were appointed by the council, and the membership at large appoints the other 3.
Mr.IDonx. How many of those people that were on the committee that determined the slate were Communists?
Mr. MzRLrs. Of all the nominating committees that nominated me I only found one that has been before your committee as an unfriendly witness. To repeat what I said before, I don't think the membership of the guild at large had any awareness at all that there was any kind of Communist influence in the guild, if there was such, or that any of those people were Communists until the testimony before the committee. And there is also something I am sure you have been told. It was a traditional policy, you see, of the Authors' League of America and the Radio Writers' Guild, so that the natural tendency has been to resent any allegations or rumors from the outside, and I think that the appearance before the committee-I put in parenthetically that I have my own particular way to try to test the reaction of our members, as I collected it that after you had called witnesses here and they refused to testify on their possible connection with that COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3547 kind of people it was the obligation of the council member who had been called by the committee he can do whatever he wants before the commitee, but he should resign from office in response to popular opinion, in fact, did resign.
Mr. DoYn. What is your official position now with the guild ?
Mr. MERLIN. I have no position. I am a member of the guild. I ran for the council after my term of office for one reason only. As a matter of fact, I ran for the office of national president with some reluctance. I guess everybody likes to be elected. I was told I was the only person who could solve a very important friction which was arising in the work of the screenwriters, the screen and radio writers, and dramatists. You are probably aware of the fact there has been great dissension between the guilds on the subject of television. So I assumed that office, and, of course, naturally my effort, still there, that is, is to represent my guild. It is a very crucial thing, but you are no doubt familiar with that, and I say it is pertinent in many ways, and it might perhaps determine the activity. It was a very crucial thing. The Screen Writers' Guild and the Authors' League of America negotiated and we struck against the television producers. I was on the committee for the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. DoYLE. What was the approximate date?
Mr. MERLIN. This was in 1952. It happened in the summer of 1952, when I was out of town. When I was out of town this happened. I was on vacation. The Screen Writers' Guild had a general membership meeting and made a resolution not to support the strike. This was quite obvious to anybody that knew me and my stand about the period of the whole problem, was against my wishes, and when I first found out I returned with the full expectation of resigning, because there is no use to be head of a guild when everybody disagrees with you. I felt that the majority of the membershiip was not for the leadership, that the leadership of the guild had been opposed to this, and thus I was opposed to the council because I didn't have representation, which I did. And I lost my interest and I resigned. I didn't want even to have the position of representative for a particular reason. I was appointed in 1949 to be a member of the national television committee of the Authors' League of America by the then president of the Authors' League of America, and I retained this position, although I have been more or less indelicately asked to resign by the Radio Writers' Guild, but I have not, because I feel a greater responsibility within this committee under instructions of the Radio Writers' Guild Council. So thus again, also, I can conclude these negotiations with the TV Alliance, and I think, as a matter of fact, I am the only functional man on this committee. I don't know whether you want to go into this whole thing, but there is a tremendous problem within the Authors' League itself, which stems from the Radio Writers' Guild, and there are attempts being made to solve that. It is my opinion and I believe the opinion of the majority that the only way is to reorganize the guild and include the Screen Writers' Guild as an active part.
Mr. JACKsoN. The committee does not desire to go into the internal problems of labor unions or guilds. 3548
Mr. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TH fRIN. LO5 ANGELES AREA I realize that. I obviously am not entitled to give any information oi this except as it is pertinent to what I would call out. side influences, and I know that there have hen accusations nude in the Radio Writers' Guild, by guild members within the Radio Writers' Guild, and this has been tied up with other alh,gations that, as I have heard it said, when the communistt PartV failed to cagtlire tlo Screen Writers' Guild they went to the Radio Writers' (Guihfwith th thought that they might capture television. I think it is pertinent to see if there are any attempts toward capturing television.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, isn't it a fact that the ladii) Writers' Guild was represented at fraction mneetings--I haven't a very clear recollect ion so that we know whether or not the efforts were successful-tlhat those efrorts were ide andh that representatives of the Radio Writers' (Guild at least got broad, general directives and catlle to certain conclusions a1d an egrements within the fraction meetings as to what policies should be pursuedl That, 1 am ( llite coltident, is a matter of sworn testimony, so we do know that tIle effort was Made, and we are trying to deternline, of course, to whit extent those efforts wele successfiil, if at all. I think the record will show positively, so that we cannot be accused of Induly interfering in tile guild work or in any group or organization, but'we do know that the situation did obtain, and for that reason, to the extent necessary iin tile investigation of Communist inufii ration, we do feel that we have an obligation to go into tile guilds in soiiie cases as we have ia the past, in unions, where we have that definite information. Air. MENFRlIN. Well, I think, too in the light of the general statement made by what was thenl called the McCarran committee last year ill its lml)lislhed testimony, that the leadershi p) of the guild was Conmuunist dominated, t here shouh be sone clarification, because the guild has suffered tremendously and I personally have suffered tremendously. I was attempting to counterattack that last June as an officer in a Communist-dolninated union on the basis of the testimony presented to this committee. So far as f have been able to determine, there was testimony by three members of the Radio Writers' Guild that they were not Communists. So far as I have read the testimony, those were allegations and not thie kind of testimony that I have heard from this committee, where it has been demanded to be corroborated, so naturally the Radio Writers' Guild, under that kind of cloud in the public relations sense, has had a very tough problem. It has been, I think, reasoned that in good measure some of the actions taken by the Radio Writers' Guild were for such purposes. I testify in my own personal case here, as I tried to point out at the beginning that the Radio Writers' Guild, so far as my experience is concerned has confined itself, as well as any guild I know, to the problem at hand, that is, the securing of contracts up to the time when there was a great struggle for jurisdiction of TV. My interpretation of that is only a personal one and we have no evidence, but I would like to testify I was not aware of any outside policy which might have influenced the committee in any way it would not, have done otherwise. In other words, since its inception the Radio Writers' Guild has attempted to enter into contracts, and that has been the work of the guild. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN TUEIOAL ANGELES AREA 3,549 
Mr. Dow,. What year were you president of the Screen Writers' Guildl
Mr. Mf mrLN. Never the Screen Vriters' Guild, just the Radio Writers' Guild. I wns a inember of the .Screen Writers' uild.
Mr. Doir. Of the ]ladio Writers' Guild 1
Mr. M, rtJN. Of the Utndio Writers' Guild. Mfr. Jovs. Wht yearly
Mr. Mraii,.T-4. I was national president in 19.12. Actually the national president of the Radio Writers' Ouild is in a little different position, let us say, fthn the president of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. DoYrLE. Well, you had a council.
Mr. MrEJILI. No, f did not while in the national. 
Mr. )oyr,r,. A board of directors or something.
Mr. MEriI.JN. TJhere is a national council which is separated into three sections.
Mr. l)eov,r. But in Ihe ]lollvwod urea here, y0oii were what offIcer?
Mr. MEriN. I have been vice president, Buitas national president I didn't even have a seat on the council. I appeared but didn't have a seat on the council.
Mr. Doe,. I am hearing in mind one further thing I think was in your statement. You mide some reference to the fact, in the line of opinion, saying you kind of identified the.s, people trying to influence you or trying to inflence policy. 1 th ink you usel the word "identify," in other words, as coming to your attention they were trying to influence some committee on policies. You made it clear that they did not influence you, but at least the impression I have in my mind that I would like to clear up here was that you recognized there were some people in the group who were frying to influence policies, and while you didn't identify them as Commiiunists at that time, perhaps some of them later were identified as Communists. I wondered when you came on to flint realization.
Mr. MERLIN. Wel, I di say that, but I don't remember the context.
Mr. DoYLe. I am not, sure that I used the exact language, but I think that is substantially as you said, that there was a time in your awareness when you were aware of the fact that there were some members of the group that were trying to influence policy.
Mr. MimmN. Well, may I put it this wayI First, that influencing the policy as such that is, if a council member takes a position on a guild policy which is against my position, for instance, whether I agree with him, I cannot say that is something which is from the outside. You don't mean that.
Mr. Doy.. Oh, no.
Mr. MrRLIr. But I would mean we had some that had some ulterior motive in formulating the policy.
Mr. DOYLe. That is the purport of my question. I mean this: I can understand how you and other leaders of the group were not aware back in 1952 of the fact that some members, some active members in the group, were bringing in a policy that was determined outside of your own meetings. Now, I may be in error, but, as I recall,
Mr. Chairman, we have some testimony, or I am under the impression we have, that people were definitely holding caucuses.
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, we have.
Mr. DoyLm. And then bringing into the meetings in which you were either presiding as chairman or vice president, they were bringing 3550 COMMUNIST acTIvxnzs IN THE L4w ANGELzS aE in policies as a result of caucuses held outside of your meetings. That is as I recall the testimony we have before this committee, and that is what I am attempting to understand, why that didn't come under your observation.
Mr. NERN. Well, that is pretty hard to determine. I might explain this, for instanceMr. Doyn. The reason I am asking you that question, sir, putting it up to you that way, is that we are interested in knowing how far back those interests go. I am not inferring even that you were in any way part or parcel of it, you understand.
Mr. MRLx. I understand the question, and it is not only a pertinent question but it is a question I asked myself all the time, you know, why didn't I detect something here, and I still sayMr. JACKSON. Why didn't you detect it?
Mr. MERUN. And being vigilant, being sensitive to the problem, as I say, I would say in fact there have been actions taken-now, I don't know whether I was in favor or not, probably was not--on which certain persons who were members of the same group did have entirely violent disagreement on several policies and actions, I found policies whieh must have been directed from the outside, because I felt it would destroy the guild; then I certainly felt it was a terribly big problem, but we were in complete disagreement. So it is awfully hard for me to say what was the policy, even if it was dictated outside.
Mr. JACKSON. You were aware, at least, there were policies that were being dictated from the outside?
Mr. MEaN. Well, I certainly suspected that people were talking about those outside of, let us say, the councils. I was aware of it. I did not hear anything about what they talked about.
Mr. JACKSON. in one way or other, then, you logically would have been aware of the fact that they were talking about it in groups outside. I mean no more than this, in other words, that they were talking about it together at least in small groups, because they came in and acted in accord in small groups. And the purport of that assumption on my part is that you and other leaders were aware of the fact that there were decisions that were being made by small groups outside of your meetings, and that those decisions were projected into your meetings.
Mr. MERLRw. You see, as a part of this until the television problem came up, there wasn't any great basic difference, so that definitely our members were getting-as a matter of fact , I asked Silvia Richards this question, what would you do in that, still how could they recommend a policy when everything seemed to be the same way. In other words, we were getting the contract for our members, this was pretty true, because what point would there be in the Communist group being led astray, not in our favor when they took a firm stand against the network, too, because this was the position of the membership, you know.
Mr. JAiosow. My impression is that the Communist Party in Hollywood moved in ways other than work on contracts.
Mr. Mnuw. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. I won't pursue the question further, but can you tell me how far back you were aware of the fact that some decisions were being made outside of your own meetings ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3551 
Mr. MnRun. Well, the only time that I personally had a feeling, I should say this dates back toMr. JACKSON. By decisions, I mean decisions by people that you later, at least, came to recognize were-Mr. MERuN. Where I felt personally that there were reasons that were outside the guild interest that they should take this position was really actually around 1952.
Mr. JACKSON. 1952, the early part of the year?
Mr. MErI. No, it came in the middle of the year, and it was connected with a particular event in issue.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you very much.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Michael'Davidson has been identified in testimony before the committee as having been a member of the Communist Party cell organized within the Radio Writers' Guild. You have today told us that he was the executive secretary during the period when you were president and also vice president.
Mr. MERLIN. He was executive secretary of our western region. He was originally the executive secretary of the eastern region, and he was brought here, as I understand, because of the health of his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was he brought here?
Mr. MERIN. I think that is probably this date, gentlemen. Well, it was before, because he was head of the office, and it must have been around 1947 or 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does he hold a position now in the Radio Writers' Guild?
Mr. MrRLN. I understand that he resigned and his resignation was accepted. He resigned once, then he rescinded the resignation. I wasn't there when his change of heart was made. I accepted it, as a matter of fact, when I was there. I was not there in the interim period when he had returned, but I understand be did resign and is no longer in the guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did he resign?
Mr. MERL . I wasn't present, but it was told to me afterward at a membership meeting, I guess it was in September or October.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of 1953?
Mr. MERLiN. 1953. There had just been an election of the guild.
Mr. TAvENER. During the period when you were president or vice president of the guild, was Mr. Aubrey Finn connected with the organization?
Mr. MERLIN. He was counsel for the western region.
Mr. TAVENNER. He appeared as a witness before this committee and refused to answer questions, relying upon the fifth amendment.
Mr. MERT N. So 1 understand.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is he connected at this time with the guild?
Mr. MEPuw. I know nothing of that. I don't know whether he is or not.. I have discussed this issue with certain members of the guild, and I don't know whether any action has been taken, because an election was just held and there is a new council, and it is for the council to take action.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether any of the other persons whose names I mentioned during the course of your examination as having been identified as Communist Party members are still members of the council of the guild? 3552 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIF8 IN THE LOS ANOELES AREA 
Mr. MERI N. There is only one that I know of, and I understand she was elected again during this last election for only one term, which means less votes. That is Pauline Ilopkins. As it matter of fact, in the two elections which have been held since this information has become familiar to the guild membership, she is the only one of all of those that has been returned to oflico. My only exla nation is that she is a widow. 1 don't know why it is. All the others, so far as I know, itre people who have not been identilied as Commnunists.
Mr. TA NNER. ]lave you engaged in foreign travel I
Mr. MAimui. No. To Mexico. I have been to Tijuana, if that is Mexico.
Mr. TAVENNFR. In askiiig you the questions which have been propounded to you, have we subst4iltiftlly covered the matters that you desired to bring to the attention of the committee I
Mr. MLIN. Yes. I talk too rapidly, you Fay. For tit I am sorry, and if I seeim to have been overeager to discuss matters of the guihl itself, please believe me for the record 1 am not entitled to discUs guild policies as suel, except where it is attendant to the problem at hand, and anything [ say is based only on personal opinion and experience and since Ido have a rather spectacular experience here, personally I find that I nust draw certain conchsions, and for the purpose of testimony I can testify to that identification of anybody with what I felt harlned anybody. As a matter of fact, my purpose in bringing this iu) is that I would like to forestall what has been a question to me which has been to my personal concern to me and my profession, and as a citizen, that is the need to prove my innocence, and also have a tinie getting a job. You probably know about the confused situation in the television and radio industry, where even the mention of a name in connection with such means that you are lost and you don't know what to do about it. I ask the parties concerned to relieve other people of responsibility, but this means nothing to them. So ihe reason I am down here is, one, personal, and the other is to be of any assistance I can be to you to help in something that I think is a thing that is needed and that will be of benefit in my success and additionally for the guild. There is a personal reason for my being here, too.
Mr. TAVENNF.R. In your opinion would the Radio Writers' Guild endorse for an important position or any position in its organization a person known to be a member of the Communist Party I
Mr. MEnaN. I think it would be impossible today. I think the conclusions of this last election here--I don't know what happened in the East, but in the council, present council I think there are members that are pretty well known as being anti-Communist.
Mr. TAVENNzR. Is an effort being made within your guild to remove from positions of leadership members or persons who have been shown to be members of the Communist Party I
Mr. MrmtrN. Yes. This has been rather informal, and for certain purposes there is a great division of opinion between, I think wellmeaning members whether this should be made a big issue or whether it can be done effectively, as I think it has been done. I myself have talked with people on the subject, and, as a matter of fact, it was antici. COMMUNISr ACTIVITIES IN THI, LOS ANGELES AREA 3553 pated, as a matter of fact, in the last election that if there was any great problem there would be electioneering based on a program.
Mr. TAvrNNEw . This committee during its investigation has indiall organizations concated itsgreat interest in making availa ble cerned the Communist Party membership of eadersi its field, based on its view that it is a very important field and one in which the Coin( propjlgnnda activities designedd Intinist., Iwcalse of their tactics and against our Government, should not be permitted to go unnoticed. The committee would like to know to what extent those efforts have been productive of results in your field, if you know.
Mr. MERLIN. Well I think I have indicated that before, and that is inasmuch as I do know that with the revelation made before this committee on testimony, direct testimony, that there was a radio cell in the Radio Writers' Guild in which certain people were named, that those people did not testify, were unfriendly witnesses, there is no question that this (lid affect people. I know, because I have had our nniembers call me who were appalled, who were shocked and terribly concerned. I think it was a good indication of the membership it,self. There is no question tremendous good has been done. Radio writers are no(different front anybody else. When you do have a leadership which seems to be doing a good job and is effective, you don't question it. They were doing a fo ob, so there was no question of the aflfition of t iose people, and until that became public knowledge it was not an issue, and after that again we see the composition of the council such as now there is a great change. And as I also know, there has been talk and actual anti-Communist activity which was never had in the western region. I couldn't tell you about the East.
Mr. TAVENNFji. You recognize that you are a part of a very sensitive field.
Mr. MiaLItN. I certainly do.
Mr. TAvENN:R. And therefore the responsibility upon the leaders in that field is correspondingly greater.
Mr. MULIN. I certainly do sir. M r. DOYLe. Are we to conclude from your answer to Mr. Tavenner just before this answer that the feeling of the membership was or is that the leaders are doing a good job for you on contracts, that the fact that they may be Communist is immaterial I
Mr. M.ELIwN. Well, I wouldn't put it that way. It didn't Xcur to them.
Mr. Doym. Is that too strong, I mean the way I put itI
Mr. MERINi. Well, I don't think it is a fair question, because there was no such view at the time. Today I would say-I will put it this way: If officers were negotiating for a contract and it was established that one of the negotiators was a member of the Communist Party, I imagine there would be tremendous activity within the guild to do something about it. I say today
Mr. DoYLE. Of course, the ob active of my question was, I think clearly evident. In other words, I would -hope that no group oi patriotic Americans would put their success ahead of their country's interests.
Mr. Mmux. That is true.
Mr. DonL. I don't mean to insult you or your group by putting it that way, but I am asking you that so it can be clear m my mind, 3554 boMUsT ACrVITIES m TH 'LOS ANGELES ARA because I wouldn't want to think, sir, the Radio Writers' Guild were puttin their own interest in their contracts ahead ofMr. MrVmau. Oh, no.
Mr. DoyLE. Knowing that they had known Communists as the leaders.
Mr. MnLN. Well, you must have misunderstood some statement here.
Mr. Dom. I am glad I misunderstood.
Mr. MFmnuN. Because what I meant by that was what I said, there was no question of the membership of the allegiance of its leadership, because it seemed to be doing a good job of representing them effectively. If the issue had occurredtbefore, if it had been publicly known that important members of the leadership were Communists, I am sure there would have been activity within the guild long before this.
Mr. Donz. You mean activity to put them out of the guild?
Mr. MmELIN. That is what happened, for instance, in the Screen Writers' Guild and other unions where there is an anti-Communist group.
Mr. Dora I see. I am glad you explained that.
Mr. MErLIN. It came late because the issues which split the guild came late. It will put it that way, because I don't want you to misunderstand. I think the loyalty of the members of the Radio Writers' Guild is the same as any other group of people.
Mr. Doym. I am with you on that, and that is why I wanted you to clarify it.
Mr. Mnuw. And the only responsibility I could charge in that would be to persons such as myself, who have a major responsibility by being an officer of the guild, and in leadership, of not only being officers but of thinking correctly, as I think we are, and the only explanation I can make is that I could not detect to my own satisfaction how my policy was detrimental to the country or to the guild, being aware of it.
Mr. Doria Apparently then what I say and what Mr. Tavenner said and what your testimony showed today is that this Radio Writers' Guild occupies such a sensitive position in our national security that you have got to keep your eyes open all the time on your leadership, don't you V
Mr. MEEtIN. Well, that is true, but, in other words, too-Mr. DosL. And since we have the question of allegiance you have to be aware of the possibility of their divided allegiance, being extremely careful.
Mr. MERLiN. Being extremely careful. This is a problem of the members is not only a problem of certain men but one for the general membership of the guild which is aware of this problem, what it knows about it. s I say, it is late because the necessity for it came late. It took some time to start it, didn't have what happened in the Screen Writers' Guild at all.
Mr. DoYz. Apparently the necessity existed, but certain responsible men were not aware of it.
Mr. MnrnI. No. -With legal problems in conferences in there we wouldn't have anything to argue about, in general, as to the integrity of your leadership and membership, up until recent years. Then another problem came in, and for some time even that problem could be described as a problem which everybody else had, because COMMUNIST AcTvMTIES IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA 3555 the conversion of the radio business in television had created contention in all guilds, there had been peace between the actors and every. body else. You couldn't say because a group imposed a certain policy it was communistic. I have heard people term this other union as Communist. This writers' group have been violently against this since they have talked about it with the charge this was a Communist conspiracy. I don't know.
Mr. DOYLE. At any rate, you shouldn't let your group be caught again off balance.
Mr. MmuN. There is no question about it, and I am certain we will never be caught again. And to my mind the Radio Writers' Guild has been tremendously weakened of late because we have a loss of income, people going over to television, and also the fact that a rival union was set up outside of the Authors' League. So it has its own internal problems, and I am sure it will never be taken in again by anybody that they can identify as such.
Mr. DoysE You say that you at no time have been affiliated in any way with the Communist PartyI
Mr. MERix. Not to my knowledge in any manner at all. IncidentallyMr. Doym. Why did you limit your answer?
Mr. MmnuN. Let me say thisMr. DOYLE. Wait just a minute. Why did you limit your answer by saying "within my knowledge" I
Mr. M-ilu. Well that is, I guess, a rhetorical expression. What I mean is you asked before, you mentioned before about so-called closed meetings, about having sat at a progressive fraction meeting or thingslike that. To my knowledge I would say that I can't identify such. If that is called affiliation, then I certainly was not. I am sorry. It was a rhetorical tag which I put to myself often for this difficulty, that being a member of the committee, when you read the paper you found out there were some of them were called before the committee and refused to testify. Incidentally, I wonder if I may add this, just for the record: It has been brought to my attention that you have on one of these lists an agency in the name of Milton Meltzer. I read articles in the People's World, one where he talked against the movie Gone with the Wind, and I think they discouraged him. I want to state I am not now or never will be with Milton Meltzer. He was not out at Paramount and has not been there since months before the book was published. I tried to get Paramount to make it, so just as soon as Selznick made it I had no reason to deny it, but since that has been brought up I wondered whether that might come to your attention in some manner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. Doz. I have no questions.
Mr. MnLIx. I want also to say this, to give you my personal reasons for coming. When this attack and counterattack happened, I didn't know where to go. I asked who I could talk to, and I called Mr. Wheeler. Mr. Wheeler came over within a week or so, and I want to say I appreciate the courtesy with which he treated me, and as a matter of fact, he indicated at the time that you were not looking for me to question. That is something I want in the record here.
Mr. DoYLE. You feel that the function of the committee in your case is helpful. 3556 COMMUN-IST ACVITIS M TM LOS ANGELS AREA 
Mr. MERLtN. Yea, sir. I asked the committee to at least put me on to testify regarding that, on the desire of affiliation and to [)ring nat. tes to your attention as I have found them in mny knowledge and my experience that may be of help to your investlat ion.
Mr. TAVNNNFI. Think the record, Mr. Chairman, should also show that this committee cannot be engaged in the work of constituting a forum for people who have been criticized to come before it. However, in this instance there has been a great deal of testimony before this committee relating to the Radio Writers' Guild, in which this witness held a very important position, and therefore it would be in keeping with the committee's procedure to grant his requet to come before the committee. Now, off the record. (Discussion off the record.)
Mr. IDeyur. For the record, we will relat Mr. 'ravonuer's statement by saying, of course, we would have to take the committee too many places in the Nation, and we just have the physical inability to make ourselves available all over the Nation. Air. MERLIN. I realize that.
Mr. Dovi.z. I want to invite you, sir, in your very sensitive Imsition, in your own distinguished self fn your own'professioiial capacity, with. out inferring that you have heen-may I put it this way, without inferring that you hae been knowingly'lax, I want to lI'vite you to be vigorous, with your eyes open, and active to protect this country against these underground termites that are trying to dmtrov our Nation by force anti violence. The country needs men like you on the job with'their eyes open.
Mr. MlRUaN. "Alsoif T may say this for the record, I think that men msch as men who have been in as close association with those people as I are better equipped to retognive them in the future. I htve no regrets. I tried as honestly ts I could to acknowledge lUV association with so-called front organizntions, and I have no regrets, tor these two reasons, at the time I belonged to those I realized I didn't like what they did, and I feel personally that I can detect things that T could not detect a year or two ago. That is not caused altogether by the fact that the'country has changed, but it is because my experience has taught me if you don't do something about it, then I think you just lose the point. Incidentally, before coming in here, through no invitation of mine, there was a corps of photographers outside and they wanted a statement. I simply said that I Came in here to deny my affiliation and be of any Assistance I could. I hope there is no olijection to that.
Mr. TAVE.NNIR. No objection. 
Mr. JAcMsON. Thank you very much. (Whereupon, at 4 p. m., Monday, November 28, 1953, the hearing was elosed.) IN )EX I NDIVIDUAI ------3518 A land, R uth ................................................. 3511-35,'l)3 (te Nlluony), 3545 AlinmI, W illiam I --------------------------A llen, F red ---------------------------------------------------------- ,510 Ameche, Don ------------------------------------- ----............ M.4 8534 Arnold, Fdward ..--------------------------------------------------Ilenof?, Max N --------------------------------------- 8501-,k0T (teaetmony) lloyer, Charles ------------------------------------------------------- 8534 llrown, John ............................----------- 3508-3510 testimonyy) 8I Bryant, M Lea Les ----------------------------------------------------- M'17 )Bryant, rs. --------------------------------------------------------(larko, Angela ------------------------------------------------------- 8527 8534 Column , onnid ------------------------------------------------ -----Colman. M ra. lonald ------------------------------------------------- 3.,34 -------852l, 3545, 551 k-Davihlmon. MicalAla {ike) --------------------])awe, Iobert hayn ------------------------------------------------ 110 )lanmond, M uni ------------------------------------------------------ 3523 532 D)mytryk, Edward ------------------------------------------------l iedl .Jerry ------------------------------------------------------- 8 2 ' 9 Finn, Aubroy ----------------------------------------------------512 ueell ------------------------------------------------------------8513 (loldmsteln, fLeonard ----------------------------------------------M18 lanmner, Ah'h ---------------------------.----------................ Il nrdia, Jolm W esley ------------------------------------------------- Q513 larrison. Milton $teppard (ale also Milton Merlin) -------------------- 3,3 W%517 Hay. Anita --------------------------------------------------------323, 3545. 3540. 852 .lopkins, 'nullne .................... V13 -------------------------------------------------------Jnrrlvo. Pautl Kraft, fy ------------------------------------- ------------------3600. 3 23 LawMon, Jobn Howard ---------------------------------------------- M23 lineman. Mitchell -------------------------------------------------- 8526 3-534 JLhltsch, Ernst -------------8 23 M ax, Ed ---------------------------------------------------------- 5.05 Melfrer, Milton ----------------------------------------------------(teutlmnny) Merlin, Milton (see also Milton SheppMrd lairrison)-- 352. ,NUMM-3,541 523, 3527. 353K8, 544. 1134-3 Moore, Sim ------------------------------------A34 Morrim, Cheater ----------------------------------------------------:512 Morse, Carleton ----------------------------------------------------3 503q-5 Mnq. Jack -----------------------------------------------------W4 Mowhray. Alan ----------------------------------------------------Mullen. Virina --------------------- 8-16, 3517, 822-524, 357. 8528, .5 &N17 Myraon. Auth -----------------------------------------------------8517,8618 Perlin. Paul ----------------------------------------------------35,4 lip, Harry -------------------------------------------------------8 23 Raymond, Judith --------------------------------------------------35, 38.W ) lvhIR -. .--------------------------------------Itlerla, Si 81. I..N 3. hloblnaon, ack ------------------------------------------------------- 523 8545 l1olihmon, Mary ----------------------------------------S5 Selnick ------------------------------------------------------------9514, 3515 Shafron, Eva -----------------------------------------------------W23. 3527. 3545 hlp, Reuben --------------------------------------------5'14 8lImmm, liny -----------------------------------------------------3503W-5 Soloman, o1 --------------------------------------------------.%%7 3558 Mwx Page 8523 Btapp, John .............................. 8509 Stevenson, Houseley, Jr -----------------------------------------Stone, Gene ----------------------------------------------------- 8528, 8545 Thomas, Norman ------------------------------------------------------ 3543 308-3510 Tietz, J. B ------------------------------------------------------350 TorgaiL--------------------------------------------------------3545 Vinson, Owen ---------------------------.-------------------------3523 Waxman, Stanley --------------------------------------------------3512, 3541 Welles, Orson -. . . . ..---------------------------------------3523 Whitney, Lynn ----------------------------------------------------8.542 Wolff, Ann ----------------------------.--------------------------3526 Wolff, Bill-------------------------------.-----------------------Zuckerman ----------------------------------------------------------3533 ORGANIZATION 8 512, 3515 Air Corps ----------------------------------------------------8506 Amtorg Trading Corp -----------------------------------------------543 Arts, Sciences and Professions Council of Hollywood ---------------3535, 8546, 3547, 8555 Authors' League of America --------------------------Columbia (Pictures) -------.- ......................---------------- 3534 ..--------- 3513, 8 3515, 3517, 8519, 3520 Columbia Broadcasting System .... 3541 Council of Arts and Sciences ----------------------------------------3528 Council of Arts, Sciences and Professions ------ ---------------------- 3538 Experimental Radical Theater ----------------------------853 Federal Bureau of Investigation ----------------------------------8540 Hollywood Anti-Nazi League --------------------------------------3 540, .3541 Hollywood Writers' Mobilization --------------------------------3538-.540 John Reed Club ------------------------------------------------8541 League of American Writers ----------------------------------------3515 Los Angeles Labor School --------------------------------------------......... .------------------------------------ 3511 Mercury Theater 3534 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer -----. . ..-------------------------------------534 Monogram -----------.-.-----.................----------------------- 8544 National Labor Conference for Peace -----------------------------. ..---------------------------_ 3512 Office of War Information -------3534, 3538, 8555 Paramount (Films) ------------ ----------------------8517 Phychoanalyticel Society --.........-------------------------------8512, 3534 ----------------------RKO-------------------------536 Radio Artists' Guild --.............----------------------------------Radio Writers Guild ------------ 3527, 3535-3587, 3544, 3546-3549, 3551-8556 -3547 Radio Writers' Guild Councl_ ------------------------------------3538 Santa Monica Bay Musical Association -----------------------------8505, 8527, 8530, 8546-3549, 8554 Screen Writers' Guild ----------....... 3543 Socialist Party ---------------------------------------------------3541 Signal Corps-----------------------------------------------3547 TV Alliance ----------------------------------------------------3513, 8522 8Universal Studios -----------------------------------------8533 University of California at Berkeley ---------------------------------University of California at Los Angeles -------------------- 353, 3541, 3544 ...............------------------536, 3546 We the Undersigned ----------8541 Writers' Congress -----------------------------------------------PULICATIoS Daily Topics ---------------------------.-------------------------Los Angeles Times -----------------------------------------------People's World --------------------------..--------------------------Santa Monica Outlook -------------------- ----------------------- 0 3 534 81 3555 353 