Mr. VDAVER. My full name is Matthew Samuel Vidaver, Jr.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you known by a nickname ?
Mr. VIDAVER. Ususally by the name of Matt. 
Mr. TAVENNER. It is noted you are accompanied by counsel. Will counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. MARGOLIS. Ben Margolis. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Vidaver?
Mr. VIAVER. San Francisco, Calif., August 4,1913.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell your last name, please ?
Mr. VAvER. V-i-d-a-v-e-r. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time resided in Los Angeles?
Mr. ViAVEE. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, the period of your residence in Los Angeles?
Mr. VmAVER. I first came to Los Angeles in 1919. I think we stayed here for a year or a year and a half. I returned to Los Angeles, I was about 13 years old, 14. That would be after the depression started, so it would be about 1929, and remained in Los Angeles fairly consistently-I lived in other places for short periods of time, Santa Monica, which is an independent community, and San Diego, San Francisco, but mainly in the Los Angeles-southern California area, up until 1948, I believe. Also, some time was spent overseas during the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the period when you were overseas, or, better still, will you tell the committee, please, when you entered the armed services and when you left?
Mr. VDmAVER. I was in the merchant marine during the war. I believe it was possibly the last part of 1943 through the first part of 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. During this period between 1929 and 1948 when you lived in Los Angeles, with the exceptions you mentioned, I believe you said you lived at Santa Monica for a period.
Mr. VIDAVER. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that period of time?
Mr. VIDAVER. It is very hard to say. I lived in Santa Monica Canof the yon, and I am not sure but I think that is specifically a part city of Los Angeles, although everyone considers it Santa Monica, uses the Santa Monica shopping district, and so forth. I lived thereor 12 my son was born there-on and off, I guess for a period of 11 years; and then resided in Santa Monica and Ocean Park, I imagine altogether a period of maybe a year or two. lived
Mr. TAVENNE. Will you tell the committee, please, when you in San Diego? 1942.
Mr. VIDAVER. That was, I believe, in the year
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you there ?
Mr. VIDAVER. Approximately a year, maybe a little over a year. made
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Vidaver, the committee has not heretofore activities in Santa any extended investition of Communist Party Communist of can Monica. It desires at this time to learn what it Party activities in that area. 65 500-55--t. 3-2 1708 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA At the time you lived in Santa Monica, the period of 11 or 12 years, or any part of that time, were you an organizer of the Communist Party in that area?
Mr. VIDAVER. Before I answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, I would like to ask the Chair for some clarification. I don't mean to make a statement. I am very serious about this. It is my understanding that a citizen of the United States has the right to use the provisions provided in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights in a situation such as this, and that in doing so he in no way implicates himself in any question of guilt, and that not only has he the right but that he has the duty, when he considers that his constitutional privileges are being trespassed upon, when he considers that his right to his own political opinions is being invaded. Is this not so, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. DOYLE. I will answer the gentleman by just saying this, briefly: The committee feels that the witness is entitled, of course, and should rely upon the legal advice of his counsel in answering any legal question. We are in no position to undertake, even if we thought we might know the answer legally, to give you any legal advice. But we will say this frankly: This committee greatly respects a witness who takes the chair where you are, and conscientiously and in good faith and honestly claims the constitutional privilege. We do not criticize, ever, any witness who does that honestly and in good faith.
Mr. VIAvER. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. But we also shudder at the frequency with which witnesses take the first and fifth amendments and constitutional privileges in bad faith and without any intention of being honest with the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. VAVER. Is not the propriety of that step to be determined by the judiciary and not by the legislative branch of the Government?
Mr. JACKSON. Regular order.
Mr. DonE. We will proceed now. I have answered your point, and I think you have gotten your point across, have you not
Mr. VIDAVER. Thank you. I understand.
Mr. DoYLE. What is your answer to the question ?
Mr. VDAVER. What is the question again
Mr. TAVENNER. Read the question.
Mr. JACKSON. I can save some time. Was the witness an organizer of the Communist Party in Santa Monica at any time.
Mr. VIAVER. Are you asking the question
Mr. JAcKsoN. I was restating it in order to save some time in going back to the record. Is that the question!
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. VIAVER. I wish to assert my constitutional privilege, and I refuse to answer that question based upon the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. DonL. Very well.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is now in the process of conducting an investigation in San Diego, where hearings are to be held next week. When you were in San Diego for the year 1942, what was the occasion for your moving to that area
Mr. VmDAER. I consider this an improper question. I refuse to answer it on the same basis. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1709 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an organizer of the Communist Party in San Diego in 1942
Mr. VmAvIE. I am going to refuse to answer all questions about my political activity, my political thinking. This is my private opinion, my actions, and I base my declination to reply to this question on the first and fifth amendments to the Constitution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Max Silver testified before a subcommittee of this committee on January 23, 1952. He attempted to give the committee information regarding the organizational setup of the Communist Party in Los Angeles County during the period that he was its organizational secretary. I asked him this question: Now let us proceed with your discussion of the 16th Congressional District. On page 53 of exhibit 1 I find reference to the 61st Assembly District of the 16th Congressional District. Is that one of the groups in the 16th District?
Mr. SILER. That is right. That is what is known as the West Adams group, a large active branch. Question: Do you recall the nameof the organizer of that district? Parenthetically,'I should say we are discussing there the Communist Party.
Mr. SLVEn. Well, there were various, unless you ask me for a specific one. Matt Vidaver was the organizer of the 16th Congressional District for a time, and later went to San Diego to become the section organizer out there.
Mr. Silver also testified that you were at one time a member of the county committee of the Communist Party. Will you tell the committee, please, whether the statement of Mr. Silver was in error in any respect insofar as it related to you?
Mr. VmAVER. Mr. Chairman, I have already stated that I am not going to answer any questions in this area based upon my constitutional rights, and I understand the Chair is very anxious to expedite matters at this hearing. Mr. Tavenner knows that I am not going to answer any such questions. What is his purpose in asking the question at this time ?
Mr. SCHERER. To get it in the record, show who you are and what you are.
Mr. DOYLE. You can exercise your constitutional privilege if that is what you feel you can honestly do. I might state that we understand your position, so there is no need of your making any more preliminary remarks. 
Mr. VIDAVER. Isn't this already in the record ? Aren't you reading from the record, Mr. Tavenner? 
Mr. DOYLE. Will you answer the question, please, or stand on your privilege. Do you refuse to answer. If so, on what grounds?
Mr. VDAVER. You have the statements of a paid-an informer, anyway, I don't know if he was paid or not, and I don't wish to dignify this person, who for some reason of his own wants to become an informer, with an answer. 
Mr. SCHERER. All right, now. As an informer, did he lie about you? (The witness conferred with his counsel.) 
Mr. VIDAVER. I read a book by Harvey Matusow which is pretty indicative of the situation informers find themselves in today. 1710 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SCHERER. You have an opportunityMr. VIDAVER. He asked me a question. I am elaborating on the question.
Mr. JACKSON.
Mr. SCHsERE.
Mr. JACKSON.
Mr. SCHERER. Will you please answer the question. Let me finish. There is a question pending. I asked him a question. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question whether this man, whom he attacks as an informer, lied about him. He has an opportunity right here and now to say whether this man told the truth or whether he lied. I want to see him take advantage of that opportunity.
Mr. DOLE. I direct you to answer it, Mr. Witness, one way or another.
Mr. VIDAVER. Mr. Chairman, at the beginning I asked you on a question of clarification about utilizing constitutional privilege, and you stated that, if I get you correctlyMr. DoYLE. Go ahead. You heard my answer. We understand your position. You are as anxious to save your time as we are toMr. VIDAVER. I am. But I want the situation to be cleared. 
Mr. DOYLE. It is as clear as crystal, and you know it is. Now don't be facetious about it, please.
Mr. VIDAVER. I am not here to conceal anything. 
Mr. DOYLE. Why do you not answer honestly
Mr. VIDAVER. Because I believe by utilizing these constitutional privileges, I help to expose something.
Mr. JACKSON. Will the witness please use them, and let us get along. All that is necessary is to decline to answer. The witness knows that. All the committee is asking you to do, is to answer or decline to answer.
Mr. VIDAVER. What question is this? 
Mr. DoYLE. The question is Mr. Scherer's question.
Mr. SCHEREi. We have asked him. He has been directed. If he does not want to answer, let the record stand.
Mr. VIDAVER. What is the question again?
Mr. SCHERER. The question was whether this man who you call an informer, who you attack, lied about you. You have the opportunity to now say whether he lied. Did he lie in anything he said about you?
Mr. VIDAVER. Mr. Scherer, you know very well the situation that exists today.
Mr. SCHERER. I know it very well. 
Mr. VIDAVER. On this basis, I am going to decline to honor this question with an answer based upon my constitutional rights of the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. DOYLE. So that the record will be clear in connection with Mr. Max Silver, whose testimony Mr. Tavenner read, Mr. Max Silver was one of the top, leading Communist functionaries in Los Angeles County for several years, not paid by this committee a nickel, but he got his belly full of the Communist conspiracy and came forward and is trying to make up for some of the damage he did when he was a Communist leader. I just want the record to show he is not a paid informer, but he is an American citizen who got his belly full of the rottenness and garbage of the Communist conspiracy.
Mr. VnIAVER. I said I did not know whether he was paid or not. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYLE. I want the record to show he was not. class with Matusow. 1711 He is not in a 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Vidaver, I take it from your testimony you are unwilling to give the committee any facts that may be within your knowledge regarding Communist Party activities in Santa Monica or in San Diego. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. VmAVER. I understand. I am glad that fact has penetrated Mr. Tavenner. Maybe it will help to shorten this thing.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. I hand you two documents, photostatic copies of affidavit of registration, and will ask you to examine both of them. (Documents handed to the witness.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine the signature, the name of Matthew Vidaver on both the documents, and state whether or not they are your signatures ? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. VIDAVER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to withdraw my previous remark. Apparently it didn't penetrate.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you answer?
Mr. JACKSON. Is that the answer to the question ?
Mr. VIDAVER. Isn't it satisfactory ? 
Mr. JACKSON. If it is satisfactory to you, it is satisfactory to me.
Mr. VIDAVER. If it is satisfactory to the committee, that is the answer.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the ques- tion.
Mr. VIDAVER. Mr. Jackson said it was satisfactory. 
Mr. JACKSON. Evidently it is not satisfactory to the rest, and on second thought, in light of the Supreme Court decision, it is not satisfactory to me, and I join in requesting the direction.
Mr. DOYLE. We do not accept that as a sufficient answer, and I direct you to answer the question.
Mr. VIDAVER. I refuse to answer this question on the grounds previously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what the documents are, if you know ? (The witness conferred with his counsel.) 
Mr. VIDAvER. I think the documents speak for themselves, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. DOYLE. I do so direct you, Mr. Witness. 
Mr. VIDAVER. I refuse to answer, based upon reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the documents in evidence, and ask that they be marked "Vidaver Exhibits Nos. 1 and 2," respectively, for identification only.
Mr. DoYLE. So received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, the first document is a document signed by the name Matthew S. Vidaver, sworn to on September 24, 1936. It is an affidavit of registration in which paragraph 9 states: I intend to affiliate at the ensuing primary election with the Communist Party. 1712 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA The document, Vidaver Exhibit No. 2, bears a signed name of Matthew S. Vidaver, and is sworn to on the 27th day of September 1938 and states the same as the previous document in item 9, namely: I intend to affiliate at the ensuing primary election with the Communist Party. I hand the witness a pamphlet compiled and published by the secretary of state of the State of California for the year 1942, entitled "Members of Democratic, Republican, Townsend, Prohibition, and Communist State Central Committees." Will you examine pages 31 and 32 of that document, please. (Document handed to the witness.)
Mr. TAVENNER. After examining page 31, will you state whether or not the caption showsMr. MARGOLIs. We have not completed examining it, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand. I am asking the question.
Mr. MARGOLIS. Do you mind waiting until he finishes ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I want him to have it in mind while he considers it. 
Mr. MARGOLIS. We can't do 2 things at 1 time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you show the witness the document? 
Mr. MARGOLIS. We will do one thing at a time. We will listen to the question or we will look at it, not try to do both.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Margolis, you are not in a courtroom. Can't you courteously comply with counsel's question to facilitate his asking the question?
Mr. MARGOLIs. Does he want us to read and listen at the same time ? 
Mr. DOYLE. He is not asking you the question. He is talking to your client.
Mr. JACKSON. I understand all counsel asked is that the document be handed to the witness.
Mr. MARGOLIS. I will hold it while we look at it. I don't know what the fuss is about.
Mr. TAVENNER. You put the document where the witness couldn't see it when I wanted him to look at it. Hold it where he can see it, and it is perfectly satisfactory.
Mr. MARGOLIS. Is this satisfactory?
Mr. TAVENNER. It is if your client is looking at it. With page 31 of the document before you, do you see at the top a caption stating "Members of the Central Committee of the Communist Party"? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. VIDAVER. I think this document speaks for itself, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the ques- tion, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. We do not accept your answer, witness, as sufficient, and I direct you to answer that question. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. VIDAVER. I refuse to answer this question based upon reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you want any further time to examine the document? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Vidaver, will you now look at page 32, the last page of the document, and state whether or not you see in alphabetical order a list of names? (The witness conferred with his counsel.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1713 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you?
Mr. VIDAVER. I have already refused to answer any questions similar to this or based upon this document.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the ques- tion, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. We do not accept your answer as sufficient, and I direct you to answer. You have looked at the page.
Mr. VIDAVER. I refuse to answer based upon reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you observe under the "V's" the name of Matthew Vidaver as a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party for the year 1942 ?
Mr. VIDAVER. I refuse to answer this question based upon reasons previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to offer in evidence the frontispiece of the document and pages 31 and 32, and ask that it be marked "Vidaver Exhibit No. 3" for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. It may be received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions. 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Moulder?
Mr. MOULDER. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have one more. Are you a member of the Communist Party now ?
Mr. VIDAVER. Evidently it didn't penetrate. 
Mr. DOYLE. What is your anwer, please? I refuse to answer this question based upon reasons
Mr. VITDAVER. previously stated.
Mr. JACKSON. That penetrated.
Mr. TAVENER. I have no further questions.
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. SCIERER. I have no questions.
Mr. DOYLE. You are excused, Witness.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. William Elconin. 
Mr. DOYLE. Please raise your hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. ELCONIN. I do. 
Mr. DOYLE. Please be seated. BY COUNSEL, TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM ELCONIN, ACCOMPANIED DAVID SCRIBNER
