Mrs. FREED. Tashia Freed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you accompanied by counsel?
Mrs. FREED. Very able counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify herself for the record ?
Mrs. SPENCER. Mrs. Vaino Spencer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a native of California, Mrs. Freed?
Mrs. FREED. I am a citizen by derivation.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you born?
Mrs. FREED. In Russia.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you come to this country?
Mrs. FREED. 1918.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you naturalized and where.
Mrs. FREED. In Los Angeles in 1921.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mrs. FREED. I give service in a small variety store.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been?
Mrs. FREED. Grammar school and high school.
Mr. TAVENNER. What other occupations or employments have you had since 1937?
Mrs. FREED. I worked as a saleslady in a bakery. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I worked as a laboratory technician in a lab.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that ?
Mrs. FREED. 1942 to November 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your employment since 1944?
Mrs. FREED. I did not have any employment until just recently.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with a person by the name of William Kimple? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I decline to answer. I don't want to test my veracity against statements that were made on the stand by a police informer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me present to youMr. SCHERER. May I interrupt? Was anything that "police informer" as you call him-anything said by him about you untrue? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I refuse to answer that question. It is the same question put by you instead of Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. JACKSON. Upon what grounds do you refuse to answer? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I don't want to put myself in the position to test my veracity against the informer here. I don't want to go into the expense of trying to prove myself not guilty or, since I feel I am innocent, I don't want to get into the same predicament Owen Lattimore COIMMUINIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1765 got in and was just vindicated yesterday, and on that basis I feel I don't have to answer the question.
Mr. JACKSON. Is that the reason you are giving for not answering the question? If so, the committee is not satisfied with the answer. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I certainly will claim the fifth amendment if that is what you want me to say.
Mr. JACKSON. That is a constitutional legal ground for refusing to answer.
Mr. TAVENKER. You seem to place a great deal of stress upon your unwillingness to testify because of the testimony of Mr. Kimple. I hand you a document, which has been introduced in evidence as Kimple Exhibit No. 13, and I will ask you to state whether or not you, yourself, signed that document? (Document handed to witness.)
Mr. TAVENNER. And that the signature of Tashia Freed was made by you? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I refuse to answer this question on the first, supported by the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. You will note there is a title under the signature of the name Tashia Freed. It is unit organizer. Were you unit organizer at the time that card was executed ?
Mrs. FREED. I refuse to answer on the same grounds as previously.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Anne Pollock?
Mrs. FREED. I refuse to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. SCHERER. The witness' reason that she did not want to test the testimony of Officer Kimple now vamshes into thin air.
Mrs. SPENCER. She claimed the first and the fifth, and those were the grounds we are referring to.
Mr. DOYLE. You may not have been in the hearing room, Madam Attorney, but we do not allow counsel to address the committee. We simply do not have the time nor facility. So please address the committee, if you want, through your witness. I am sorry we cannot hear members of the bar, but we simply do not have time. Our rules clearly so state.
Mr. JACKsoN. I wanted the record to be clear as to all of the questions to which declinations have been entered and as much for the witness' protection as for the committee.
Mr. SCH ER.E It was just an observation because she answered the previous question. One of the reasons she gave was she did not want to subject herself to a possible charge of perjury in testing the testimony of Officer Kimple, and I said that-Mr. JACKSON. I thought she followed that with the fifth and first.
Mr. SOHERE. She did, but that reason now vanishes in thin air because we have before us now the documentary evidence and she refuses on the basis of the tifth amendment to tell whether that is her signature and whether she executed the cards, so one of her reasons at least for not answering the previous question as I say does not carry any weight.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Aune Pollock known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mrs. FREED. I refuse to answer this question on the first, supported by the fifth. 1766 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Anne Pollock use the Communist Party name of Anne Burton, to your personal knowledge?
Mrs. FREED. That would be the same question. I will answer it in exactly the same words. I refuse to answer on the first, supported by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write on this card in your own handwriting that the dues of Anne Burton, party name, Anne Pollock, real name, were paid to January 1938
Mrs. FREED. Mr. Tavenner, I think it is the same question, and we could save a lot of time here if you will know that I am going to claim the privilege on the first and fifth on any questions that you ask me.
Mr. SCHERER. You have made up your mind in advance to claim the first?
Mrs. FREED. No.
Mr. SCHERER. How can you tell whether the question might incriminate you before it is asked? (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. You certainly are not invoking the fifth amendment faith then, madam. good in
Mr. DOYLE. That is pretty clear evidence.
Mrs. FREED. If the question is relevant, I will claim the first and fifth, and I see that the questions are following in exactly the same pattern and on that basis, IMr. SCHERER. Your attorney advised you properly and saved you from the bell.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you transfer Anne Pollock from unit J-5 of the Hollywood section of the Communist Party to the 57 assembly branch section of the Communist Party?
Mrs. FREED. I refuse to answer on the same grounds. I stand on the first supported by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of a sponsor's certificate on behalf of the candidate for partisan office sponsoring Emil * Freed for the Communist Party nomination in the office or to the office of Representative in Congress for the 15th District to be voted for at the primary election to be held on the 27th day of August 1940, and I will ask you to look at the second signature appearing in the document. Will you state whether or not the signature appearing there is your signature? (Document handed to witness.) (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. FREED. I refuse to answer the question on the same grounds, on the first, supported by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Freed Exhibit No. 1" for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. It will be so received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy in two pages of another sponsor's certificate on behalf of candidate for partisan office in which it is stated: I, the undersigned, sponsor for Anita Whitney for the Communist Party nomination to the office of member of the United States Senate to be voted for at the primary election to be held on the 2Tth day of August 1940. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1767 And I will ask you to examine the last signature appearing near the top of page 2 and state whether or not that signature is your signature. (Document handed to witness.) (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I refuse to answer the question on the first, supported by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and request that it be marked "Freed Exhibit No. 2" for identification only.
Mr. DOLE. So received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a third photostatic copy of a sponsor's certificate on behalf of candidate for partisan office, on the second page of which you will see a certification "deputy's affidavit." This affidavit reads as follows: I, Tashia Freed, solemnly swear that I have been appointed according to the provisions of sections 2610 and 2611 of the elections code as a verification deputy to secure signatures of sponsors in the county of Los Angeles to the nomination paper of Anita Whitney as a candidate for the nomination of the Communist Party for the office of State comptroller, that all of the signatures on this section of the nomination paper were made in my presence and that to the best of my knowledge and belief each signature is a genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be. TASHIA FREED. (Signed) Subscribed and sworn to on the 18th day of June 1942. Will you examine your signature or the signature to the affidavit and state whether or not it is your signature ? (Document handed to witness.) The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mrs. FREED. I decline to answer on the first supported by the fifth. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Freed Exhibit No. 3" for identification only.
Mr. DOYLE. It will be received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on the last day indicated in 1942?
Mrs. FREED. I decline to answer on the first supported by the fifth.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Communist Party now?
Mrs. FREED. I decline to answer on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mrs. FREED. I decline on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. DOYLE. Any questions, Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Scherer?
Mr. SCHERER. No questions.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you, Witness and Counsel. (Whereupon, the witness was excused.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Max Appelman.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. APPELMAN. I do. (Representative Jackson left the hearing room.) 1768 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA TESTIMONY OF MAX APPELMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, A. L. WIRING
