Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. sir? TAVENNER. Will you state your full name, please, ELCONIN. My name is William Elconin. please? TAVENNER. Will you spell your last name, ELCONIN. E-l-c-o-n-i-n. by counsel. TAVENNER It is noted you are accompanied Will counsel please identify himself for the record
Mr.sCERIBE. New York City. David Scribner, S-c-ri-n-e-r, 11 East 51st Strcet, and where were you born, Mr. Elconin? 
Mr. ELCONIN. I was born December 19 * land, Ohio. 14, in the city of Cleve- 1714 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, briefly what your formal educational training has been
Mr. ELCONIN. Yes. I came to the city of Los Angeles at the age of 4; went to elementary school and junior and high school in the Los Angeles city school system; proceeded then to California Institute of Technology, and graduated in 1936 or 1937 with a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your record of employment has been since 1940
Mr. ELCONIN. I have been an employee of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America as a field organizer up until, I forget just when, 4 or 5 years ago, when I became international representative of that union.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I interrupt? When did you first become a field organizer!
Mr. ELCONIN. In 1940. I don't know the exact month. I think it was in March.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a field organizer until about 5 years ago?
Mr. ELCONIN. Well, I continued continuously in employment. I simply was promoted, so to speak.
Mr. TAVENNER. I did not understand you.
Mr. ELCONIN. I have always been in employment with this union from that time until now except for the time I spent in the service, but the title of my position changed from field organizer at one stage to international representative now.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us when it changed ?
Mr. ELCONIN. I can't remember the exact date. I think I mentioned it was 4 or 5 years ago, but I am not exactly certain.
Mr. TAVENNER. That would be in 1950 or 1951, then ?
Mr. ELCONIN. I told you I am not certain. I just don't know. I can check my paychecks if you say.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is sufficiently accurate. I understand you to say you were field organizer continuously from about 1940 up until you were promoted to the position of international representative, with the exception of the time you were in the military service.
Mr. ELcoNIN. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the period of time that you were in the military service ?
Mr. ELCONIN. I was in the military service approximately 3 years and 3 or 4 months. Do you want the dates?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, I would like to know when you entered the service. 
Mr. ELCONIN. I entered the service the first time, I think, in June of 1942, and was an officer as a second lieutenant; and then I was relieved from active duty in, I believe, December of the same year; returned to the service in October of 1943 and continued then until March of 1946 when I was honorably discharged as a first lieutenant.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you were relieved from active duty in December 1942. Weren't you discharged as well as being relieved?
Mr. ELCONIN. No. I received no such papers of discharge. I simply received orders to be relieved from active duty.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you not separated from the service on December 13,1942 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1715 
Mr. ELCONIN. Well, I was told I was relieved from duty, relieved from active duty, and I was told I could sit the rest of the war out if I chose to, but I didn't. I don't know whether that means separated from the service or not. I didn't receive any official document that I can recall, indicating any kind of separation other than the order saying relieved from active duty. That is the best of my recollection.
Mr. TAvENNER. What was the reason for the action taken by the Government in relieving you from active service or giving you a discharge, whichever may have been the fact (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELCONIN. I think I would like to tell you this in some detail. It won't take too long. I was relieved from duty, as you say, December 13-I am not questioning the day; I said it was in December. I am not sure of the timeand no explanation was given to me at that time, none whatsoever. As a matter of fact, I recall inquiring of the adjutant on the given post, I think it was at Fort Monmouth, what the reason was, and he said he didn't know.. He said he thought it was a matter of mistaken identity or something. Thereafter, when the orders were confirmed, I checked with him again, and he said he did not know and would seek to find out. He was unable, apparently, to do so, but he never communicated with me again. I went to New York-Monmouth is very close to New York-and took this matter up with my union, and we took it up in turn through our Washington legislative representative with the War Department, and the War Department communicated with our Washington office, indicating that they were separating me from the service because I had supposedly been a. w. o. 1.-absent without leave-on a given date, and I can't recall the date. The facts, however, were, I wasn't a. w. o. 1., as they later admitted in another communication that I was, at the time they claimed I was a. w. o. 1., I was actually in conference with the lieutenant colonel who was responsible for this corps area, clearing up a false accusation made against me by a member of a company union. At least, as far as I know he was a member of a company union or a management representative of a given company. The company's name was Cannon Electric Co. We were engaged, before I went into the service, in organizing that plant. I was active in that campaign, and went directly from there into the service. At the beginmng of my service, I was over at Cal Tech for a refresher course in electronics of various types, and word came to me through my friends in the union where they were continuing their organizational activity at that plant, that 4 or 5 people were being discharged by the company for union activities, and that the union wasMr. DOYLE. Just a minute. That goes out of the area, I think, of your own individual case.
Mr. ELCONIN. I told you what they told me.
Mr. DOYLE. This is no place for you to make a tirade against any union or against any company. We are asking for your military record. 65500-55-pt. 8--3 1716 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. ELCONIN. It so happens these false accusations- 
Mr. DOYL . We are interested in your military record.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am trying to give it to you, but I think I have a right to explain my reason for separation from the service.
Mr. DOYLE. We are interested in your own military record; not a question of controversy between you and the union or employer.
Mr. ELCONIN. I want to explain. 
Mr. DOYLE. We will give you an opportunity to explain your own military record.
Mr. ELCONIN. This has to do with that, very much.
Mr. DOYLE. There is a good deal of hearsay, and you ought to know what your own military record is.
Mr. ELOONIN. I am talking of my military record the best I can recall it.
Mr. DOYLE. Don't go into the area of your union troubles.
Mr. ELcorNN. It so happens because I was an officer in the service I went to this given plant to prevent a strike, because this was a plant producing defense parts; and instead of the authorities being informed I was there to prevent a strike, somebody maliciously told them I was there to incite a strike, and as a result of the investigation being conducted around me and when I was conferring with the lieutenant colonel, whose name I can't recall, of this area, they cleared it up and found out it was completely wrong, that the charge was false; and because of that reason I arrived in Fort Monmouth 1 day later than the order originally called for my getting there. This information came out in the course of our investigation, or rather, our discussion of the matter with the War Department, and it has all been confirmed in writing. That was the reason we finally found out for my separation from active duty.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you have confirmation in writing? 
Mr. ELCONIN. I don't have it here.
Mr. DOYLE. Where is it?
Mr. ELCONIN. I have it at home.
Mr. DOYLE. Why did you not bring it?
Mr. ELCONIN. You didn't tell me what I was to be questioned about. I had no knowledge what you were going to talk to me about at all. (Representative Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. Go ahead. 
Mr. ELCONIN. I want to make clear one last point on the military service. When I went back into the service, it was with the understanding from the War Department, I also have in writing, signed by a brigadier general of the Under Secretary of War's office, there would be no further discrimination against me or prevention of my activities in the service as far as promotion was concerned. I rewon my commission, and I came out as a first lieutenant. .Those were the facts, and that is the situation. I gave you the dates.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was any question of Communist Party activities on your part involved in your discharge from the United States Army on December 13, 1942? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELcoNIN. That question was never mentioned to me by anybody at any time I was in the service, and I tried on more occasions than one to find out what it was that was in any way interfering with my COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1717 activities in the service as far as my being an officer was concerned, and I was never able to get anyone to tell me anything.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at that time
Mr. ELCONIN. I want to refuse to answer that question, very naturally. I think you know I am employed by the United Electrical Workers. I have already made that clear. I think you know that our union was just involved in the recently historic case of Emspak and Quinn which the Supreme Court ruled on May 23. Sitting with me is the distinguished counsel of our union who won that case, and this committee was involved in attacking our union in that case.
Mr. DOYLE. Just a minute. Answer the question, please.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am about to tell you why I am going to refuse to answer that question.
Mr. DOsLE. You are entitled to plead your constitutional privilege. You are fully advised by your legal counsel you know, and we do not have the time for you to make a record here for the purpose of your own publications.
Mr. ELCONIN. You do have time to make records smearing people's names. I should have a right to explain why I refuse to answer this question. If you want to ask the question. I will answer it in my way.
Mr. DOYLE. We will not have time for you to entirely answer it in your own way, you might as well understand it.
Mr. ELCONIN. If you are willing to withdraw the question-Mr. DOYLE. We are not willing.
Mr. ELCONIN. Then I will answer it my own way.
Mr. DOYLE. You will not have time to write a book before this committee. Please continue.
Mr. ELCONIN. If you wish to ask questions and answer them, both, ask yourself the questions. If you want me to answer the questions, give me a chance.
Mr. DOYLE. We are going to have you observe the rules of the committee the same as every other witness is required to.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am familiar with the fact there are rules of the committee, and I don't know what they are. If you ask me questions, I understand I am entitled to answer them my own way. I am trying to explain why I will refuse to answer this and similar such questions before this committee. I would like to make a request, if I mayMr. SOHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question without further speech.
Mr. DoYLE. I so direct you.
Mr. ELCONIN. May I ask you one question first?
Mr. SCHERER. No.
Mr. DOYLE. You are being asked a question by our counsel.
Mr. ELCONIN. I realize that, but I am trying to explain that this case which our union was just involved in specifically recites and directs itself to this type of question.
Mr. DOYLE. We are familiar with that case.
Mr. ELCoNIN. I wish you would practice some of the decisions involved in that case.
Mr. DOYLE. Just a minute. You are not going to make a mockery out of this committee although you are trying to. We understand your methods and your reasons for using them. If there are any more out- 1718 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA bursts from anyone in the room, we will clear the courtroom, and if 5 or 6 of you people want to be responsible for everybody being put out of the courtroom, then continue that sort of outburst. That is fair. That is my statement. If 5 or 6 of you want to be selfish enough to make everyone lose out on the information from sitting in the courtroom, then you do that again; and if we can identify the 5 or 6, the 5 or 6 will be put out and not the rest.
Mr. ELCONIN. Mr. Doyle, I would like to request that my counsel have an opportunity to explain where this particular decision bears on this type of investigation.
Mr. DOYLE. We are not a court. You know that and your counsel knows it. He has been before our committee before at Washington. He knows he is not allowed to address this committee, and so do you. Our time is not sufficient to permit legal counsel to argue with the committee.
Mr. SCRIBNER. Since you are referring to me, do you mind if I speak for myself ?
Mr. DOYLE. No. You well know our rules do not permit it, and you know our rule is reasonable.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I realize actually sitting here does not make me counsel for the witness, because I have no rights in that respect.
Mr. DOYLE. You have a right to address the committee through your witness, and you know it, and that is the only way we can permit. We are questioning your client, not you; it is his answers and not yours which we are entitled to receive at this hearing.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I appreciate that, having had that experience many times, and by sitting here I am participating in a fraud in that sense.
Mr. DOYLE. You came clear from New York to appear with this witness, and we want you to have that privilege, but you have been before us many times at Washington, and you know the rules of the committee and so does your client. It is not a fraud in any sense. Your use of that word is highly inappropriate.
Mr. SCRIBNER. Have they changed in respect to cross-examination ?
Mr. DOTLE. Just a minute-you again deliberately violate our rules.
Mr. SCRIBNER. This is a fair question, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DoYLE. You know the rules of the committee. You have a copy of them. I assume you read them.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I know the rules up to the time the witness appeared, and I am asking a civil question as to whether or not there has been any change in the rules to permit my cross-examination of any witnesses. 
Mr. SCHERER. Counsel is in contempt.
Mr. DOYLE. That is right. Attorney Scribner, you are again deliberately violating a reasonable rule of this committee.
Mr. SCHERER. Contempt of this committee.
Mr. ScRIBNER. That is a complete absurdity, if I may be permitted to say.
Mr. DOYLE. You soon will be if you are not careful. If this were a court, you would not dare persist in violating the court rules.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I happen to be familiar with the rules and the law on this subject matter, and merely frightening counsel for a witness is not going to serve any particular purpose, I promise you.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct counsel to desist from further talking to this committee. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA S 1719 
Mr. ELcoNIN. I don't know whether that is fair, Mr. Scherer. He is my counsel, and I would like to have him sit right here with me where I can talk with him, not out in left field where I can wave hand signals at him.
Mr. DOYLE. You have now made a page of your book for publication. Let us proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am not trying to make a book. That is the function of the committee, to try to get all publicity.
Mr. DoYLE. Go ahead.
Mr. ELCONIN. Since my counsel is prohibited from acting as counsel, I will have to act as my own.
Mr. DomLE. He knows the rules of the committee, and so do you. Your statement that he has been prohibited from being your legal counsel is plainly false. He has, however, learned that he cannot continue to deliberately violate our rules.
Mr. ELCONIN. You may call that counsel in your opinion, but it is not in mine.
Mr. DOYLE. We are not going to permit you to read a legal decision in this case. We know those court opinions and repeat them. Your counsel sits by you at all times.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am going to state my grounds for refusing to answer that question, Mr. Chairman. I am going to state them my way.
Mr. DoTLE. You are not going to take the time of the committee to read a legal decision with which we are already familiar.
Mr. ELcoNIN. Are you ashamed of the decision ?
Mr. DOYLE. Proud of it.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am also proud of it, very much so.
Mr. SCHERER. I think we have had enough of this.
Mr. ELCONIN. Maybe you do. I would like to state my grounds.
Mr. SCHERER. We have had enough of this.
Mr. ELcoNIN. I have several specific grounds for refusing to answer that question and that type of question.
Mr. DOYLE. Those grounds are your constitutional grounds, and you are entitled to plead those when you feel you can honestly do so. We respect honest use of constitutional grounds.
Mr. ELCONIN. My understanding is I can use any grounds I think valid. You may judge them invalid later, but I may use them. I would like to refer, if I may, since I don't think I can state this any better than Governor Warren stated it in this decisionMr. DomE. We are perfectly familiar with that. We have the decision and text right before us on our desk. Here are the copies of it.
Mr. ELCONIN. I heard Mr. Moulder-Mr. DoYLE. You can refer to the decision, but I will not permit you to take time to read that long decision.
Mr. ELoCNIN. I don't intend to read that long decision. I heard
Mr. Moulder make reference to this decision and the question of having to direct witnesses to answer with respect to the fifth amendment. There are other portions of this decision valid to this matter and explain why I refuse to answer this kind of question, and I would like to point them out one at a time, and they are very brief, and explain how they refer to my refusal to answer that.
Mr. SCHEER. Point of order. He has had ample time to comply with the chairman's ruling. He can invoke his constitutional privilege 1720 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA if he wants to. He has not seen fit to do that. If he wants to make a speech and read a decision, I ask that we proceed and ask the next question.
Mr. ELCONIN. You haven't permitted me to state my reasons yet. I would like to do that.
Mr. DoYLE. If you are going to state your constitutional reasons, do so, but I am not going to permit you to read that decision. You can refer to it if you want, but we have the decision right here in printed form. We are familiar with it.
Mr. ELcoNrw. I know, but I don't think the people are necessarily familiar with it.
Mr. DOYLE. You are not here to make a speech for the benefit of this audience or for your publication.
Mr. ELCONIN. I realize that. 
Mr. DOYLE. You are here to answer decently and cooperatively the questions in a dignified, honest manner.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am trying to, but you are not permitting me to.
Mr. DOYLE. I will not permit you to write a book or make a record to suit your publication out of this hearing. Answer by giving your constitutional grounds if you honestly want to.
Mr. ELCONIN. May I say that my first reason for refusing to answer that question is that the powers of this committee to investigate are subject to recognized limitations.
Mr. DOYLE. Just a minute. You are reading from the court decision, and I said we are not going to permit you to do so. Now please desist, because we will not permit you to do so. Do you understand?
Mr. ELCONIN. May I ask a question?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. 
Mr. ELcoNne. All right.
Mr. DOYLE. Don't be reading the decision, however. 
Mr. ELCONIN. I am not going to answer-Mr. DOYLE. You are reading the court decision again.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am not now. I glanced at it.
Mr. DOYLE. What is your question ? 
Mr. ELCONIN. My question is this decision was made as a result of activities of this committee, and it directs the type of thing that this committee cannot do.
Mr. DOYLE. We are familiar with that. We have been informed by our legal counsel also.
Mr. ELCONIN. It seems to me, Mr. Chairman, the best thing the committee could do is pack up and go home, as far as these decisionsMr. DOYLE. You now have this for your publication. Now a ahead and answer the question, because you are not going to tae much more time of this committee on this occasion, I can assure you of that.
Mr. ELCONIN. It would appear to me, Mr. Chairman, you seem to be frightened by this language here. 
Mr. DOYLE. You have something else for your publication. What else doyou want to get in Our courts are a bulwark of freedom an justice. e
Mr. ELCONIN. Do you want to know what I want in the publicationI I will be glad to tell you. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1721 
Mr. DoLE. I am directing you to answer Mr. Tavenner's question. It is a simple valid question. I hear you now admit you want to make a showing for your publication.
Mr. ELCONIN. I said, Mr. Chairman, that I refuse to answer the question. It is not a simple question.
Mr. DoLE. Whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party while in the military uniform of the United States, is a very simple question. The Communist conspiracy is not friendly to the national security or defense of the United States.
Mr. ELCONIN. You know what happens when people get accused. Tremendous damage done to reputations by all this sort of thing.
Mr. DoLE. Just a minute. You have gone far enough in being unreasonable about answering reasonable questions.
Mr. ELCONIN. Yes.
Mr. DOYE. And I mean that, sir.
Mr. ELCONIN. I understand what you mean.
Mr. DOYLE. Then cooperate as an American citizen with the committee by not making speeches for your publication.
Mr. ELCONIN. If you treat me as one, I will cooperate as one. That is, I think, proper.
Mr. DOLE. I will give you the opportunity to exercise your constitutional privilege, and we do not object to that at all where a witness thinks he is doing it honestly and fairly, but again I am telling it to you frankly, I am not going to permit you to monopolize the time of this committee in doing what you came here planning to do, to abuse this committee.
Mr. ELCONIN. Mr. Chairman, if I were to do what you wanted me to do, you would let me stay here all night.
Mr. DYLE. No, indeed, we would not. You are wrong again.
Mr. ELCONIN. You would if I became a friendly seal here. You would be glad to let me stay here and spiel out names. You would encourage me.
Mr. DOrLE. Now you have that for your publication, also.
Mr. ELCONIN. It is true; isn't it?
Mr. DOYLE. No. We would also expect a friendly witness to stick to the subject matter before us.
Mr. ELCONIN. That is the way it has been in the past, that is all I know about it. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. Do E. Now will you answer Mr. Tavenner's question? I direct you to answer. We are not accepting your answer so far given as sufficient. 
Mr. ELCONIN. I haven't finished it yet.
Mr. DOTLE. I am telling you we have not accepted your answer so far, if you intend it as part of an answer, any part of an answer. I am directing you to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. I understand the witness has refused to answer.
Mr. DOYLE. That is right.
Mr. MOULDER. He desires to give his reasons for refusing. I agree with him that he is entitled to give his reasons. However, I do not think you should read the argumentative portion of a court decision. I mean by that, I do not think you are limto certain ited for your reasons for refusal to answer by limiting you 1722 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA provisions of the Constitution. If you have other reasons that you think are reasonable, you are entitled to express them.
Mr. ELONIN. I think so, too. I am trying to do that.
Mr. DOYLE. My ruling is you are not entitled to read that decision. You are entitled to give your constitutional reasons.
Mr. ELCONIN. If I refer to it for the purpose of refreshing my memory as to my constitutional rightsMr. DOYLE. You are familiar with the decision, and so are we.
Mr. ELCONIN. How do you know I am familiar with it? I will decide what I am familiar with, and you decide what the questions are.
Mr. DOYLE. I am not going to permit you to read that long decision. You manifestly show familiarity with the decisions, and I am glad you are. You clearly have no need of refreshing your memory.
Mr. ELCoNIN. I am not going to read it. Let me go ahead with my reasons. 
Mr. DOYLE. Don't read the decision, please, if you are not referring to it.
Mr. ELCONIN. I didn't say I wasn't referring to it. I said I wasn't reading it. I think, Mr. Chairman, it is my opinion that this committee has no right to inquire into any of my private affairs or beliefs which are unrelated to any stated purpose. I think further this committee is misusing its power; that it has no right whatsoever to engage in actions as if it were a court or a police force of any sort. And I think this committee has been doing that, and I cite this as one reason for refusing to answer this kind of question. I think further that this committee has established by its record and by its personal treatment of me in the past, not just today, a record of bias and prejudice against me and the organization I represent so that it makes it impossible for me to get any kind of fair hearing here whatsoever.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, I clearly disagree with the witness in that.
Mr. ELCONIN. I will explain that.
Mr. MOULDER. That is not a reason for refusing. opinion of the committee. That is your 
Mr. ELCONIN. If you don't like it, you can discount it. but this is a reason. I don't feel I have an opportunity here to get a fair hearing whatsoever, and I will tell you why.
Mr. DoYLE. We are not interested in why. You have made your statement, and that is all right. Please proceed promptly.
Mr. ELCONIN. I would further like to state that I took an oath to defend this country when I was a soldier, against all enemies, whether foreign or domestic, and in my opinion this committee has acted as one of the most serious enemies of our constitutional rights, and therefore is acting in a lawless manner.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman, I object to the statement.
Mr. DoyE. Just a minute, witness. I will move to strike that out of the record, that kind of baloney and misrepresentation. Our courts uphold the functioning of this committee under Public Law 601.
Mr. ELCONIN. I can prove it. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1723 
Mr. DOYLE. We are not going to burden the printed record with that sort of statement. You might as well understand it.
Mr. ELCONIN. I thought I was going to be permitted to state my grounds. I am taking very little time.
Mr. DOYLE. They are not grounds; merely an attack on the committee.
Mr. ELCONIN. The chairman has been busily attacking other people. I have a right to defend myself here. I certainly have that right; do I not? If you deny this to me, what else do I have left ?
Mr. DOYLE. I am telling you I am not going to let that sort of junk go into the record for printing purposes by your publication or anybody else. It is not a valid statement of fact before this committee. It is another false statement of yours for the purpose of your publication.
Mr. ELCONIN. My further reasons for refusing to answer the question is that this committee cannot inquire into the mind, personal affairs, my political beliefs or associations, because of the provisions cf the first amendment of our Constitution. My last ground for.refusing to answer this question is that I refuse to be put in a position, by questions such as this, of appearing to be or being a witness against myself. This is one of the provisions of the Bill of Rights to which I refer, and I cite that as one of the reasons for refusing to answer this question, and I emphasize in citing that-Mr. SCHEER. He has answered. He has refused to answer.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am still answering, Mr. Scherer. You are interrupting me.
Mr. SCHERER. Just a minute, Witness.
Mr. Chairman, he has answered the question. He has invoked the fifth amendment. He has invoked it properly. He has responded to the question.
Mr. ELCONIN. Mr. Moulder said I should have an opportunity to explain briefly my reasons.
Mr. SCHERER. You have had an opportunity to explain. I know what you are doing.
Mr. ELCONIN. Maybe you do.
Mr. SCHERER. Let's go ahead with the next question.
Mr. ELCONIN. I want to emphasize the statement that the fifth amendment is for the purpose of defending the innocent people of this country. 
Mr. DOYLE. Are you pleading the first and fifth amendments?
Mr. ELCONIN. I have mentioned those among many other grounds, yes.
Mr. DOYLE. Go ahead, Mr. Tavenner. He has frankly answered the question.
Mr. SCHERER. He has refused to say whether he was a Communist while in the Army.
Mr. ELCONIN. IS the member of the committee there permitted to make all these offhand comments ?
Mr. DOYLE. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am asking a question.
Mr. DOYLE. He is a member of the committee.
Mr. ELCONIN. What does that mean 65500-55--pt. 3--4 1724 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Elconin, you stated you were a field organizer in the UE from 1940 up until 4 or 5 years ago. During that period of time was the law construed in such a manner, as far as the UE was concerned, as to require field organizers to sign the Taft-Hartley non-Communist affidavit?
Mr. SCRIBNER. That is a legal question. Do you prefer I answer it?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. SCRIBNER. You are asking for construction of the law, and you are a lawyer and he is not. 
Mr. DoLE. Just a minute. 
Mr. SCRIBNER. May I appeal to you. He is asking for construction of the law.
Mr. DoYLE. If you want to talk to the committee counsel when not before the committee, you may.
Mr. TAVENNEB. The witness was a field organizer, and he knows whether he was required to file.
Mr. SCRIBNER. That is not-Mr. ELCONIN. You asked if the law required it. It is not the same.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will put it this way, if there is any doubt about what it is. Were you required to sign a non-Communist affidavit during the period you were a field organizer for the UE? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELCONIN. As a matter of record, I did not file such a nonCommunist affidavit and wasn't required to do so. I was advised I was not required to do so.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period you were a field organizer, you were not employed in the shop or in the industry. That is true, isn't it?
Mr. ELCONIN. I would think that was more or less self-evident. A field organizer is an organizer. A worker in the shop he represents works in a shop. Is there much question about that?
Mr. TAVENNER. You are aware of the fact, are you not, that this committee has inquired into the reasons for the act being construed in such a manner as to relieve officials of the union from qualifying under the Taft-Hartley Act in the sense of signing a non-Communist affidavit?
Mr. ELCONIN. I am not aware of any such thing. When did you start this inquiry?
Mr. TAVENNER. You are not aware the committee started it in 1949?
Mr. ELCONIN. I have never heard of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have never heard of that ?
Mr. ELCONIN. I have not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me explain it to you. because the committee found that the Atomic Energy Commission was construing the law in such a way as to require officials of the union who were not employed in the shops to sign non-Communist affidavits, on the theory that it was considered just as important to watch the security of a plant where officials were members of the Communist Party, that is, officials of the union were members of the Communist Party, as it was to see to it that those working actually in the shop were not members of the Communist Party.
Mr. SCRIBNER. May I disagree with you as to the facts. I am fully familiar with this situation. I was involved in a court caseMr. DOTLE. Just a minute. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1725 
Mr. SCRIBNER. It is completely misstating the fact. I am familiar with it, and if you want information I will be delighted to give it to you.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has evidence on that subject, and that.is a matter which this committee has investigated and made reorts to the Congress about. I am inquiring of you about the same ting. 
Mr. ELCOxM . I never heard of this committee's investigation. I read a lot of lurid stories on this committee, but that wasn't one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. You said you were not required, as field organizer of your union, to sign a non-Communist affidavit.
Mr. ELCONIN. The law did not require that. It never has, doesn't now.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking you, during the period of time you were field organizer for the UE, were you a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. ELcoXIN. I mean, do you want to play cute? Go ahead. I have given you my answer to that kind of question. It should be apparent to you by this time, no matter how obtuse you try to appear on this, I am not going to answer that kind of question.
Mr. DOYLE. We don't think that answer is sufficient. Do you state the same grounds you did before?
Mr. ELcoNIN. I certainly do. I state exactly the same grounds for refusing to answer this kind of question. You have absolutely no right to ask it.
Mr. DOYLE. You are entitled to stand on the same constitutional grounds if you state them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us, after you became an international representative in 1950 or 1951, if you signed a non-Communist affidavit? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELCONIN. It so happens I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. When?
Mr. ELCONIN. I signed a non-Communist affidavit, I believe-I am not positive of the date, but it was early in April of this year.
Mr. TAVENNER. Although you had been an international representative for 4 to 5 years, you did not sign the affidavit until this year ?
Mr. ELCONIN. I was not required to sign the affidavit as an organizer or international representative.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that because of the change in the law?
Mr. ELCONIN. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why didn't you sign itMr. SCRIBNER. Do you want to discuss the law with me? There is a history behind this legal proceeding which has just been determined by the National Labor Relations Board which handled exactly that problem. If you want information on it, I am the one person m this country that can give you that information. I was directly acquainted with it, that is all. I am directly acquainted with it.
Mr. SCHERER. YOu are the only person, Counsel?
Mr. SCRIBNER. I handled the case. I did. If you want information, I will give it to you. I was at the last hearing. I offered to give you information and you refused to accept it. 1726 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA
Mr. DOYLE. I am asking you to please comply with the rules of the committee, Attorney Scribner.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I will be delighted to, sir, if there are no legal questions involved where I should answer.
Mr. DOYLE. Counsel is talking with your witness, not with you. (Representative Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. If I understood you correctly, you stated you did sign the non-Communist affidavit in May of 1955.
Mr. ELCONIN. I think I said April. I am not sure of the date, but early April, April 18, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were not required to sign it prior to that time?
Mr. ELCONIN. I wasn't required to sign it then, legally, because the Taft-Hartley board later admitted that itself.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.
Mr. ELCONIN. I voluntarily did so for the sake of our organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time you signed the non-Communist affidavit, were you a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ELCONIN. The same answer, Mr. Tavenner, to obviously the same question, and for the same reasons.
Mr. SCHERER. When you signed that affidavit, when you made that affidavit, were you telling the truth?
Mr. ELCONIN. The affidavit, Mr. Scherer, speaks for itself.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question. 
Mr. DOYLE. We do not accept your answer. I direct you to answer.
Mr. ELCONIN. I am going to refuse to answer that question on the very same grounds, Mr. Chairman, and I resent the innuendo.
Mr. SCHERER. You will not say now whether you told the truth when you swore to that affidavit ?
Mr. ELCONIN. All the implications you seek to put in that question are unjustified. You have no right to question me on the affidavit. It is filed with the United States Government, and it stands and speaks for itself.
Mr. SCHERER. All I am asking you is whether or not you told the truth when you signed the affidavit, or did you swear falsely?
Mr. SCRIBNER. If he did, you could prosecute him, sir. The Department of Justice could prosecute him, couldn't they, Mr. Doyle
Mr. ELCONIN. If you have any evidence I did anything wrong, take care of it through a legal agency.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to call your attention to the violation of the rule with regard to taking pictures while the witness is on the witness stand. That man right there [indicating].
Mr. DoYLE. I did not see any violation.
Mr. TAVENNER. I saw it.
Mr. DOYLE. Did he take pictures?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, moving pictures from behind the post.
Mr. DOYLE. I ask that the camera be taken and unloaded and the film destroyed. From the AUDIENCE. I understood you couldn't shoot pictures with lights.
Mr. DOYLE. You did not ask any such permission. From the AUDIENCE. All right. It is O. K. with me. I will give the marshal my film. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1727 
Mr. DoYLE. Please. We cannot permit any deliberate violation of the rules.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am sorry for the interruption.
Mr. DOYLE. All right. It is a violation of the rules. I am sorry it occurred. Probably it was from a misunderstanding.
Mr. SCRIBNER. We were discussing whether or not there should be a prosecution by this committee or prosecution by the Department of Justice.
Mr. SCHERER. We will get around to that. Many prosecutions arose after people testified before this committee.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I would like to engage in discussion with Mr. Scherer.
Mr. DOYLE. Not here, please. Do it when not in violation of our rules.
Mr. SCHERER. I am asking him whether or not when he signed the Taft-Hartley affidavitYou took an oath, did you not ?
Mr. ELCONIN. You have gotten my answer to that question. You have asked it three times.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. DOYLE. We cannot accept your answer in the present form in which it is.
Mr. ELCONIN. You accepted my answer on the same grounds each time, and I give it again.
Mr. DOYLE. Under the Supreme Court decision, I make it perfectly clear I am directing you to answer.
Mr. ELCONIN. You are refusing to accept the previous grounds? That is what I said.
Mr. DOYLE. All right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to ask you a few questions regarding the Canadian seamen's strike that occurred in 1949. The committee had extensive testimony on this subject at Albany, N. Y., by a very prominent Canadian, and the committee has made an effort in the past and it is still making an effort to obtain what knowledge it can regarding the strike. I have run across a reference to it in the Daily People's World issue of June 29, 1949. The occasion for the reference was the printing in that paper of an article entitled "Violence Denounced-CIO Chiefs Score Terror Used Against Canada Seamen," and there is an article here from which I will read as follows, and then I will hand it to you to see if it refreshes your recollection. The Canadian seamen's strike has some 80 vessels tied up in ports throughout the world. They are demanding retention of their union hiring hall and wage increases. The steamship Argobec is struck in this port. The CSU claims the AFL Seafarers International Union signed a "backdoor" agreement during negotiations between the shipowners and CSU for renewal of contract. As a result of some violence that occurred, it appears that a petition was filed, and among the persons signing the petition was you. I hand you the document for the purpose of refreshing your recollection, and will ask you to tell the committee what aid or assistance 1728 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA was given the Canadian seamen's strike from the State of California in general, and in Los Angeles in particular. (Document handed to the witness. The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELCONIN. If your question is directed toward the matter of union affairs, international matters within the union, that, of course, is not relevant and you have no right to ask the question. If you intend, however, to try to use this to in some way involve me and the activities of people involved in that situation in connection with the inquiry you are talking about now, then of course I refuse to answer that question on the same grounds as previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. So there will be no uncertainty about your position, I will restate the question. I desire to know to what extent aid was given to the Canadian seamen's union strike in 1949 from the west coast by anyone, and so that is my question. Do you have any knowledge of that? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELCONIN. In response to your question, it would appear that you must have some idea in mind of some way linking this thing up with other matters that are supposedly involved in this investigation you are talking about, this inquiry. In view of that fact, since you have something like that in mind, obviously I have to refuse to answer that same question on all of the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you familiar with the circumstances under which the Canadian seamen's strike was initiated or have any knowledge on the subject? (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELcoNIN. I lived in Los Angeles at that time, and the Canadian seamen were in Canada, and I knew nothing about any strike whatsoever.
Mr. TAVENNER. But it was a strike in which 80 ships were tied up all over the world.
Mr. ELCONIN. You know more about it than I do. I don't know how many ships were tied up.
Mr. TAVENER. The article appearing there in which a record of your petition was made-Mr. ELCONIN. Petition against strikebreaking. It didn't say how many ships.
Mr. TAVENNER. It said 80 ships.
Mr. ELCONN. Maybe it did.
Mr. SCHERER. Does that article show that this man signed that petition in connection with the strike?
Mr. TAVENNER. It shows that he signed a petition, along with others, against alleged threats of violence that occurred here in connection with the ship that was tied up. That was what the petition apparently relates to, but in the same article there is a discussion of the Canadian seamen's strike which has tied up 80 vessels, of which one of them was in this port.
Mr. Patrick Walsh-as you will recall, Mr. Scherer, because you were present at the hearing-played a very important part, in fact was one of the key figures in that strike. He testified at Albany that this strike was a political strike which had no bona fide trade union principles involved whatsoever, and that it was being ordered by the Cominform. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1729 
Mr. DOYLE. By what?
Mr. TAVENNER. The Cominform, which is the international organization and which faithfully carries out the dictates of the Soviet Union; that this strike was being organized with the end in view of tying up shipping in ports all over the world so that the Marshall plan shipments would not be delivered in time or the cargoes would rot, and at the same time it was expected to deal a crippling blow to the Atlantic Pact which the Communists were vigorously opposing at that time all over Europe.
Mr. Patrick Walsh had been a member of the Communist Party and was used by the Communist Party in that strike. He testified as to his attendance at a meeting of the Maritime Commission of the Communist Party in Europe where the plans for this strike were discussed, and where the Beaver Brae ship on the Canadian Line was to be the key ship, and its docking in the port at London would be the signal for the beginning of the strike. We have followed that matter very closely, and the reason for asking about the interest being taken in it here is this, or one reason: On the west coast of the United States, Harry Bridges' Longshoremen's Union cooperated in Seattle and and in San Francisco entirely with the Canadian Seamen's Union. Crew members of ships who happened to be at that time in Seattle and in San Francisco were fed by Harry Bridges' Union, and donations were being raised every day by the International Longshoremen and Warehousemen's Union. It is a historical fact that the Marine Cooks and Stewards also openly cooperated and donated financial assistance to the Communistled crews in these two ports.
Mr. SCRIBNER. What has all that to do with him, that he filed a petition charging police brutality ?
Mr. TAVENNER. May I ask that counsel be directed to desist.
Mr. ELCONIN. I would like to ask the same question. I signed a petition against police brutality.
Mr. DOYLE. Our counsel has not finished.
Mr. ELCoNIN. I thought he had.
Mr. TAVENNER. You knew pretty well I had not.
Mr. ELCONIN. I did not.
Mr. TAVENNER. In light of this newspaper statement of the activity in Los Angeles, I want to know to what extent-it is the same question I asked you in the beginning. You didn't seem to understand it, as to why I was asking it.
Mr. ELCONIN. You made clear why.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just a moment. I think now you should understand. I want to know to what extent, if any, there was any assistance given in Los Angeles or any other place in California, if you know, to this Canadian seamen's strike. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. ELCONIN. According to what you have just asked, the assistance which I apparently am accused of giving these people is to try to defend them against force and violence.
Mr. TAVENNER. I haven't accused you of anything.
Mr. ELCONIN. That is what the petition Isigned was supposed to be. I am against force and violence, even if it is used against pickets as and picket lines, and the fact I signed it, I don't know insofar 1730 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA other questions are concerned, since my original suspicion of your intent was cleared by what you said, I reassert the same answer and for the very same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you refuse to answer whether or not you know of any assistance given in this port to the Canadian Seamen's Union ?
Mr. ELCONIN. That is absolutely right. I refuse to answer anything about that topic at all. I think it is apparent you are trying to trap me in something.
Mr. SCHERER. I heard counselor here give him an answer-"It is apparent you are trying to trap me." I am
Mr. SCRIBNER. DO you want me to tell what I said to him the one to know that. I told him, "They don't have to entrap youyou don't have to permit them to entrap you." Is that wrong?
Mr. DOYLE. No effort to entrap him was made and you know it.
Mr. SCRIBNER. If ever I saw it, it was this moment right here.
Mr. SCHERER. There is a rule of this committee which prevents counsel from putting into the mouth of the witness his answer. Please observe it.
Mr. ELCONIN. I would assume, Mr. Scherer, there is general understanding that what the counsel says to me, however, is something confidential between him and me, and your reading his lips doesn't help me any.
Mr. SCHERER. I do not have to read his lips.
Mr. JACKSON. Everything was audible here.
Mr. ELCONIN. You must have read his lips.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I will be glad to do it all the time. I want you to hear it.
Mr. DOYLE. I will be striking your observations from the record pretty soon so they will not appear.
Mr. SCRIBNER. It would not be a public hearing. It would stop being a public hearing.
Mr. DOYLE. You are also apparently trying to make a record for publication, showing attacks by you upon this committee.
Mr. SCRIBNER. I have no interest in that. I am here to defend my client.
Mr. JACKSON. The counsel for the witness is either deliberately or without deliberation violating the rules of the committee, and I will insist, Mr. Chairman, that at the next outburst he be asked to remove himself from the room. Either counsel for the witnesses are going to take over this hearing or the Congress of the United States is going to run it; and so far as I am concerned, the congressional committee is going to run the hearing.
Mr. SCRIBNER. If you don't refer to me, sir, I won't answer anything; but if you say anything that refers to me, I must answer it, and common decency requires it.
Mr. JACKSON. Let us start from scratch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ELCONIN. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds alreadygiven, as I think you know I would have done.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. SCHERER. No questions. 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Jackson ?
Mr. JACKSON. No questions. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1731 
Mr. DoLE. I have no questions. Thank you, Witness, and Mr. Scribner. The committee will stand in recess for 5 minutes. (Brief recess.) (Members present were Representatives Doyle, Jackson, and Scherer.)
Mr. DOYLE. May the committee reconvene, please. I will appreciate the cooperation of you men of the professional photographers. We appreciate the cooperation you have already given us. I am sorry the incident occurred wherein a moving picture was being taken of us which was in violation of the House rules as interpreted by our Speaker. I simply could not permit a violation while testimony is being taken. I know you photographers will not take pictures of the committee or the witness while testimony is in process. Are you ready, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I would like to call Mr. William Kimple, please.
Mr. DoYLE. Will you please raise your right hand and be sworn. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I do.
Mr. DOYLE. Will you please take the witness chair. TESTIMONY OP WILLIAM WARD KIMPLE
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state your name, please, sir?
Mr. KIMPLE. William Ward Kimple, K-i-m-p-l-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kimple, it is noted that you are not accompanied by counsel. You are familiar with the rule that you are entitled to have counsel with you if you desire ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I swore to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, and for that I do not need legal counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Kimple ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was born the 29th day of January 1901, in Chambersville, Pa.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles?
Mr. KIMPLE. I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Los Angeles?
Mr. KIMPLE. I first arrived in Los Angeles in about 1920 or 1921, and except for about a year in 1922 at which time I was in Portland, Oreg., I lived in Los Angeles continuously until 1945, and then I went to San Diego County until about 1952, and returned to Los Angeles and have been here continuously ever since.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Grammar school, high school, and 2 years in college, Bethany, W. Va.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your occupation since 1923 or 1924?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was a police officer in the Los Angeles Police Force from 1924 until 1944, at which time I retired and have been retired ever since. 65500-55--pt 3--5 1732 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. When you first became a member of the police force, were you given any special type of training ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was sent to a police school for 3 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. After returning from your course in police training or schooling, what assignment did you receive as a member of the police force?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was assigned to the Intelligence Squad of the Los Angeles Police Department.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you remain on assignment to that squad for a considerable period of time ?
Mr. KIMPLE. For the entire duration of my time in the police department.
Mr. DOYLE. How many years was that?
Mr. KIMPLE. Twenty years, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, without going into detail, what your first assignment was?
Mr. KIMI'LE. To investigate the activities of the Industrial Workers of the World.
Mr. TAVENNER. In order to perform that function were you advised to try to become a member of it? 
Mr. KIMPLE. I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. And did you become a member of it ?
Mr. SIMPLE. I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Time does not permit me to ask you further ques- tions regarding the activities of that organization, but were you subsequently required by the police department to seek membership in another organization ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What organization was that ?
Mr. KIMPLE. The Communist Party. At that time it was the Workers Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did that assignment begin?
Mr. KInrLE.. July 1928.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did it end ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I believe in.September 1939.
Mr. TAVENNER. So for a period of 11 years, you were in the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. I was a member of the Communist Party for 11 consecutive years; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you say you were a member of the Commu- nist Party, do you mean to say that you were a member in the sense that you joined the organization at the instance of your superior, but that you were not an ideological member of the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. That is correct; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what positions you reached in the Communist Party
Mr. KIMPiE. I was unit literature agent; I was unit educational director; I was unit organizer; I was the assistant to the Los Angeles County membership department; I was an alternate on the disciplinary committee on the county level.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say your activity in the party continued until September 1939. What was the reason for its termination?
Mr. KIMPLE. At that time I was informed that I was under suspicion of being a police spy. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1733 
Mr. TAVENNER. You were informed that by whom?
Mr. KIaPLE. By Mr. Paul Cline, the organizer of the Communist Party in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did he tell you to do? 
Mr. KIMPLE. Stay away from all Communist Party activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the suspicion of your connection with the police department made known to the rank and file members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. No, sir; not at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give the committee a reason for it?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir. Because of the position which I held, it would have been very demoralizing to the membership of the Communist Party if they knew that the man who had all of their membership records was in fact one of the Hines Red squad.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before I come to the question of your knowledge of Communist Party records by virtue of your position as assistant membership director, if I understood you correctlyMr. KIMPLE. That is correct. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe I should ask you certain other questions regarding the activities of the Communist Party while you were in it. Will you tell the committee, please, what the first organizational effort was of the Communist Party after you joined it in 1928, I believe you said ? What was the first activity that they engaged in; do you recall?
Mr. KIMPLE. I do not recall at that time any definite activity other than the usual Communist Party work such as sale of literature and attempting to recruit other people into the Communist Party and to get into mass organizations and put over the Communist Party line where possible.
Mr. TAVENNER. At that time, back in your early experience in the Communist Party, what was the total membership of it when you first became connected, as far as you could determine ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I believe it was just a little over 100 members.
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1939 when you were suspected of being connected with the city police department, and at the time when you were assistant membership director, will you give us your estimate of the membership at that time ?
Mr. KIMPLE. My recollection is that for the 1939 Communist Party membership registration, the total was 2,886. So I would estimate about 3,000 at the time I left in September 1939.
Mr. TAVENER. You spoke of the interest and the activity of the Communist Party in various mass organizations, and their efforts to recruit members. Will you tell the committee, please, what means used to recruit their members in the early days of your the Communists 2 membership
Mr. KIMPLE. Through personal association and through the conducting of mass meetings, educational meetings, and contact with the factory worker, your shopmate in the factory.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you familiar with an organization or organizations known as TTnemployment Councils ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what way were they used by the Communist Party? 1734 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. KIMPLE. At the time of the depression, the Communist Party organized the Unemployed Councils as a mass organization in which the Communist Party members were assigned to work, and they would recruit unemployed workers into the Unemployed Councils and go before the relief organizations, and so forth, and try to get better relief for them. And to impress upon the people the militancy of their organization, they would turn on the gas and electricity after the constituted authorities had turned it off; they would move the furniture of evicted workers back into the houses after they had been legally evicted; and they would stage picket lines and mass demonstrations in front of relief organizations.
Mr. JACKSON. Would they also do these things for one who resisted recruitment into the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. If they would join the Unemployed Council, they would.
Mr. JACKSON. The reason I asked that question is because there was testimony in San Diego, last year, to the effect that all went well with the party or with the party line; but that in other instances where the need was equal, if there was resistance, say, in the organization, if anyone spoke out against the Communist Party as such, it was impossible for him to get relief baskets or anything of the sort. I wondered whether there was a parallel here or not.
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, sir, I was not a member of the Unemployed Councils, and I cannot give you firsthand information on that.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to observe the work of the Communist Party within the Workers Alliance in that period?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir. That organization was an organization which was an outgrowth, outcropping, from the Unemployed Councils. It was the same program, same policy.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the Communist Party use those organizations as a base for recruiting membership into the Communist Party
Mr. KIMPLE. It was done to a great extent; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. To what extent was that means of recruiting successful?
Mr. KIMPLE. It was very successful, sir, as the figures which I have Just quoted would indicate, because many of the recruitments came through the Workers Alliance, and the Communist Party in Los Aneles grew by leaps and bounds. r. TAVENNER. Did the Communist Party also expand its organizational efforts to the persons who had served in the Armed Forces of the United States?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that organization known as, the resulting organization?
Mr. KIMPLE. It was an organization here in Los Angeles known as the Workers Ex-Servicemen's League, which attempted to recruit servicemen from the Armed Forces.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was responsible or what group was responsible for the initiation of that movement-the organization
Mr. KIMPLE. In Los Angeles, the Communist Party was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee just what was done in the way of activity in that organization ? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1735 
Mr. KsIPLE. The Communist Party assigned certain of its Communist Party members who were ex-servicemen into the forming of this organization. The organization met regularly and carried on considerable propaganda in favor of the (Workers) Ex-Servicemen's League, and there were many of them recruited into the Communist Party, and they carried on work within the Communist Party to the extent of drilling Communist Party members in Army tactics to be used in combating the constituted authorities.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you mean the Cossacks?
Mr. DOYLE. Do you mean right here in Los Angeles ?
Mr. KIMPLE. In Los Angeles, yes, sir; Boyle Heights Cooperative Center, 2706 Brooklyn Avenue.
Mr. DoYLE. When you say "constituted authorities" do you mean the Communist Party drilled citizens who were members of the Communist Party, if need be, to resist the police ?
Mr. KIMPLE. I mean the police, yes, sir, in Los Angeles.
Mr. DOYLE. You mean drilled them in military formation ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. DoYLE. What year was that ?
Mr. KIMPLE. That was, I believe, in the early 1930's.
Mr. DOYLE. Were the drills in secret or out in the open ?
Mr. KIMPLE. They were in the building, the Cooperative Center, in the auditorium; drilled both men, women, and children.
Mr. DOYLE. And were they equipped in any way with ammunition?
Mr. KIMPLE. No, sir. 
Mr. DOLE. Imitation guns ?
Mr. KIMPLE. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Who were they drilled by ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Members of the Workers Ex-Servicemen's League.
Mr. DoYLE. Were those men, any of them, using ex-military uniforms when they drilled them ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Not that I can recall, other than many people at that time were using the Army shirts and trousers, but they did notMr. DOYLE. You say drilling people. How young were the children?
Mr. KIMPLE. In the teen ages, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Junior and senior high school?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. About how many hundred of them would be drilled that way?
Mr. KIMPLE. Do you mean of the children ?
Mr. DOYLE. The total.
Mr. KIMPLE. They had various drills at different times when different Communist Party members would be present, and I would say maybe 150 to 200 people at that time would attend.
Mr. DOYLE. Did they receive any oral instructions as to what to do to resist the constituted authorities? In other words, they were drilling for what purpose ?
Mr. KIMPLE. For the purpose of forming defense for the Communist Party activities.
Mr. DOYLE. What were they instructed to do, if you know, against the constituted authorities ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Well, sir, slightly aside from this drilling in the Cooperative Center, at the times of demonstrations which were 1736 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA organized by the Communist Party here in Los Angeles, defense squads were organized and they were instructed to surround the speaker and to attempt to keep the constituted authorities from enforcing the laws, which is telling them to move on or not to hold meeting where they are not authorized to do so; and the women were instructed, I remember times, to carry umbrellas and to use them against the red squad." The men said if they were carpenters, to wear their carpenter's urnform and to have a hammer in the position where a carpenter usually carried a hammer, and to have any means of defense that they could do so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Kimple, I hand you an original document and ask you to examine it and state whether or not you can identify it.
Mr. DoYLE. Mr. Tavenner, before he answers that question, may I ask one more question on that What were the children instructed to do, if anything, these junior and senior high school children-the teenagers? What was their part in resisting constituted authorities?
Mr. KIMPLE. The children, sir, received their instructions through the Young Pioneers and the Young Communist League, and I was not there and did not hear their direct instructions, so I would rather not comment on it.
Mr. DOYLE. We just want what you know of your own personal knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. My question was, can you identify that document; and if so, will you tell us what it is?
Mr. KIMPLE. This is an outline which was presented to the unit organizers in the functionary meetings of the Communist Party, to be taken to the Communist Party units to give instructions to the Communist Party members.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you transmit that copy to your superior?
Mr. KIMPLE. I believe I did. I received these copies, and I gave my superior officer copies of everything I obtained. Whether or not I gave him this particular one, I couldn't say.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. DOYLE. It will be received and marked as the exhibit described. (The exhibit referred to is as follows:)
Mr. TAVENNER. At the end of this outline for discussion, Mr. Chairman, appears an information blank which is called to the attention of all unit organizers, and in which it is said on the blankPlease give full details here about servicemen who are friends or relatives of party members or party sympathizers; make duplicate blanks for other contacts. This information will be carefully guarded and steps taken immediately to contact these men. I understood you to say that that was discussed in your organizers' meetings with direction of the organizers to take that back to their various groups or cells of the Communist Party.
Mr. KIMPLE. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know to what extent the suggestions in there were carried out or attempted to be carried outt
Mr. KIMPLE. I know that committees were sent to visit the ships in the harbor at San Pedro, and I know that there were assignments of Communist Party members to join the National Guard. I know that COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1737 KIMPLE EXHIBIT NO. 1 Discussion Outline: WORKIN TEL A.jDFO1CAS N'a W.F. HY J-* . Relation of armed forces to Working Class A. Come from ranks of workers (workers, poor farmers, small middle class) B. Many Joined beouuse of economic orsits, unemployment,inseourity. C. Have families ook home suffering,struggling for existence. D. Have own grievances similar to those of other workers. E. Potential revolutionary role of armed forces. 1. Armea uprising of workers must have support of armed forces. 2. workers must win support of soldiers end NJtional Guard for all strikes and demonstrations.(Ixample---Petrograd garrison of 110,000 men revolted and Joined workers demonstrations on first day of February Revolution 1917. revolt eotemkin of sailors in devolution of 1905. 3. British nav.l mutiny at Invergorden.Sootland,1931.against payouts. 4. Strike of sailors on De Zeven Provinolen, Dutoh oruiser, Fab. 1933, against wade-outT. S. Recent mutiny on HS Hood en route to North Sea. II.How the government uses the armed forces. A. To suppress atrikes, demonstrations. et. (Nat.uard used in strikes in Illinios; army used against Bonus Army in Wash.) Threat of sending militia against California cotton strikers.) B. To enforce imperialistic rule in colonies; acquire new colonies. C. To serve as cannon fod.er in imperialist war. D. To protect property of imperialists in foreign countries. III. Armed forces in our seotidn. A. Bulk of U.S. Navy concentrated around Long Beach, San Pedro. B. Marine b.sa, Naval Training Station, Air Station. San Diego. C. Fort jacarthus. S-n Learo. Important ooase artillery post. D. arsh Field, Riverside. 1000 men, air corps. E. National Gu-rd in L.A.. Long Beach. Sen Pedro. San Diego. atoe F. ROTC in hidh schools and colleges. IV. Essential fcots, on Navy. (tor N.G. a army see future outlines.) A. Listed personnel--79,7CO 42.000 1. Ages -- under 25. 38,797. Over 25. 2. Color -- White, 76,018. Filipino, 4.133. Negro, 441. 3. In Sept. 1932, 448 ships in commission 148 combatant ships 107 fleet service or speolal duty 120 shore activities 28 training naval reserves 45 ocmbatont, in reduced commission, being modernized. 4. In active service 11 battleships. 19 cruisers, 3 aircraft carriers, 78 destroyers, 66 submarines. 5. New snips now under construction 4 heavy cruisers, 1 airorfit carrier, 2 destroyers. Y. Conditions of men. A. Sinoe crisis less men leaving service because of less chance of getting Job on outside, more men re-enlisting than ev3r. B. Government out out re-enlisting bonus thru at of Congress. (Bonus is 4 months extra pay givon for i mediate re-enlistment after first term is up.) This was biggest single cut ever given men. C. Men doing work of higher rote without promotion or raise in pay. 1738 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Araed Forces discussion outline.... page 2 W B. 1. MAut make 94% on examinations for promotion instead of 75% as before. Years in service do not count for promotion. Cash awards for rifle sharpshooting abolished;clothing allowance reduced (for Marines, from about $97 to about $27.) F, Sailors do work o civilians (repairs,etc.) at andlors pay. 2. VI. Our tasks. A. Maas visiting of ships, army posts, by workers organizations. se ourselves with armed forces and their problems. B; Fliliari 0. Make contracts 1. Approach servicemen as workers in uniform, make friends, find out conditions of their families; find out if man or his family have any connootion with labor movement. 2. Have group of qpmraees maintain continual porrespondpoe . and personal oontao with servicenn. OC Form groups of men to initiate struggles ogcinst grievances. D. Organize study groups of clss-conscious servicemen to study theory of revolutionary movementS invite mon to our mootings, affairs, oto. (not in uniform) Ne Oat news of grievances, news items, for Western Worker, Young Worker, and other papers in workers preas. INFCMLTTION BLANK Attention unit organizers Please gave full details here about ser vicemen rho are friends or relatives of Party members or Party sym pathisors. Make duplicate blanks for other contacts. This infora tion will bo carefully guarded, and steps taken innediately to contact these meon Branch of service NAME Address of ship, post or rosorve headqunrtors - _"- Present rating sovice ? How long in Any knowledge of labor novonont? Family background __ lame of comrad who knows him_____ (This is most important. It is inposslble to cgt .cquclnod with sorviconan unless rm can refor to a nutur.l friend.) Is there anyone in the unit hose previous experience ospacilly fits hin for contact work among servicomon, or for jcining National Guard? Wsme ______ _ -- Address when the National Guard was entraining to leave for camp, that the Communist Party had literature there to distribute to the men. Those are instances that come to my mind right now of activity along that line.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall who was in charge of the enforcement of this general program within the Communist Party?
Mr. KIMPLE. I remember a man by the name of Harry Buchanan as being one of the leaders in that ex-servicemen's group, or was that the intent of your question, sir? COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1739 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know or can you recall the name of the person who was in charge of infiltration, of which you spoke just a moment ago, in the National Guard and other military groups?
Mr. KIMPLE. I do not recall any commission having charge of that other than the organizational apparatus of the Communist Party in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were referring a moment ago to this program in the Armed Forces being submitted to the unit organizers. Now I have before me what purports to be a report of a meeting of unit organizers held on July 12, 1932, as to this one. I hand it to you and ask you if you can identify it as a report of a meeting of organizers. (Document handed to the witness.)
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir, I can.
Mr. TAVENNER. I notice that this report bears the name of units by numbers. For instance, unit 17 and unit 32. Does it contain the names of the organizers of these various units ?
Mr. KIMPLE. The names of the organizers of the units, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I notice unit No. 32 has as its organizer a person by the name of Ward. Can you identify that person ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir; that is myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that your party name ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir, William Ward. Pardon me. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How is that?
Mr. KIMPLE. I said that was not my party name. William Wallace was my party name. William Ward was the name I was known by in public.
Mr. TAVENNER. As far as the Communist Party was concerned, they thought this was your true name, "Ward"
Mr. KIMPLE. That is right; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. But your party name was Wallace ?
Mr. KIMPLE. William Wallace; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I do not desire to offer this in evidence at this time, but I would like for it to be marked for identification only as "Kimple Exhibit No. 2." (See executive exhibit No. 4.)
Mr. DOYLE. While you are getting ready to ask the next question, may I ask the witness one question. The contents of Exhibit 1 worries me. That was the Communist direction and information with reference to the American military and the National Guard, giving the Communists secret information or through secret channels telling them to get in touch with American military and giving the number of Negro members, four hundredsome-odd, and 76,000 whites, and so forth. What was the Communist Party interested in distributing that sort of secret information for?
Mr. KIMPLE. Sir, the Communist PartyMr. DOYLE. Was that right in Los Angeles?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. What concern was it of the Communist Party ?
Mr. KIMPLE. The Communist Party, sir, was endeavoring to influence the Armed Forces of the United States to revolt against the United States and join the forces of the Communist Party-inspired revolution and fight against the capitalist system in the United States. 1740 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. DOYLE. You mean to use force and violence as they had in Russia to overthrow our constituted government ?
Mr. KIMPLE. We were told in the Communist Party, sir, that that was the only way that we could achieve communism in the United States.
Mr. DOYLE. You were told that right in Los Angeles ?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. What year was that?
Mr. KIMPILE. Those instructions were, I believe, in 1934, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. One reason I ask that, it is manifestly for the benefit of you people who have been here today and yesterday and heard some of these known Communists, that is, some known to us, plead the amendments, and so forth.
Mr. SCHERER. I think another observation that might be made in line with what you say, Mr. Doyle, is to recall that some of these members who have admitted membership in the Communist Party say that they never knew that the Communist Party was dedicated to the overthrow of this Government by force and violence.
Mr. DOYLE. That is right.
Mr. SCHERER. Or some of the apologists for the party to contend that to be true.
Mr. DOYLE. I cannot help but notice by expressions on faces, and so forth, from time to time in these meetings when your friends visit us while at work, that some of you condemn our committee and some of you are cynical about what we are doing, some of you do not think it is cricket, some of you think we are wasting taxpayers' money. I can tell by evident expressions on faces, and otherwise, by demonstrations, some of you are in sympathy with some of these people that we identify as Communists. But may I say to you, I think probably I have as much reason as any person in this room to feel this way. When it affects your own family with death in the Armed Forces you feel differently, if it is the result of Communist aggression. This committee is not only in possession of sworn testimony like this, of reputable citizens, all across the country, but for years we have had this sort of sworn testimony, and this committee is not after the past or present Communists who are on the periphery of the thing. We and the FBI are after those who are advocating force and violence to overthrow your constitutional government and ours. That is the danger of the Communist conspiracy. That is why this committee is working hard to try to cooperate with the other segments of the Government, your Government and mine, to expose the conspiracy. Right here in your own city is this condition of where the Communist Party right here under your nose, was circulating secret material to try to influence the American military-that is, those who might be susceptible-to think in terms of doing what they did in Russia to overthrow constitutional government. Thank God we have no reason to try to do that here like they did over there. I felt I should make this statement in view of this sworn statement from this respected police officer. May I say one more thing. I think I mentioned it yesterday or the day before. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, when I went to Asia last time and Europe, we questioned the highest American officials there and foreign intelligence. They said the same thing this man said on the stand. In Europe, Asia, the Philippines, China, COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 1741 Korea, this underground conspiracy in the United States today that you have heard some testimony about, emanates from over there and is part and parcel of the same conspiracy. I felt that your friends in the audience should have that statement from me as chairman in connection with this sort of testimony.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you another document entitled "Special In- structions." Will you examine it, please? (Document handed to the witness.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state what it is? 
Mr. KIMPLE. That is a set of instructions which were issued to the same channels as I mentioned before, through the unit organizers, functionaries' meetings, and it was for the protection of the Communist Party members and apparatus while they were functioning as such, and for the protection of the Communist Party records against seizure by constituted authorities.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence, and ask that it be marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 3." (See executive exhibit No. 27.)
Mr. DoYLE. It will be so received and so marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. This document is entitled "Special Instructions for Efficient Party Apparatus, Protection of Comrades, Preparations for Illegality, Conduct of Comrades."
Mr. DOYLE. Is that right here in Los Angeles?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. [Reading:] Our unit meetings can be made alive and interesting if 90 percent of the time is used for Marxist-Leninist education and discussion of party campaigns, and no time of the meeting is spent on doling out to each comrade endless amounts of tickets, Western Workers, leaflets and other assignments. These practical steps are vitally important and they can be handled easily as follows: I.- section (a) deals with the division of the Communist Party unit into squads of 3, 4 or 5 each. I shall not read that. III. Functionaries are instructed (a) to keep all membership lists in a safe place and in cipher or code (see attached for simple methods of cipher). By the way, did you have charge of the membership lists yourself? Did you have the membership lists of the Communist Party in your own possession ?
Mr. KIMPLE. During the years of 1936, 1937, and 1938, and 1939, I did; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. The next instruction: No records of any kind to be kept in headquarters offices. Whatever is needed for work there during the day should be taken away at night. I assume you lived up to that requirement.
Mr. KIMPLE. I did, sir, and kept them in a safe place, the police department. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then the last page is a simple type of cipher or code to be used in the form of a code for communication which I shall not attempt to describe. Was it the practice of the Communist Party to issue what was known as organization letters?
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe they usually called them org. letters.
Mr. KIMPLE. That is correct. 1742 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to present an organizational letter to you and ask if you can identify it as one issued to you. (Document handed to the witness.) 
Mr. KIMPLE. Yes, I recognize that as a Communist Party organizational letter which was issued through the organizational apparatus of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to offer the document in evidence and ask that it be marked "Kimple Exhibit No. 4." (See executive exhibit No. 31.)
Mr. DOYLE. It will be received and marked.
Mr. TAVENNER. It deals with the subject of hunger marches, election campaigns, Western Worker Weekly, recruiting drive, and the AFL convention in 1932. I would like to read, for the purpose of showing what efforts the Communist Party was endeavoring to make, the section relating to the AFL convention. What to do: The convention takes place in Modesto on September 19. (1) Send us the names and addresses of delegates who are sympathetic to us immediately. (2) Check up on every possibility for electing sympathetic delegates from A. F. of L., and do not forget to rush in their names so it will be possible to organize a caucus for our insurance bill and other points. Comradely yours, SECnrETA T. What was meant by "Secretariat"?
Mr. KIMPLE. That was the organizational committee of the State.
Mr. DOYLE. Let us stand in recess until 2 'clock. (Whereupon, at 12:10 p. m., the hearing was recessed, to reconvene at 2 p. m., of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION--JUNE 30, 1955
Mr. DOYLE. The committee will please come to order. Again this afternoon the hearing room is occupied by more citizens than in the morning, and I know we will have your cooperation in keeping as quiet as you may, please, with no outbursts of either approbation or disapproval of anything that is said. Let the record show that the full personnel of the subcommittee is here, Congressman Scherer, of Ohio; Congressman Jackson, of California; Congressman Moulder, of Missouri; and Congressman Doyle, of California. Are you ready, Mr. Tavenner I
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM WARD KIMPLE-Resumed
