Mr. WHEELER. Where do you presently reside?
Mr. FLEURY. 4524 Coldwater Canyon, North Hollywood.
Mr. WHIIEELER. You are not represented by counsel? FLEURY. IMr. NO. 
Mr. WHEELER. Do you desire to be?
Mr. FLEURY. What for?
Mr. JACKSON. I should like to make a little preliminary statement here, Mr. Fleury, and that is that you are under no compulsion to answer any of the questions directed to you. You have the protection of the fifth amendment if you wish to claim it against possible self-inerimination. However, the measure of your cooperation with 2061 2062 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY the committee in answering its questions will largely determine the future course of the committee so far as you are concerned. I simply make that statement in order that you may be advised of your constitutional rights, the fact that you are not compelled to answer questions in the absence of counsel.
Mr. FLEURY. My intent, of course, is to be as cooperative as I possibly can. That is natural.
Mr. JACKSON. Thank you.
Mr. WHEELER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. FLEURY. I was born in what is now a piece of Glendale, then called Tropico, Calif., May 29, 1913.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you relate your educational background.
Mr. FLEURY. California public schools through Sacramento High School, Sacramento Junior College for 21/2 years, approximately 3 years at Chouinard Art Institute. I say "approximately" because I worked part of the time, my last semester that I was there.
Mr. WHEELER. When did you leave Chouinard Art Institute?
Mr. FLEURY. This must have been 1936, I believe. It would be 1935, 1936.
Mr. WHEELER. How are you now employed ?
Mr. FLEURY. I am an instructor at Art Center School.
Mr. WHEELER. That is at 5353 West Third Street, Los Angeles, Calif.?
Mr. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. WHEELER. How have you been employed since leaving school?
Mr. FLEURY. Leaving school, my first job was an instructor in the training school of Walt Disney Studios.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you give the approximate years.
Mr. FLEURY. Well, I was at Disney's for between 41/2 to 5 years. Approximately the last year of this was on production on Fantasia. At that time, why, we can call it I was canned, or there was a layoff-it started as a lay-off and I quit. I drew about 2 months' unemployment insurance and went to Warner Bros. as a background painter. It was called Leon Schlesinger at that time. I was there until I went in the Army in April 1943.
Mr. WHEELER. When were you discharged from the Army?
Mr. FLEURY. February 1946.
Mr. WHEELER. Your rank in the Army?
Mr. FLEURY. I finally made T-5.
Mr. WHEELER. You were honorably discharged?
Mr. FLEURY. Absolutely.
Mr. WHEELER. What has your employment been since your discharge from the Army?
Mr. FLEURY. I will keep the history going. Upon my return to California, I was discharged at Fort Dix, N. J.: I did nothing for I think, a couple of months and then my wife and I went to Mexico, more to kind of knit my tattered nerves after the Army thing more than anything else. I believe we were there approximately 5 to 6 months. Now, this I am not sure of. In any case we returned during the summer and was then offered the position instructing at Art Center School and, of course, started my work there in the fall term, September of 1946, I believe it was.
Mr. WHEELER. Does that bring your employment up to date? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2063 
Mr. FLEURY. Yes. I have been with Art Center except for a year off when we went to Europe and worked on a motion picture there.
Mr. Adams kind of gave us a leave of absence.
Mr. WHEELER. Mr. Fleury, have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, it was at the time that I suppose I had some sort of association with it, it would constitute membership. It was, I believe, called CPA then, Communist Political Association.
Mr. WHEELER. What year was it?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, this would be previous to the Army thing, so it would be-actually I believe it was 1943. These times and dates, by the way, are going to be off one side or the other, because like most artists I am dopey on them.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall how you became a member of the Communist Party, or the CPA?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, actually I don't. It seemed to be just sort of suddenly you are, that's that. I know I paid dues, of course, and that kind of thing. There was no business of proselyting me or trying to get me in. I think I wanted to be.
Mr. WHEELER. Do vou have a reason for wanting to become a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, at that time; yes; I think I did have a reason. Naturally, being an artist, why, I am fundamentally concerned in not how things are but maybe how things could be. In other words, change people's outlook, change your feelings. And this seemed to he. to me, why, the one concrete, what I would call liberal approach. My interest still was fundamentally that of kind of a philosophical background to my art instead of my political background. In fact, my action then consisted mostly of conversation, and that's about all.
Mr. WHIEELER. Did you remain with this group until you went in the Army ?
Mr. FLEURY. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you give me the date again ?
Mr. FLEURY. The exact date would be-Mr. WHEELER. The approximate date.
Mr. FLEURY. It would be the time I went in the Army. It would be in April of 1943.
Mr. WHEELER. For what period of time were you associated with this group?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, this I can't even pin down. I would say less than a year, or approximately a year at the most.
Mr. WHEELER. That is prior to your entrance to the Army?
Mr. FLEURY. Prior to the entrance in the Army; yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you assigned to any particular group or unit?
Mr. FLEURY. No. I received what you might call no orders of any kind. It seemed to be very casual sort of conversations that at this time I couldn't distinguish between what was a meeting and between a bunch of people sitting around shooting the breeze about the problems of the day. Mostly it was directly related to our profession.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you meet with the same group of people?
Mr. FLEURY. No. It seemed to change.
Mr. WHEELER. How many people comprised this group? 2064 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. FLEURY. Well, it would be like an average evening at anyone's house, varying anywhere from 5 to 15. Actually as far as a stable membership, I was never very conscious of it.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall at whose homes you met?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, one was at our home.
Mr. WHEELER. On how many occasions, do you recall?
Mr. FLEURY. Once.
Mr. WHEELER. Anybody else's home ?
Mr. FLEURY. Yes, although offhand without going through practically a list of acquaintances and so forth, at that time I don't know how I could pin it down. I don't mean that to be a refusal, but it is just mushy and I would like a specific question and I will say.
Mr. JACKSON. I think the specific question is: At whose home did you meet during the course of these discussion groups, or at whose homes in addition to your own.
Mr. FLEURY. That is an awful tough kind of thing-well. There was one, Bill Pomerantz' home.,
Mr. WHEELER. Bill Pomerantz is the former executive secretary of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. FLEURY. I believe lie eventually became that; yes. I always refer to him as a business agent.
Mr. WHEELER. Congressman Jackson advised your wife that the committee undoubtedly has a great deal of information concerning all of these individuals.
Mr. FLEURY. I realize that, sir; certainly.
Mr. WHEELER. I would be very doubtful if any additional names could be supplied by you and I thought that that may make it easier giving your testimony. We realize the circumstances you are under and would like to make it as easy as possible.
Mr. FLEURY. That is why I made my little statement that I would like you, if you could, to ask me a specific name instead of having me go over a whole bunch of things, because it boils down to this, that specifically and in so many words to my own true knowledge I don't know who was or who was not a party member when I was. I actually do not know this.
Mr. JACKSNox. Let me say that there is not necessarily a connotation of membership in the Commnunist Party, or in the CPA attached to the names that you may mention. However, it is the duty and the obligation of this committee to determine the extent of membership and the names of those who were intimately associated with it. The yardstick of cooperation with the committee must necessarily be the extent to which any given individual is willing to cooperate with the committee. The future actions of the committee, when it reaches the city, will lie largely conditioned by the attitude and the extent of cooperation extended by witnesses in the executive hearings. I merely set that forth in order that you may know that we are not concerned with prosecution or persecution but we are determined to get to the bottom of this, and that is the job that has been assigned us by the Congress of the United States. So in that light I ask your full measure of cooperation with respect to people who may be entirely innocent in your eyes but who may even today continue in their membership in the Communist Party unknown to you and represent and constitute a continuing menace. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2065 I say that membership in the Communist Party does not necessarily attach to those whom you may mention. We do require the information and under the anthoritv that is vested in the committee I direct your answer to the questions which are directed by Mr. Wheeler.
Mr. FLEURY. Certainly, Congressman, under those circumstances I certainly shall. Besides Pomerantz the other individuals, Mr. David Hilberman, at his home.
Mr. WHEELER. What is Mr. Hilberman's occupation?
Mr. FLEURY. At present I have no idea. He is no longer in this area.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall his area at that time ?
Mr. FLEURY. Yes. He was in the animation business.
Mr. WHEELER. For Walt Disney?
Mr. FLEURY. I think long ago he had been; yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Was Mrs. Hilberman present?
Mr. FLEURY. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall her first name?
Mr. FLEURY. Lib, I think.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you ever attend a meeting at the home of Edward Biberman ?
Mr. FLEURY. No, sir; never.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know Edward Biberman?
Mr. FLEURY. I ani acquainted with him as a teacher formerly with Art Center School.
Mr. WHEELER. Do vou recall anybody else's home that you attended meetings at?
Mr. FmLi iiR No, sir; I don't. Those are really the only two that I do recall.
Mr. WHrIELER. Do you recall whio attended these meetings?
Mr. FLEU'RY. Well, the individuals mentioned, naturally the homes. Well, they are the stand-outs. I simply don't remember, actually in so many words.
Mr. JACKSON. Iow many meetings did you attend, Mr. Fleury?
Mr. FLEURY. Even that is indefinite, Mr. Jackson. I don't know. I know this, that I certainly was not a regular attendant, if you want to call it that. In fact, I was what would probably be called a very ill-disciplined member.
Mr. JACKSON. You are leaving us with the thought that out of the meetings that you did attend that you have no recollection of any names other than tlme two or three that you have mentioned?
Mr. FLEURY. Definitely and specifically-wait a minute. There is another one. A fellow by the name of John McGrew.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know how Mr. McGrew was employed?
Mr. FLEURY. He was in the animation business, also.
Mr. JAC.KSON. I)o xou know where lie was employed at that time?
Mr. FLEIURY. I bele\c Warner. Bro., or Leon Schlesinger Productions.
Mr. JACKSON. What wia, the procedure uied in calling one of these meetings
Mr. FLEURY. Oh, sometimes telephone-usually just telephone or you bumped into someone who said, "We are getting together on ciich and such a night." 61--93012-- 52-lt 2066 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY
Mr. JACKSON. This was true in the case of all the meetings which you attended?
Mr. FLEURY. All that I went to; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Someone notified you of the meeting either in passing conversation or by a telephone call?
Mr. FLEURY. That's right. 
Mr. WiiEELE. Let's take the meeting at your home Did you notify the people ?
Mr. Fi ar'. No. It was a question where would we meet next week and Bernyce and I said, "Let's meet at our house."
Mr. WIEELER. Where did you reside at that time?
Mr. FLEURY. This was at 1022 Laguna Avenue.
Mr. WHIEELER. What period of time did you reside there?
Mr. FLEURY. Oh, goodness, let's see It would be from 1940 until 1947.
Mr. WHEELER. After you were discharged from the Army did you renew your association with the Communist Party .
Mr. FLEURY. No. I saw some of these people casually but I didn't have any contact with them any longer because actually when I met them any more my interest was not the motion-picture business, I was fed up to here [indicating] with it.
Mr. JACKSON. At the meeting that was held at your home, I assume you received the guests at the door, ushered them in.
Mr. FLEURY. Well, actually, no. In fact, I was busy stirring up a piece of grog at the time.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you recall any who were present at the meeting at your home other than those you have named ?
Mr. FLEURY. No, sir; I do not. That is what I am still trying to cudgel and find and make sure.
Mr. JACKSON. What Communist Party publications have you subwribed to?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, I Suppose it is called now-I guess it always was-People's World, and that's all. Years and years ago-I don't know whether it was a subscription or whether I just bought it at the newsstand-I used to buy New Masses and New Republic, all at the same time.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you completely broken with the philosophy of the Communist doctrines?
Mr. FLEURY. Well, certainly. In the circumstances today.
Mr. JACKSON. The question isn't, of course, as it might sound on the surface.
Mr. FLEURY. Certainly, I know that.
Mr. JACKSON There are a great number of people iho haven't Broken their association. ,\IMr. FLEURY. Congressman Jackson, may I make a remark here?
Mr. JAClKSOu . Of course.
Mr. FLr'un. This is not just greased-pig stuff on my part when I say that my fundamental attraction to the party was not as a political party at all. It was fundamentally an endeavor at that time by many of us who were for the first time artists thrown into industry to try to arrive at some soit of adjustment between our personal problems brought up as artists and the problems of these fields that we were found in. In order to resolve that, we looked anywhere and every- COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2067 where for any kind of thing that would help us out. So, there was a certain commnion examination among these people with respect to that particular problem, which was, I remember, the essence of all meetings, and my sole interest in them. To that degree, wily, I found at that time some, what I felt were, fairly helpful and valid ideas. I don't know whether they were tile ideas as stiel or simply the opportunity to disciiu them and air them and dtll ss what to us was a very important problem. AMrJACKSON. In tie light of what lias ince tral'iilllred, do you feel that there is any field of free explresion and self-determination for the arti-t ill coimmuniim
Mr. FLEURY. No; I certainly do noll. III fact, I found that, I think, one of the r-aN oni why a very conscious and avid interest never developed on imn part ill following this thing through was because the basic philosophy in approaching the problem of an artist and his role in society wa entirely counter to that which I was able to think or that made enie
Mr. JACKSON. What steps Hwere evel taken by anyone with respect to your work in the discussion group which might lead you to believe that an effort w as being made to influence your work, to give it, shall we say, a social message
Mr. FLIA Ry. Absolutely none, sir.
Mr. J.AKSO-N. There ila no1 effort on the part of anyonell MIr. FLI URY. No, -ir.
Mr. J.ACKSON ' A . Fleiy i as stated that sh e had disagreements with Bibeiian-Mr. FLEI RY. Yes; I had heard ailout them, too.
Mr. .1 X'KSON (continulig). Over the approach of the artist to his w ork. I wondered \\ hether you held any discussion with Mr. Biberman or anyone el-c in which that philosophy, as it pertains to the artist and iis' work, wa, advanced.
Mr. Fi.LE'RY Yes: I think that on occasion the orthodox view, because natural\ it was also prominent in the literature which-I can't i-Plekhanov; I don't remember who it was; lie was even rebel ,-1ppo-ed to have been the great orthodox Marxist boy on art criticism. And thii to me was just simply, if you will pardon the expression, a red Iag. because I didn't believe it.
Mr. J.1\K-ON. Did lie addre-s at alnl tune a discusi-on group? Oil. no. He is dead long ago, 1890, or something
Mr. Frviity. like thliat. 01 right at the time of the so-called Russian Revolution. Pardon inil abysmal ignorance on that point.
Mr. J.CKiisiO
Mr. Fi,:m-R. That'- all i ight.
Mr. J\( KSiN Was it the cutoni to invite people in to talk to the lssion gioup oni o (caion on varioI, phases of art ? dl< l
Mr. FiuExRY As I remember, no. This was all sort of a selfcontained thling right within itself. We would bounce off each other as sounding boards. isumethat, in common with many of the AmeriMr. JACKSON. I a can people, a great number of people. you followed the activities of this committee o( far as the witnesses we have had before un are concerned ?
Mr. FLEURY. Inl a general wayi, yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you at any time met any of those who have been called as witnesses before the committee? 2068 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. FLEURY. To my knowledge now, no; never. In fact, many of them I never heard of before until during the history of this thing when their names have become prominent.
Mr. JACKSON. But you have not met on any occasion any of the witnesses we have had before us? John Howard Lawson?
Mr. FLEURY. No, sir; I don't believe I ever met him.
Mr. JACKSON. V. J. Jerome ?
Mr. FLEURY. No, sir. I never even heard of him.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you ever meet any motion-picture people at these meetings? I am not talking about the cartoonists or those immediately concerned with animation. Were there any other fields of the motion-picture arts or the entertainment world in general represented at these meetings or was the membership strictly limited to those who were more or less and in one way or another connected with animation?
Mr. FLEURY. It was purely animation, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. It was purely animation?
Mr. FLEURY. IIn fact, I think that we were probably considered pretty useless and not a very-how would you call it?-solid party unit by any manner of means, and we were very carefully kept segregated.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the amount of dues you paid, and how were they paid, on a monthly basis?
Mr. FLEURY. As I remember, it was a monthly basis and it had to do with the amount of your earnings. I know ours, at least mine, were damn small.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you also pay dues for Mrs. Fleury?
Mr. FLEURY. She paid her own.
Mr. JACKSON. To whom were the dues paid ?
Mr. FLEURY. I think on occasion, why, Pomerantz would pick them up, or someone. I don't know. Those major four seemed to be the ones who mainly collected them. Actually, I think that I was in arrears for most of the time that I was there. I think I only paid about twice.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you recall about the amount of your dues?
Mr. FLEURY. As I remember, mine was under $3.
Mr. JACKSON. A month?
Mr. FLEURY. Yes. Very slight.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you asked at any time to introduce into the group any other person or persons?
Mr. FLEURY. Not in so many words; no. There was none of tho business of us going out and selling. If we felt that anyone might possibly be interested, why, we were to invite them to come around. I never found anyone.
Mr. WHIIEELER. Were you ever given any assignments by this group ?
Mr. FLEURY. No, sir. Mi'. WrIIELE. Sticlh as a book to read on which to give a lecture ;ia a future meeting?
Mr. FLEURY. No, sir.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know Francis de Erdely ?
Mr. FLEURY. No, sir. Only as a naie I read in the newspapers and as an artist and teacher here in town.
Mr. WHEELER. This John McGrew, is it M-c G-r-e-w?
Mr. FLEURY. Yes, sir. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2069 
Mr. WHEELER. You were at one time an instructor at the People's Educational Center; is that correct ?
Mr. FLEeURY. Oh, for a few weeks 1 went over to the life class for about 8 weeks. I think it was. Alr. WHEELER. Do you recall who requested that you assume this position ?
Mr. FLEURY. I tlink it was actually the fellow who was secretary. or something, of the school, called me because he had heard somehow that I was a life teacher and the actual person that was scheduled couldn't make the thing and I was agreeable to the thing.
Mr. JACKSON. Wlho was the individual in charge at that time?
Mr. FLEURY. It is a name I don't remember. It would have to be-in fact, I don't even remember the dates when I did teach these things. If you can tell me the dates, why, maybe I can find out generally or think back and see if I can find out what his name was.
Mr. JACKSON. Who was-in charge? That is, who was in direct hliarge of the People's Educational Center?
Mr. FLEI'RY. That is the name I can't remember, sir. It was the secretary that was in charge of the school. A young guy, and I don't remember his name.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall if this individual was Sidney Davidson ?
Mr. FLEURY. I believe so.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you subscribe to the People's Daily World ?
Mr. FLEURY. You mean at this time?
Mr. WHEELER. No, at the time during your membership.
Mr. FLEURY. Before the war, certainly.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall how you were solicited to subscribe for this paper?
Mr. F.EURY. Well. actually I have been buying it on the newsstand and just took a subscription because it was easier.
Mr. WHEELER. At these meetings you attended did they sell literature ?
Mr. FLEURY. Oh, yes, sure; there was always something being brought around.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall the nature of this literature?
Mr. FLEURY. It would be the People's World; it would be New Masses magazine-that kind of thing.
Mr. WHEELER. I have no further questions at this time, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to make the recommendation that either
Mr. Fleury or Mrs. Fleury testify at the hearings starting September 17. At the present time my personal reaction is that perhaps Mrs. Fleury should testify.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, it is so ordered. The subpena will be extended, and you will notify her.
Mr. WHEELER. I would like to set the date for Mrs. Fleury for Thursday, September 20, at 2 p. m.
Mr. FLEURY. Congressman, isn't there anyone else in southern California who could do this besides my wife and myself?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Fleury, very frankly-and I am only expressing my own opinion-I am not convinced that the measure of your cooperation has been full and complete. It is inconceivable to me that one person or two people could be associated over the period of a year, 2070 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY attend a number of meetings, including one in your own home, and be unable, out of that association, to remember more than the four or five individuals whom you have named.
Mr. FLEURY. Well, sir, those are the names that I can recall, and I can do no more about that. After all, this was how long ago? Nine years ago?
Mr. JACKSON. That is a matter within your own mind, obviously, over which we have no control. If you sincerely cannot remember more, of course, that is that.
Mr. WHEELER. I want to make the remark that if Mr. Fleury and
Mrs. Fleury discuss this more fully in the next couple of days, and if Mr. Fleury wants to contact me or reappear before us after he has additional time to think it over, perhaps he could testify, rather than his wife, if he desires to do that. It is not our policy to call both the husband and the wife before the committee.
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, the final decision must rest in the hands of the chairman of the committee.
Mr. WHEELER. That's right.
Mr. JACKSON. This is purely a preliminary investigation. I would suggest, pending a discussion with the other members of the committee upon their arrival, that the subpena be held open until such time as the matter can be discussed at greater length with the other members of the subcommittee. If you will, Mr. Fleury, keep in touch with Mr. Wheeler in the event that you change your address, or in order that he may be able to contact you.
Mr. WHEELER. We will let both subpenas remain open until a decision is made.
Mr. JACKSON. It is so ordered; the subpenas will remain open. If in the interim, and after fuller discussion of the matter, there is any further information which you feel you can give the committee, you can communicate with Mr. Wheeler at the Roosevelt Hotel.
Mr. FLERY. I would like very much, instead of asking me to volunteer information, to at least have specific questions that I get a chance to answer, because actually this is so remote and so forgotten that I simply do not remember, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Fleury, the matter of the identification of people who were associated with you in this activity at that time is a matter that is within your knowledge and not necessarily within the knowledge of the committee. I say that much of the information which has already been given is information which is already in the possession of the committee. We are looking for additional information and, quite frankly, information which may not be in the possession of the committee.
Mr. FLEURY. Naturally, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. So far as the identifications are concerned, that is a matter which is entirely within your own discretion. I would hope that upon further consideration-and I realize how repugnant it is to the average person to disclose names, dates, and places; but that is the sum and substance of the things we must have if we are to carry this investigation through to a successful conclusion-again I would hope that after further discussion both of you can refresh your memories to the extent that you can contact Mr. Wheeler and give us some additional information with respect to those who were active COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD 1IOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2071 in the CPA at that time. In the meanwhile the subpenas will be held open and extended awaiting the will and pleasure of the chairman of the committee. The subcommittee will stand in recess until tomorrow morning at 9:30. AFTERNOON SESSION (The following sworn statement of Anne Ray Frank was given at 2:45 p. m. to William A. Wheeler, committee investigator.) STATEMENT OF ANNE RAY FRANK Will you state your full name.
Mrs. FRANK. Anne Ray Frank
Mr. WHEELER. Where do you presently reside?
Mrs. FRANK. 245 Parkwood Drive, Los Angeles 24.
Mr. WHlEELER. You tie appearing before the committee under subpena; is that col rect .
Mrs. FRANK. Yes.
Mr. WHEEI,'ER. Where were you born?
Mr. WtIIEELEi. 
Mrs. FRANK. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Mr. WHEELER. Would you give us a brief r6sume of your educational background.
Mrs. FRANK. Public schools in Pennsylvauia and Los Angeles, and Fairfax High Sc'hool was my last school.
Mr. WHEELER. What has your educational background been?
Mrs. FRANK. I went to work in 1930 foithe Charles R. Hadley Co.; in 1935 I went to work for the Richfield Oil Co. I was at Hadley for I worked a week for Sam 5 years, Richfield from 19:35 to 11942 In 1942 I went to work for MCA as a Goldwyn as a secretary secretary. In 1943 I wiote for radio. Do you want to know wlio I worked foi in radio?
Mr. WHEELER. Please
Mrs. FRANK. 1 was a contributing writer to the F. Hugh Herbert show, Meet Corliss Archei, and I did fiee-lance radio writing for the next year and a half.
Mr. WHrLELR. Are you presently married ?
Mrs. FRANKt Yes.
Mr. WVHEELER. To whoun ale you married?
Mrs. FRANK Melvin Frank.
Mr. WiIEELER. What is Mi Frank's occupationu
Mrs. FRANK. He is a writer. 
Mr. WHLELER. Wlien Mis. FRANK. January married were youi to Mr. Frank? 22, 1944. 
Mr. WHEELER. Ale you known professionally as Anne Ray?
Mrs. FRANK. I was known professionally as Atne Ray; yes.
Mr. WHEEI 1R. Miss Ray, have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mrs. FRANK. Yes; I have.
Mr. WTHEEILER. Do you recall when you first joined the Communist / Party
Mrs. FRANK. Thie exact moth I can't tell you. Somewhere in the spring of 1943. 2072 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall how you were introduced into the Communist Party?
Mrs. FRANK. Through a friend of mine, Mrs. Meta Rosenberg. I was taken to a Commumst Party meeting.
Mr. WIIEELER. YoU subsequently joined the party?
Mrs. FRANK. And I subsequently joined the party.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you assigned to any particular group or unit? 
Mrs. FRANK. No, sir. 
Mr. WHEELER. Did you attend meetings for any period of time
Mrs. FRANK. In 1943 there were two or three meetings that I went to in Hollywood.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall where the,- meetings were held?
Mrs. FRANK. Somewhere north of Franklin near Western.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall at whose home?
Mrs. FRANK. No; I don't. MIr. WHEELER. Do you recall who was present at these initial meetings ?
Mrs. FRANK. No, I don't, simply because these were, I was led to believe, radio people. I never saw them before and never saw them afterward. They were all sti angers to me.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you first assigned to a radio group ?
Mrs. FRANK. Well, I never was formally assigned to anything. There were radio writers' problems discussed here, joining the guild.
Mr. WHEELE,.R. For what period of time did you remain with this radio writers' group?
Mrs. FRANK. I remember two or three meetings, and how long, over what period of time I really couldn't say.
Mr. WHEELER. You don't recall anyone in this first group?
Mrs. FRANK. No. They are all strangers to me. I was working in MCA from 10 o'clock in the morning until 7 in the evening, then I was working, I was writing these radio scripts for F. Hugh Herbert. This was my first entrance into knowing anybody in radio at all. I didn't know radio workers, I didn't know anybody who was working for radio. I wasn't included in a group because this was, if I can phrase it a little bit better-I wasn't officially in radio work. My relationship with F. Hugh Herbert was one in which I assisted him in connection with his literary work.
Mr. WHEELER. You have previously testified that you attended two or three meetings comprised of people in the radio industry. Were you subsequently transferred to another group or did you attend meetings of another group at any time?
Mrs. FRANK. Yes. Three or four months after I joined the party I left for New York. While I was in New York I had no contact whatsoever with the Communist Party or any other political organization. I returned to Hollywood in November 1943, where I resumed my radio work. The pressure of this work and my romantic involvement with the man who has since become my husband precluded my attending party meetings. In January 1944 I was married. Shortly after that I resumed attending meetings. It was then that I first told my husband about my membership in the party. Over his strenuous objections to my membership I continued the meetings. My attendance was occasional and irregular, however, amounting to no more than six or seven in all.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall where these meetings were held COMMUNISM IN HOLLT WOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2073 
Mrs. FRANK. Yes. They were held, with the except ion of perhaps one, at the home of Dalton Trumbo in Beverly Hills.
Mr. WHEELEr. Do oMI recall where the other one was held?
Mrs. FRANK. Yes. The other one was held at the home of Ring Lardner, Jr., in Westwood.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall the names of the individuals who attended these meetings
Mrs. FRANK. Yes. But since at about this time the Communist Party was dissolved and became Instead an organization known as the Communist Political Asciation, and since thie meetings of the association were open and for purposes of recruiting it was impossible then, and it is impossible now, to know just which of these people were party members and which were guests. However, there did seem to le a small group wliho were at all the meetings that I was at. I assumed then, and I assume now, that they were at that time members of thie Communist Party or Communist Political Association.
Mr. WHEELER. Would vno identify these individuals? tMr. Triumbo and Mr. Lardner I
Mrs. FRANK. Well, in addition to would -Iaythis group consisted of Richard Collins, Paul Jarrico, Gordon Kahn, Haiold Buchiman, and Robert Rossen. I also remember being impressed with thile eloquence of two guest speakers, Albert Maltz and John Howard Lawson. lMr.WHEELER. Do you remlneber what iMr.Lawson and Mr. Maltz discussed e
Mrs. FRANK. No; I don't.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you pay dues to this group
Mrs. FRANK. Yes; I did. MIr. WHEELER. Do you recall how much your dues were?
Mrs. FRANK. I was assessed on the basis of my being a housewife and miv dues were 2.7cent, a week, whether I attended the meetings or not. 
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall to whom you paid the money ?
Mrs. FRANK. No; because it was a different person each time. There would be a period of time when someone would be the dues chairman and then there would be another time when someone would be a dues chairman, and I don't recall.
Mr. WHEELER. Are youi related to the former Mrs. Budd Schulberg, now Virginia Veitel .
Mrs. FRANK. Yes. She is my sister.
Mr. WHEELER. DI) you know liet a, a member of the Communist Party?
Mrs. FRANK. No; I didn't.
Mr. WHEELER. Wienll you joined the Communist Party did you use a name other than the name Anne Ray?
Mrs. FRANK. No, sir.
Mr'. WIIEELER. According to tlie records of the committee you were registered in thie (Conmnist Party under the name of Adelaide C(I umley.
Mrs. FRANK. No kidding?
Mr. WHEELER. To the best of your knowledge you have never used the name Adelaide Crumley ?
Mrs. FRANK. Oh, no.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you ever hear it before?
Mrs. FRANK. Never. 93012-52-pt -- 4 2074 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WHEELER. Additional information developed by the committee reflects that in 1944 you were issued CP Card No. 36106. Do you recall of ever having been issued a card'
Mrs. FRANK. No, sir; I don't.
Mr. WVIIEELER. Do you recall registering in the Communist Party?
Mrs. FR NXK.No, sir; I don't. I got a card and I tore it up.
Mr. WHEELER. Thle card was in your real name
Mrs. FRANK. Yes, sir. T
Mr W HEELER. While a member of the Commnist Party do you recall if any literature was distributed during the meetings?
Mrs. FRANK. Yes; it was.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall what literature /
Mr,. FRI'NIXK. People's World, New Masses.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you ever subscribe to the Daily People's World
Mrs. FR \NK. No; I didn't subscribe to it. I might have subscribed to it. I lelnmember mostly buying it at news-tands but I might have sub-cribed to it. I want to be truthful. It is certainly possible that I subscribed to it.
Mr. Wii.iLELR. Were yon ever given an assigilnent by the Commuist Party to make a study of any given subject and later give a lecture 9 on it before thl group
Mrs. FRANK. No, sir.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall what was generally dicu-esed at the'e meetings?
Mrs. FRANK. Well, the evening went something like this: First there would be discussion of the agenda. which was ended and then there would be a discussion of current event. For in-tance, theie would be an analysis of what was presently happening in the war, then a discussion of local problems. I remember particularly one time talking about raising money for the benefit of the Mexicans in the Sleepy Lagoon case, the Sleepy Lagoon Defense Conmminttee. Then we would talk about the elections-this was an election year-and what we could do on a city, State, and national basis to elect candidates of the Democratic Party. 9
Mr. WHEELER. Why did you join the Communist Party, Miss Ray
Mrs. FRANK. In the spring of 1943 the world was at war and I had very strong feelings about the issues involved. I was strongly antiHitler, anti-Mussolini. anti-Franco and pro-Roosevelt. I wanted then what I want now, a better world for the people in it. I believed in Franklin Delano Roosevelt and all he stood for. I was against racial discrimination and for social security, economic security. p ublic health, and universal education. In those days I felt a peculiar sense of frustration at not being able to do enough to bring about this better world. I was led to believe that the Communist Party wanted the same things that I did, and in addition were doing something about it. That is why I joined.
Mr. WIIEELER. Why did you leave the Communist Party?
Mrs. FRxNKi. MVy husband was violently opposed to my membership in the paity. We argued constantly the first few months of our marriage. It was his point that one could be anti-Hitler and pro-Roosevelt, in fact all the things I believed in, without being a member of the Communist Party, an organization which I began to realize was inordinately concerned with the welfare of the Soviet COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2075 Union. I found that I had no answers for the questions he asked, I found no way to justify or reconcile a police state, a controlled press, one-party elections and secret police with the concepts of freedom and democracy, both of which are the main requirements for what I considered to be a decent society. Also, I discovered that tin words "democracy" and "freedom' were just words as far as the Communist Party was concerned. I found nothing democratic in tthe wax the meetings were held. Nothing was ever voted upon hy the membership, we were merely told what the line at the moment would be and that was that. 1 began to find their rigidity of thinking intolerable. I found that anyone w ho in any way differed with whatever the party line happened to b e at tlie moment 'as immediately and automatically termed either a Trotskvite, a Fascist, a reactionary, or a confused liberal. As 1 understand what the structure of the party was, the way it was explained ti, me. was that the mass of the members w ere the bottom elected other member. the pyramid n of a pyramid and as them members got smaller and theie was a guy at the top, Earl Browder. But it never walked that way as far as I was concerned. The masses didn't and then the guy at the head carried out the orders vote on someth i of the people the Nayv the President of the United States does. It came from this guy at the top and trickled down and there it was. and that was that. You got the feeling that if you did vote on somemake a lot of difference anyway. thing it wouldn't 1
Mr. JWI EELLR. When did you completely sever your relationship or your membership in the Communist Party, or the Communist Political Association
Mrs. FuiANK. Some time easily in 1945 after I hadn't gone to meetings for months, Harold Buchman came to my house and asked me why I had stopped.
Mr. WHEELER. What did you tell him?
Mrs. FRANK. I told him I decided to quit the party. Mr. Buchman agreed it was my right to do so and after he left the house I never again had anything to do with the Communist Party or the Communist Political Association.
Mr. WnHEELER. Miss Bay, have you ever been a member of the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee for the Arts, Sciences, and Professions.
Mrs. FRANK. No, sir.
Mr. WhIEELER. Have you ever been a member of the American Youth for Democracy ?
Mrs. FRANK. NO, sir.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you ever a pupil or instructor at the People's Educational Center?
Mrs. FRANK. I took two courses in history at the People's Educational Center.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall the instructor? his
Mrs. FRANK. I recall what he looks like but I don't remember name.
Mr. WHEELER. What did he look like?
Mrs. FRANK. He had an English accent and he wore old-school wore ties and he was a very round guy, had quite a potbelly and peculiar vests. I don't remember his name. 2076 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WHEELER. Have you ever been a member of the Joint AntiFascist Refugee Committee?
Mrs. FRANK. No, sir.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you ever been a member of the Hollywood Democratic Committee?
Mrs. FRANK. No, sir.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you ever contributed to any of the organizations which I have named ?
Mrs. FRANK. Yes. I searched my records and I found that I wrote thile following checks to the organizations you named and to some of the following. The entire list in chronological order is as follows: January 17, 1944, $10 to the Labor Herald; February 21, 1944, $8.80, Sleepy Lagoon Defense Committee; March 4, 1944, $8.15 to the Rusmsan War Relief: March 6, 1944, $2.77 to the Russian War Relief; April 7, 1944, $1U, American Youth for Democracy; June 5, 1944, $5, Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee; June 14, 1944, $12, People's Educational Center; June 1.5, 1944, $5. Hollywood Democratic Committee; and October 5, 1944, '$;, People's Educational Center. That is the list of the organizations to which I contributed and which may now be on the Attorney General's list of subversive organizations.
Mr. WHEELER. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. JACKSON. The witness may be excused. (Whereupon the witness was excused.) (The following sworn statement was then made by Eve Ettinger to William A Wheeler, committee investigator.) STATEMENT OF EVE ETTINGER
Mr. WHEELER. Will you state your full name
Miss ETTINGER. Eve Ettinger.
Mr. WHEELER. Where were you born? 
Miss ETTINGER. New York-Manhattan.
Mr. WHEELER. Your present address?
Miss ETTINGER. 330 South Almont Drive, Los Angeles 48.
Mr. WHEELER. You are here pursuant to subpena; is that correct?
Miss ETTINGER. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Where are you presently employed?
Miss ETTINGER. At Columbia Pictures.
Mr. WHEELER. What is your position?
Miss ETTINGER. I am story editor.
Mr. WHEELER. Will you relate briefly your educational background?
Miss ETTINGER. I graduated from public school and high school.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you relate your employment record?
Miss ETTINGER. I have been employed by Columbia Pictures for, I think, it is 15 years.
Mr. WHEELER. Where were you employed before going to work for Columbia?
Miss ETTINGER. For a short while I was at Paramount as a secretary, then I came to Columbia as a reader.
Mr. WHEELER. For a period of time you were employed in New York City by these organizations?
Miss ETTINGER. By Columbia. Up until May 1945 I worked in New York.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you work for Paramount in New York, also? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2077 
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. I just got out of school.
Mr. WHEELER. Were you a member of the Screen Readers' Guild in New York?
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. I think I was.
Mr. WHEELER. It was also known as the Screen Analysts' Guild, either before the Screen Readers' Guild or after?
Miss ETTINGER. I think so, Mr. Wheeler, I say I think so. I must tell you, because I was a reader for not too long a time. I never thought of it until you brought it up. I forgot that there was a Screen Readers' Guild.
Mr. WHEELER. Miss Ettinger, a witness has appeared before the committee and has given testimony to the effect that the witness knew you as a member of the Communist Party in New York. Would you like to affirm or deny that statement ?
Miss ETTINGER. I was. I have also tried to tell Mr. Gang, my attorney, that I honestly can't remember, and yet I must have had a party card. I do not remember carrying one or having one.
Mr. Wi IFELER. Do you recall whlien you first joined the Communist Party ?
Miss ETTIN(i.'. I have tried to straighten out the dates and discussed this with Mr. Gang in trying to straighten myself out on it. I thought it was about 1936, but it might have been 1935.
Mr. WHIIEELER. For what reason did you join the Communist Party
Miss ETTIXGER. Mr. Wheeler, I will have to phrase it first for you, because I don't know whether this is what you mean. I had nowhat is the word-no goal. All we were hearing around was what was going on in Europe, people being killed, people dying, and meetings being held on every single street corner in New York and advei tisements of meetings being held, "We will tell you why this is going on in the world," and I listened to them and I went to them. Apparently I must have thought this is a way to learn what's going on, this is the way to find out what's happening in the world and what our role is in the world and what the roles were of not only minority groups but people who didn't want to be killed, what we could do to avoid it. I don't know whether that sounds silly now. I thought this was a place-you know, I am a great somebody who likes to sit and listen and have people talk at them. I thought this was a great place to read about the world and history and discuss it. This is what happened, we discussed.
Mr. WHEELER. How long were you a member of the Communist Party?
Miss ETTINGER. Mr. Wheeler, again I will have to say I think it was to 1940. It couldn't have been later than 1941 at the latest, and probably earlier.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you at any time renew your membership in the Communist Party in California?
Miss ETTINGER. No.
Mr. WHEELER. Would you recall whio asked you to join the Communist Party?
Miss ErrINGER. I have been trying hard to do that with Mr. Gang, and even though I said to Mr. Gang I remember the first name of this fellow well, I remember because lie took me to meetings. I don't even know whether he was the instrumental thing that brought me into the party, or whether I did it. 2078 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WHEELER. What was his first name?
Miss ErlINGER. Al. And I remember that very clearly. I remember what lie looked like.
Mr. WHEELER. Describe him.
Miss ETrINGER. A rotund, shortish fellow who apparently had done a lot of reading on his own. Whether lie was a member at the time I don't know.
Mr. WIEELER. Do you recall his occupation
Miss ETTINGER. I think, and this again I have told Mr. Gang, and it is conjecture on my part, I think he was a copy writer. I think lie was writing advertising copy. I may be so wrong on that that I have to say, "I think."
Mr. WHEELER. After you joined the party were you assigned to any particular unit or branch?
Miss E'TINGER. How I was assigned, the form it took, I am not sure of. I know that I think there were originally-I think I did go to meetings with some readers and then I don't know how it happened, whether they left the party or whether they moved out. There were changes. I cannot remember how it changed.
Mr. WHEELER. How many different groups or units were you assigned to during the period of time you were in the part ? Approximately how many ?
Miss ENTTIGER. Mr. Wheeler, may I amend that? I am not sure that the original group was only readers, I'm not sure of that. That, I can't remember. Then there was another group with people coming and going, that's all.
Mr. WHEELER. Just two groups, then?
Miss ErrTTING. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall where any of these meetings were 9 held
Miss ETTIGER. I thought that some of the meetings were held, in good part, in the building on Fourth Avenue. Now, I thlik, it may not be Fourth Avenue-it's Twenty-third Street, which was a headquarters building in New York.
Mr. WHIIEELER. What type of headquarters'
Miss ETTINGER. The party headquarters.
Mr. WIEE.ER. How moany individuals comprised the first group, approximately ?
Miss EriNGuER. I don't know. Maybe four, maybe five. It's hard. I am guessing when I tell it to you.
Mr. WHEELER. How about the second group?
Miss ETTINGER. I think about 10 or 12, with changes, with people coming and going. But I don't think it was larger than that. I don't think so. I have no visual memory on it, which is what disturbs me so.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall anybody who was in charge of these particular groups, either one or the other ?
Miss ETTINGER. I don't think we ever had that formality. I think somebody would say, "We'll get together and sit and talk and read a book and discuss it." I have tried in these last couple of weeks to remember what of party activity was done, what party activity went on, and outside of having fights about the things that appeared in the weekly magazines and the discussions of what was going on in Europe, unless I have just forgotten I can't remember an activity. That seems silly, but I don't. COMMUNIsM IN HOLL\ WOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2079 
Mr. WHIIEELER. You were a member of the Communist Party when the Stalin-Hitler Pact was originated, were you not? That was in 1939.
Miss ETTINGERI. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. What was your reaction to the Stalin-Hitler Pact?
Miss ErrINGER. I thought it was just ridiculous. This is when I really started shouting. This is when I thought the whole thing was just distasteful and 1 couldn't understand it. I felt I had learned nothing and my purpose in going to these meetings was to learn and I felt that I had learned nothing if this is what was going on. I didn't understand it.
Mr. WHIEELER. Wal the necessity of the signing of the StalinHitler Pact explained in any way to you?
Miss ETrINGER. NO. I think I remember reading in the magazine, one of the magazines, whichever it was, whether it was the Communist-International or-what's that magazine?
Mr. WHEELER. New Masses?
Miss ErrTTINGER. Or in the New Masses. One of those magazines, a whole explanation of the party having made a mistake, that they had been saying that such a thing would never happen and they said, "We made a mistake, we apologize," something like that, or "We didn't understand the situation and we have been put straight." I can't even paraphrase the words. This is, you know, what I consid- ered a real joke. Except up to then it had been a period of stress and strain, and this may be what everybody says. I don't know if everybody has this excuse, but mine is not an excuse; it's just the truth. I mean I don't know if everybody who talks to you says, "You know, I never agreed." but I didn't. I was in a constant turmoil of fighting. But it is hard when you do something you are ashamed of, you just don't put your hat on and walk away and say, "Maybe I am not so smart, how do I know all the answers?" So you wait around and listen, and you fight some more, and finally I realized that it was just silly, a silly thing and I agreed with nothing.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you know George Willner in New York City?
Miss ETTINGER. No.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall the names of any of the individuals who comprised these groups which you attended?
Miss ETTriGER. Mr. Wheeler, it's 15 years-it's a long time, it is hard for me to remember. It is something that was a whole unpleasant period of my life that I wanted to forget. I just wish I hadn't waited this long, but I did, and it has just left a whole blank, like questions about groups and things which I can't even remember. I did know Lee Sabinson. I have a recollection of Lee Sabinson disappearing, and I had a feeling that he was gone forever, I don't know. and I have seen him in the years past, lie has come to Hollywood he has produced plays. But there was never a political discussion, never a conservation, but nexer. I had assumed that lie was either out or gone. I know he went to Europe for a while.
Mr. WHEELER. You knew Mr. Sabin-on in these groups?
Miss ETTrINGER. I knew him in the beginning of the group or toward the beginning of the group, yes. I did know Nick Bela.
Mr. WHEELER. That is Nicholas Bela ?
Miss ETTINGER. Nicholas Bela. 2080 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WHEELER. You knew him as a member of the Communist Party?
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. I did know Lester Fuller.
Mr. WIIEELER. Lester Fuller is a writer?
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. I did not know the man as a writer. I had a feeling that Lester Fuller was all through. I had never discussed him. I had a feeling that he was as displeased as I was and then I didn't see him for many years. I met him around Hollywood and said, "Hello." Never-whether lie was avoiding the subject or I was avoiding the subject, just this was a part of inmypast I had wiped out. Then lie was brought into the studio on a job last year by somebody else. I didn't bring him in. I didn't do anything about it. It was many years since I had been in the party. I could assume that it was many years since I hadn't seen him since he had been in the party. How could I go and say to the producer, "You can't hire this man because lie is a party member," because I didn't know. I had no idea.
Mr. WHIEELER. Did you know Martin Berkeley as a member of the Communist Party ?
Miss ETTINGER. For a short time I think I did. In thinking back about Martin, I knew him in New York when he was writing a play with a woman that I knew, whose name I know well because we bought a book of hers-there is no reference of the party-and I thought maybe I knew lin because of that. I thought maybe that was the tie.
Mr. WHEELER. Did vou ever meet John Howard Lawson in New York City'
Miss ETTINGER. Never.
Mr. WiHiELER. Do you recall anybody else that you knew as a member of the Communist Party?
Miss ETTINGER. I recall a guy that I knew as Dave. Some people just call themselves by a first name that I didn't know. I must have been awful naive, because I thought people just knew Eve, too.
Mr. WHEELER. What was Dave's occupation, do you recall?
Miss ETTINGER. No. I didn't know the occupations of most of the group. I doubt very much, outside of the few people that I have discussed with you, that they belonged to any of the companies.
Mr. WVIIEELER. Did you know any actors to be members of the Conmmunist Party?
Miss ETTINGER. You mean stage actors, Hollywood actors?
Mr. WHEELER. Stage actors or screen actors.
Miss ETTINGER. No, I had nothing to do with actors so I wouldn't have come in contact with them.
Mr. VHELER. Most of the people you knew then were readers?
Miss ETTINUER. And later on I knew agents and publishers and some writers, naturally, who came to me.
Mr. WHEELER. I am referring to people in the Communist Party group.
Miss ETTINGER. I'm sorry. No.
Mr. WHEELER. There were no actors in the Communist Party that vou knew?
Miss ETTINOER. Not that I know of.
Mr. WIIEELER. Did you know any agent in the Communist Party? Mis ETTINGER. Not that I know of. You mean literary agents?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes. In New York City.
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2081 
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know any agents that represent people who are members of the Communist Party ?
Miss ETTINGER. You will have to rephrase that.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you know any agents of people in New York?
Miss ETTINGER. No.'
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know any producers to be members of the Communist Party, while in New York City?
Miss ETTINGER. You mean stage producers?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes.
Miss ETTINGER. No. 
Mr. WIIEELER. Do you know any movie producers?
Miss ErrTTINGER. No. I didn't know any movie producers-period, except when people would come on from the East and stop in the office and say "hello." But that isn't knowing them.
Mr. WHEELER. After you left the Communist Party were you ever asked to rejoin?
Miss ETTINGER. I think they were glad to get rid of me, I really do. I was, without realizing it, very troublesome because I used to ask questions and get up and argue, and I guess I was a pain in the neck.
Mr. WHEELER. Did anybody ever ask you to rejoin?
Miss ETTINGER. Nobody ever came near me again.
Mr. WHEELER. Are you acquainted with George Willner?
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. I have to be, because I am a story editor and he came up to my office, and that's how I met him.
Mr. WIIEELER. Did George Willner ever suggest to you that you hire certain people?
Miss ErioNGER. Never discussed a political thing with me.
Mr. WHEELER. That wasn't the question. Listen to the question, please.
Miss ETTINGER. Well, naturally he had a list of writers that he was representing.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you think that George Willner knew that you were at one time a member of the Communist Party?
Miss ETTINGER. I have no idea. I don't know how he could know. Not from me, certainly. Now, maybe somebody may have told him, how do I know ? You know, I can't imagine what information he had. I don't know.
Mr. WHEELER. Did he ever discuss with you communism or politics?
Miss ETTrINGER. Never.
Mr. WHEELER. Did he ever make any reference to whether he was a member of the party?
Miss ETTINGER. Never.
Mr. WHEELER. Did he ever ask you whether you ever had been a member of the party ?
Miss ETTINGER. Never.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you hire many of the writers which he represented? .
Miss ETTINGER. I must have over a period of years hired writers that he represented.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you favor him in any way in regard to hiring writers? 93012-52-pt 6---D 2082 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Miss ETTINGER. A r. Wheeler, I never favored agents. I favored writers with agents but it never came about because anybody belonged to an agency.
Mr. WiHEELER. Have you any statement to make about George Willner and your business relationship with him?
Miss ETTINGER. You mention George Willner and that makes me feel that I have to tell you a conversation that I had at Columbia with
Mr. Kahane, who is one of our vice presidents. Mr. Kahane asked me about my relationship with George Willner. 
Mr. WHEELER. When
Miss ETTINGER. During the period I had left Columbia, which was from May 1947 until the end of November 1947. This was one of the biggest shocks of my life because I had no association with George Willner. Mr. Kahane said he had gotten information from somebody who claimed that when I left Columbia it was for the purpose of going into business with George Willner, and I was going to get young writers to write scripts and I was going to sell these scripts to the studio with the writer, and presumably these writers were going to be Communists. This is, of course, ridiculous and I was amused by it at the time because I didn't realize the implications in it. But I told him the whole story, and he knew it, and I have not only the man I went into business with, but I have people in town whom I discussed relationship with this job, what I should do about it, who know about it. I was unhappy at the time I came out here, I was sensitive, I was frightened. This nas a new world to me and I came into a job in which I had to learn. I had to learn screen play writing, I had to learn how to choose writers. I came without preparation for it. Mr. Cohn called me one day and said, "Do you want to come out? Make up your mind in a day," and the next day I made up my mind. I hadn't done much script reading in New York and I certainly didn't know Hollywood writers, so I didn't know their capabilities, which meant I just had to kill myself to read every script that came in the studio and call up agents and say, "Give me scripts of these writers," so that when I was asked to name writers or suggest writers that I would be prepared. Since I am, I hate to say it, you know, high-strung, I couldn't take it in stride for a while and at the end of the second year I went to Mr. Cohn and I said, "I want to be let out of my contract." He told me he thought I was doing a foolish thing and I said, "Maybe I am, but the only way I can find out is by doing it." Now, the reason I left is because, again I am being naive, there was a man who had worked for Columbia, he was an assistant to Mr. Cohn, and he left to join Nat Goldstone, and that is Milton Pickman. Milton had, whether well placed or not, a high regard for me. He thought I knew writes, he thought that I knew scripts. I had often talked to him about a dream of buying my own stories, luring writers, writing scripts and selling them to studios at enormous prices, because an agent in town, Charley Feldman, would sell scripts for $10).0( 0 and $150.000. And I thought.' I really know how to develop scripts, why shouldn't I do it." I had visions of being very rich. So Milton's idea was that we would form a company, he would get part of the business, I would get part of the business, and lie would COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2083 get a backer whom he knew, and whose name I don't know-you will have to get it from him if necessary-to supply the money and for which we would all share in the company. We decided that since we wanted to make the big profits that 1 would hire a writer and be very fair, pay hun the salary lie would be getting at the studio, not cut him down as independents very often try to do, get them at a cheaper price because they weren't working. I said, "I will find out what this writer's last salary at the studio was and I will pay it to him so that I have no obligation to him if I sell a script at a great deal of money and lie says it is not fair." I had no obligation, he was paid his regular salary just as lie would be at a studio. It sounded good but some of my friends were very dubious about it. Milton asked me how much I thought I needed and I said, "Milton, to go along for a year to buy tories, because I don't know how much stories would cost. novels, I can work on some original ideas, but I had some things to sell the studio and I couldn't. I liked them. I felt I could produce with a writer a veiy workable script which would sell," I said, "to do that we have to count on the fact that maybe we won't sell a script for a year. We need $50,000," which was going to pay me partial salary so I could live, pay the writer his salary, ana naturally we were going to work at a very minimum. We were going to get writers for $250, A3"00a week. Unless there was somebody I was so crazy about that I would be willing to give him a piece of the picture. Since we didn't want to spend money Milton suggested that he would talk to Nat Goldstone about giving me a room that I could use. And he said to Nat, "If you let her maybe she will let you sell the scripts for her," because I didn't want to be a salesman, I didn't want to be an agent. I told Milton at the time that he must not promise this to Nat definitely, but if things worked out maybe I would let Nat sell it for me. I got an office, I got a writer who was not a Goldstone writer. I was working on a story that we were trying to sell. We finally cut it down ti) S.25,0i ) because Milton said lie couldn't get it. I said, "Milton, I will try it." Then he came to me, after giving me his own checks for the writer at $250 a week, and lie said, "I can't get the money." He even had the lawyer there, who is a lawyer and accountant. who was going to draw up an agreement. I said, "Milton, I am going to can this writer, you haven't any money and I am not going to ask hini to work for nothing."
Mr. WHuiELER. Who was the writer you had ?
Miss Erri.xonr. The writer wa-, I think, a fellow by the name of Bill Roberts and his agent was the Jaffe office.
Mr. WIIEELER. Bill Ri(b rtb is not the same individual as Stanley Roberts No, no. William Roberts.
Miss ETTriN'mn.
Mr. WHEELER. Did George Willner have anything to do with this business deal ?
Miss ETTiNc.ER. Nothing. He didn't know the writers I hired, he didn't know the story, but he was workingMr. WHEELEr. Did you have any business contact with him?
Miss ETTINGER. None. But lie knew I was working-lie was working for the Nat Goldstone Agency so he knew I was in the office there. I wouldn't even let him know the stories I was working on. 2084 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Then the whole thing was no good and I even left the office. I kept the office for a week or two and stayed there because I wanted to make phone calls, I have a place to sit and worry.
Mr. WHEELER. When was this?
Miss ETTINGER. 1947.
Mr. WHEELER. You severed your relationship with Columbia for a few weeks and then you went back ?
Miss ETTINGER. No. For about 6 months. Mr. Cohn called me up and said, "You made a mistake." I realized full well. Not being prepared for the big entrepreneur I thought I was going to be, he said, "You made a mistake," and I went back.
Mr. WHEELER. Do you know John Weber ?
Miss ETTINGER. I knew him as an agent; yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you know John Weber in New York City ?
Miss ETTrNGER. No.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you have any dealings with John Weber ?
Miss ETrINGER. He used to come up to see us occasionally. We had very infrequent business dealings, as a matter of fact, because he is a great-he was a great telephone talker and I used to complain to him because he never came up.
Mr. WHEELER. Did you know John Weber as a member of the Communist Party in New York?
Miss ETTINGER. No. 
Mr. WHEELER. Do you think John Weber knew at one time that you were a member of the Communist Party ?
Miss ETTINGER. I have no idea. . I didn't even know he came from New York.
Mr. WHEELER. Was any pressure ever exerted on you from either John Weber or George Willner in regard to hiring writers?
Miss ETTINGER. Just the normal pressure of an agent saying, "This is a good writer."
Mr. WHEELER. Have you, prior to coming here to testify, made a record of all of the writers who have been employed at Columbia Studios, either by Columbia Pictures Corp. or by independent companies releasing through Columbia?
Miss ETTINGER. The independent companies are not on that list. I can get that for you if you want it. I made it up, but since we have nothing to do with hiring them, not even suggesting them, I thought maybe that that was notMr. WHEELER. You have prepared thenMiss ETTINGER. If you want that I will get it for you.
Mr. WHEELER. That is not necessary. You have, however, gone through the records from the time you came to Columbia in 1945, up until the last date prior to giving your testimony, to check the names of all writers who have worked for Columbia Pictures Corp.?
Miss ETTrINGER. Yes.
Mr. WHEELER. Will you now explain the method by which writers are engaged by Columbia Pictures Corp.?
Miss ETTINGER. Well, there are many, you know, starting points. But we will start at a point of buying a story. We buy a story and Mr. Cohn 0. K.'s it and we finally make the deal and it is assigned to a producer. Then the producer sits down with me, or with my assistant-my associate.
Mr. WHEELER. What is his name ? COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2035 
Miss ETTINGER. Arthur Kramer. We discuss various writers, we get their cards out, what they have done, what kind of stories, how many screen plays they have done, whether they were good pictures. And on the basis of that we pick out a list of the most suitable for that particular kind of a story. Then the producer says, "Well, let's get him and him and him in." He talks to all these people.
Mr. WHIIEELER. Who calls them in
Miss ETTINGER. Either I do or Arthur, or sometimes I have my secretary make the date. It is very informal.
Mr. WHEELER. Who talks to them when they come in, you or your assistant or the producer?
Miss ETTINGER. They go to the producer. Sometimes they come down and tell me they have talked to the producer. Most of the times the producer calls me and says it was unsatisfactory, or satisfactory, or, "I like this guy and let's talk to Mr. Cohn." Then we get an 0. K. If it is a project that Mr. Cohn isn't handling it is for Mr. Kahane. After they 0. K. it they start to work for the producer and I practically never .ee them again.
Mr. WHEELER. Who makes the deal after they are 0. K.'d by Mr. Cohn, Mr. Kahane, or the producer?
Miss ETTINGER. I make the deal with the agent.
Mr. WHEELER. That has to do with terms and conditions and money and so forth?
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. Usually we know writers' salaries. It's a week-to-week deal. 
Mr. WHEELER. How many names are qn this list that you have compiled ? 
Miss ETTINGER. There are over 900 names on that list.
Mr. WHEELER. With your permission I would like to review the list and just give the number of individuals who from our recollection have been identified as members of the Communist Party. Miss Ettinger, I have reviewed the list of names which you have compiled, on which you state there are over 900 individuals, and I have recognized 38 as having been identified as having been members of the Communist Party.
Miss ErrINGER. Maybe about 925 or 930.
Mr. WHEELER. I want to ask you a question again. Was any pres- sure ever exerted on you by anyone to hire any writer by reason of Communist Party affiliations? 
Miss ETTINGER. Mr. Wheeler, I can truthfully say never, or I was so dumb that I didn't recognize the signs. 
Mr. WHEELER. Do you recall anybody else now whom you remem- ber as a member of the Communist Party? 
Miss ETTINGER. I just can't.
Mr. WHEELER. Don't you think it is a bit unusual for a person to be a member of the Communist Party for a period of 4 years and only remember about four or five individuals?
Miss ETTINGER. It may be, but it is a long time ago. This is not something I want to remember; it is something that I wanted to forget. And people, maybe they weren't there long enough, maybe I didn't know more than first names, maybe they moved around and others came in and came out, so I never got to know anybody thoroughly, These people, even though I joined, were never people that I asso- 2086 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY ciated with in any social way. I went to a meeting and I went away from a meeting and I never saw them.
Mr. WHEELER. Will you give this question further thought, and in case you remember any you will notify me.
Miss ETTINGER. I will be glad to.
Mr. WHEELER. Miss Ettinger, why did you get out of the Communist Party ? Will you explain the reasons why you disaffiliated yourself with the Communist Party?
Miss ETTINGER. Because it took me all that time to make up my mind to just forget about it, because I disagreed on every point, I wasn't interested in having a separate-I am trying to remember some of the things that we studied that minority groups were going to have a choice of their own country in America, they were going to have a Negro America or Chinese America, or something else. I wasn't interested in this nonsense. I was interested in people living together. The whole thing-this was only the beginning, the arguments, the nonsensical statements about world affairs. I disagreed with everything they thought was great for America and I disagreed with what was being done over the world. I was disgusted with the debating society because statements would appear in the magazines and newspapers and we would discuss them and I would disagree with them. I would be called names, I was a crooked thinker, I didn't think straight, I was not bright enough, I didn't understand. And this happened from the very beginning. Finally when it came to really important world events, the happenings in Spain, the Hitler-Stalin pact, I knew that I could no longer sit there and be unhappy, I had to do something about it and I went away and never came back.
Mr. WHEELER. In other words, what made you unhappy about this Hitler-Stalin pact was the party which professed to be anti-Hitler and for minority groups made a treaty with Hitler ?
Miss ETTINGER. Made a treaty with people they were supposed to be against. So I couldn't believe anything.
Mr. WHEELER. Did the explanation that the treaty was one of expediency only offend your sense of decency, if you can remember?
Miss ETTINGER. Even more than that. I believed that everything they said was a lie anyway, because it was all expediency, everything that happened and switched around from day to day was because it. was right that day. So I never knew when they were right and I was right. And I decided this was not for me.
Mr. WHEELER. After you left the Communist Party were you ever asked by anyone to rejoin, either in New York or in Hollywood?
Miss ETTINGER. You mean after I was formally out ?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes.
Miss ETTINGER. Never. 
Mr. WHEELER. I would like to refer back to the list of names you have compiled regarding the writers that were hired by Columbia Studios and ask you several questions regarding some of the individuals. I notice here that on October 24, 1946, Ben Barzman was hired. Do you recall the circumstances under which he was hired?
Miss ETTINGER. No. I called the producer for whom he worked at the time because it is 5 years ago. We tried to recall why this man COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2087 was hired. It may have been we looked at his record and thought maybe he could write that kind of a story. Neither of us could remember. I tried. I called him on this; I called the producer for whom these writers worked to try to refresh my memory.
Mr. WVIEELER. Who was the producer? 
Miss ETTINGER. Jules Schermer. He is no longer at Columbia; he is at Fox.
Mr. WHIIEELER. I notice Leonardo Bercovici was hired on March 6, 1950. Do you recall that ?
Miss ETTINGER. Yes. A deal was made on Leonardo Bercovici between Sylvan Simon and, I think, Ray Starck.
Mr. WIIEELER. Did you have anything to do with that?
Miss ETTINGER. No. Ray talked to Sylvan.
Mr. WHIIEELER. I notice Martin Berkeley was hired in May 1945. Do you recall the circumstances?
Miss ETTINGER. I had just arrived in Hollywood.
Mr. WHEELER. You had nothing to do with that? 
Miss ErTTINGER. I had nothing to do with that.
Mr. WIIEELER. This list also reflects that Alvah Bessie was hired in December 1946. Do you recall the circumstances under which he was hired?
Miss ETTINGER. I discussed that with the producer Jules Schermer. We couldn't remember why he was hired, whether it was because he was fit for that job or what. I have a recollection that he may have written a book on Spain and we thought that that would fit in because this was a story about Spain. I looked up this story but I didn't look up his card. I got so mixed up that I forgot.
Mr. WHEELER. What is your attitude regarding qualified writers who presently cooperate with the committee?
Miss ETTINGER. I can answer that only by saying that writers hired by Columbia, since I suggest them, are hired purely on the basis of their talent.
Mr. WHEELER. No reflectionMiss ETTINGER. Absolutely none.
Mr. WIIEELER. No reflection will be cast upon them because of their cooperation ?
Miss ETTINGER. Absolutely none. We are desperate for good writers and that is the way we hire them.
Mr. WHEELER. Lester Fuller was hired on October 11, 1949, by Columbia. Do you recall the circumstances under which he was hired ?
Miss ETTINGER. 1949 ? I looked at that, I saw it wrong. I thought it was 1950.
Mr. WHEELER. A Day in the Life of a Detective. Do you remember about that? 
Miss ETTINGER. Yes; I do remember. We had a man at the studio, who is no longer there, Erwin Gelsey. Erwin was a man who had worked on the script after the writers worked on it. He worked very close with Jerry Bresler who had A Day in the Life of a Detective. It was just a title, and no story. Jerry had gone through severe headaches because we had a writer on it for quite a while and nothing had happened or come through to satisfy Mr. Cohn. I remember this because I was upset about it, I felt it my function, and Erwin had 2088 COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY done it. Erwin met Lester Fuller and said that he thought he was very bright, and lie talked to Jerry about the job. Jerry asked me to call his agent, who was George Willner, and have him come in. He talked to him, he liked him. He said, "I will get an 0. K.," which he did, and Lester Fuller came to work. I again say, I don't know if you want it, that I hadn't talked to Lester in 10 or 11 years, I had no idea what his party affiliations were. 1 occasionally passed him in Hollywood as I pass 85 percent of the people and said, "Hello." I had not discussed anything with him, lie was not my friend. I couldn't go to the producer and say, "This man is a Communist." I didn't know. Just as I knew I no longer was.
Mr. WHEELER. I don't believe it is necessary to go over the entire list of 38 names with you; however, I would like to ask you again if any pressure was ever exerted upon you to hire anybody because of his past or present party affiliations?
Miss ET'TINGER. Mr. Wheeler, I don't think so. I don't think so. May I add something to that?
Mr. WIIEELER. Yes.
Miss ETTINGER. The agents in this town, and they sometimes make fun of it, know how tough I am on hiring writers, because how sure I make that he is right for the job and how sure I make that he has talent before he is hired.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you ever been a member of the Arts, Sciences and Professional Council?
Miss ETTINGER. No.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you ever been affiliated with the People's Educational Center?
Miss ETTINGER. What is that? I don't know.
Mr. WIIEELER. Did you belong to the Motion Picture Democratic Committee?
Miss ETTINGER. I don't think so. Is that an organization out here?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes.
Miss ETTINGER. No.
Mr. WHEELER. Are you a member of the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council?
Miss ETTINGER. Is that an organization out here?
Mr. WHEELER. Yes.
Miss ETTINGER. No.
Mr. WHEELER. Have you contributed any money to any of these organizations I have mentioned? 
Miss ETTINGER. No. 
Mr. WHIIEELER. Would you like to add something in addition to what you have testified to, that you have not been questioned about?
Miss ETTINGER. In concluding this testimony I would like to get into the record, in synopsis form, the reasons that I became a member of the Communist Party and why I left. I never thought I was joining any party that was trying to overthrow the Government, or that was anti-American in any way. I thought I was joining a party which would explain the troubles of the world and be better able to understand it, and I found I was joining a debating society where people told me what to think and when I refused to think that way I was wrong and I was maligned and it COMMUNISM IN HOLLYWOOD MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 2089 took me time to get the courage to put my hat on and go home, but finally I realized I had to and that's what I did. I haven't changed since then. I feel that it is just something I don't believe in, could never subscribe to, wouldn't give a nickel if that is what they needed to keep going.
Mr. WIIEELER. From what you read of the Communist Party in the last 5 or 6 years, what is your opinion on it?
Miss ETTINOER. The last 5 years, with the war in Korea, seems to have made this not a debating society but an active adjunct of the Soviet Union in foreign policy. (Whereupon the statement of Eve Ettinger was completed.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 6 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMIrTTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Los Angeles, Calif. EXECUTIVE SESSION A special subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to call at 9: 50 a. m., in conference room C, at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. Donald L. Jackson, presiding. Committee member present: Representative Donald L. Jackson. Staff members present: Thomas W. Beale, assistant counsel (appearance noted in transcript) and William A. Wheeler, investigator.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Wheeler, will you call the witness?
Mr. WHEELER. Robert Shayne.
Mr. JACKSON. Will you stand and be sworn, please? Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. SHAYNE. I do. TESTIMONY OF ROBERT SHAYNE (ROBERT SHAEN DAWE)
