Mr. TUTTLE. Frank Wright Tuttle. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born?
Mr. TUTTLE. I was born in.New York City, August 6, 1892.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present place of residence ?
Mr. TUTTLE. My present place of residence is in Vienna, Austria, where I directed a picture last summer and have been working on a story there since. Do you want the address ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No. I think you have already indicated your profession by your answer. That is, you are a director in the movingpicture industry ?
Mr. TUTTrr. That is correct, sir. 81595-51-pt. 3--7 . 625 626 INDUSTRY lMr. TAVENNER. Will you state briefly for the committee what your educational training has been.
Mr. TUYTLE. Yes, sir. I went to public school in New York City. Then I went to a preparatory school, the Hill School, in Pottstown, Pa.; then I went to Yale University, where I was graduated in 1915, taking an A.B. degree.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your professional experience?
Mr. TTrrrE. When I was graduated I was first an assistant editor of a magazine which is now defunct, called Vanity Fair. After that I was a press agent for several years, mainly for the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. During World War I, I was with the Committee on Public Information; then I returned to Philharmonic as its press agent. I arranged at that time to be able to do all my work in half a day, as I was interested in playwrighting and moving pictures; but about this time I was a member of a club, a lunch club, at which I met Mr. Walter Wanger. I suggested to him that, as I had half my time free, I would like to submit to him the possibility of his giving me assignments at Paramount, with which he was connected, to read material that was under consideration by them and to submit my ideas of moving-picture treatments. He thought this was a good idea. When I met him a few days later, a director had come from the coast looking for a writer with no experience whom he could train. I met this man at a luncheon, showed him some things I had done, and was signed on a trial basis as a writer. I worked several months in the trial period, when he was shooting a picture at the old Biograph Studio on Seventieth Street. In the meantime, I had been reading all the stories I could, and I told him I was beginning to write a screen play for his new picture. He said "Go ahead." At that time the option was coming up, and Mr. Wanger asked him how I was. He had not at that time read a word I had written. He said I was fine. He took up my option for a year. They actually shot the screen play which I wrote with very few changes. I then worked at the Paramount Studio in the East as a writer, and the studio eventually closed down. At this time a cameraman came to me and asked if I had a story of my own
Mr. TAVENXER. Can you identify the year in which that occurred, approximately ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I should say approximately 1919 or 1920. This cameraman came to me and we made an independent picture, which I wrote, directed, and cut. We made a series of little pictures in which the star was Mr. Glenn Hunter, who later became famous as the original Merton of the Movies. Glenn left us after a few years. We did some pictures for the Yale Historical Society; then our company, the Film Guild, folded, and I went back to Paramount as a writer, but with the understanding they would only use me as a writer for a short time, then I was to be permitted to direct my first picture for them. I had already directed the few pictures in which Glenn Hunter was the star. I came to Paramount as a director in the early twenties. I worked at their eastern studio several years, until it closed down. I went  627 to the coast to make one picture in 1925, a sound picture with Eddie Cantor-Kid Boots. I returned to the East; the studio was closed down, and we were all sent to the west coast. I worked there, mostly for Paramount, until late 1947, when I came to New York to work on a play. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And then from 1947 I believe you went abroad and at the time that you learned of this hearing you were in Vienna
Mr. TuTrrL. That is correct. I was in New York for a while working on some stories, and then I went abroad in 1949, in November. I went to France and then to Vienna, where I directed a picture last August, starting last August for an independent American concern.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many pictures do you judge you have di- rected ?
Mr. TrriE. I imagine I have directed pretty nearly 70 pictures, feature pictures.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you name some of the feature pictures which you directed ?
Mr. TurnE. Yes. Probably best known is This Gun for Hire, which was Alan Ladd's first starring picture. The last picture I directed in Hollywood was called Swell Guy, which I did for Marc Hellinger. I did a picture called Suspense for King Bros. I did a picture for Fox-Don Juan Quilligan. Then, going back, I did several of the Bing Crosby musicals and Roman Scandals for Samuel Goldwyn, starring Eddie Cantor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Tuttle, you are aware of the fact that Mr. Richard Collins appeared before this committee and mentioned your name as one of those who were members of the Communist Party in Hollywood ?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to that time the investigators of the committee had a subpena for service upon you to appear here as a witness, but at the time of the issuance of that subpena it was not known that you were in Austria. When your participation as a member of the Com- munist Party in Hollywood was made public through the testimony of
Mr. Collins, or very shortly thereafter, the chairman of this committee received a telegram from you in which you stated that you had seen from the press that your name had been made public through the testimony here, and that you wished to testify.
Mr. TuIrLE. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. And then you received word from the committee fixing a date for your appearance ?
Mr. TurT~ . That is risht.
Mr. TAVENNER. And it is pursuant to that arrangement, initiated by you, that you are here today?
Mr. TUrrLr. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I assume from those circumstances that you are willing to tell the committee frankly and fully all that you know about Communist Party activities in Hollywood, including your own participation ? 
Mr. Tu rrE. I am, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us begin by your stating in your own way how you became a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TTrrLE. Yes. In the middle thirties-I am not sure of the exact dates here, but sometime in the middle thirties-the Anti-Nazi 628 INDUSTRY League was formed in Hollywood, and another organization called the Motion Picture Artists' Committee. At this time it is difficult, I imagine, for anyone to remember this. There was not a great deal of interest in the rise to power of Hitler, and these committees were attempting to interest the people in the fight against,the growing power of nazism and Hitler. I joined these committees. In the course of my participation in their activities, I met a fellow named Stanley Lawrence. Stanley Lawrence told me that he was a Communist, and he pointed out to me that the Communists had been instrumental-had been behind the formation of these committees. The great majority of the people in them were, of course, not Communists, and I think at this time there were very few Communists in Hollywood. As I worked with these committees, he more and more impressed me with the idea that the Communists were responsible for this work, which I considered good. He gave me literature to read, and I was asked to join the party. I didn't join it, I think, for about 2 years. I finally did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there an intermediate step between the time that he first approached you on the subject and your joining, in which you attended group-study courses?
Mr. TUTLE. Yes; there was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us about that.
Mr. TTTrLE. Well, Mr. Lawrence met with a few people at that time at my house, and we were given Marxist literature to read. I can't remember now definitely how many of these study-course meetings there were; not very many, I should say.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then after a period of time you united with the party ?
Mr. TurTLE. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell us more in detail the circumstances under which you first became an actual member of the party; that is, who solicited you at the time you joined ?
Mr. TTrrTLE. Yes. Mr. Herbert Biberman did.
Mr. TAVENNER. And that, you say, was about the year 1937?
Mr. TTrrLE. That is my memory of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in the Communist Party ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I left the Communist Party when I left New York in 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period that you were a member, were you assigned to any one particular group, or were you associated with various groups within the Communist Party ?
Mr. TUTrLE. I was assigned to no particular group beyond the fact that-no; that is not correct. I misunderstood the question. Yes; I belonged during that time to perhaps five groups, I imagine.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did these groups have names ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I believe they did toward the latter part of my mem- bership. At first, I think there were no names for the groups at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before we discuss each of those groups, I would like to ask you about one particular group, and that was the group alleged to be within the Screen Directors' Guild.
Mr. TUrrLE. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You were a screen director by profession?  INDUSTRY 629 
Mr. TUTTLE. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there a cell or group of the Communist Party within this Screen Directors' Guild ?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes: there was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How many composed that group ?
Mr. TTTrrE. Perhaps I should state it this way: There was a group in which all the directors were participants, and there were other people in the group. A great many of these other people were small people in the sense that they had clerical jobs, and in many cases I can't even remember their names, because they were known as Harry or Ed or whoever they were. Some of them were wives, and so forth. But, if you would like me to, I shall be glad to tell you who the directors were.
Mr. TAVENNER. Before doing that, apparently there was no sepa- rate cell confined in membership to directors ?
Mr. TUTTLE. No; because there were too few.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean too few directors ?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many directors were there ?
Mr. TUTE. Including me, there were seven.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is, seven who were members of the Com- munist Party?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. If you will name for the committee who they were.
Mr. TUTTrL. Yes. I have already named Mr. Biberman, who was a director; Mr. Dmytryk; myself; Mr. Michael Gordon; Mr. Jules Dassin. These two gentlemen, I think, left the party. I am not sure when. Mr. Bernard Vorhaus.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will ou spell the last name ? 
Mr. TrrLE. Yes. V-o-r-h-a-u-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. That makes six, I believe.
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes. I believe I have the list here. [Referring to list.] And Mr. John Berry.
Mr. WALTER. What was the last name ?
Mr. TUTTrE. John B-e-r-r-y.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to inquire a little about how this group functioned in connection with the Screen Directors' Guild. 
Mr. TTyrTE. I would say this: The work of the directors in the Screen Directors' Guild was very ineffectual as far as any real Communist angle was concerned. About all they were able to do was to propagandize for liberal candidates and the candidature of our own people during guild elections to the board of directors. I think only
Mr. Biberman, Mr. Dmtryk, and I were ever elected to the board. As you can see, there were so few directors who were Communists that the Communists were content to have elected as many liberals as possible. 
Mr. VELDE. About how many directors are there in Hollywood ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I believe the total guild membership is something like 500 people. I am not absolutely sure whether that includes the assistant directors, who are junior members of the guild, or not. That is approximately the number. 630 
Mr. TAVEXxNER. And I would like you to compare this membership with the membership in the Screen Writers' Guild, if you recall.
Mr. TrUn,. I am sorry, sir, I don't recall the number of writers. I inag.ine it is many more.
Mr. T\AVENNER. l o you recall special meetings which were held by the Communist members of the Screen Directors' Guild on this subject of propagan dizing for the election of your own members or certain liberals to the board of directors of your organization ?
Mr. TTrrLE. Yes. The procedure was something like this: The way people are elected to the board in the guild, there is first a nomipation time at which the people who receive the most votes are then voted on again as to the exact members. It is a rotation system. The seven directors met and discussed the possible people who could be advanced, and we talked to other guild members and suggested they would make good members of the board.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any time when this small group of Communists within your particular guild were given directions from above, from some higher level in the Communist Party ?
Mr. TUTrLE. No, sir, there never was; nothing that I ever heard of.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the head of the Communist Party in Hollywood at that time, as far as you know ?
Mr. TUrrLE. As far as I know, Mr. John Howard Lawson was. In this connection, perhaps you would like me to tell you the people who in my opinion were functionaries of the Communist Party in Hollywood. Would you like me to do that ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. TyrrLE. Mr. Lawson. Madeline RuthvenMr. TAVENER. In naming each of those persons, will you state just what you know about the particular functions that they carried out?
Mr. TUrrLE. Yes. Mr. Lawson was the general head of the party, to whom everybody went for advice when there was any problem of any kind. He was considered to be the last word in discussing problems of all sorts. I heard it said that he had been a functionary in New York before he came to Hollywood, and was part of what I believe they called the central committee of the Communist Party in New York before he came to Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall when he first came to Hollywood?
Mr. TUTTLE. No, I don't. I heard of his being there in the thirties, just about the time I joined.
Mr. TAVENNER. .You know nothing about the exact nature of his employment at the time that he first came to Hollywood ?
Mr. TUrrLE. No. He was a writer. He had written plays, and he was hired as a writer in Hollywood and wrote there for several pictures that I remember. (Representative James B. Frazier, Jr., entered hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. Go ahead.
Mr. TUrrTE. Madeline Ruthven had been a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. TuTrLE. R-u-t-h-v-e-n. She was a sort of organizer in charge, sort of a second lieutenant, you might say, to Mr. Lawson, in a sense. She stopped writing, as I remember, and was also someone whom Communists consulted in the case of problems. Then there was Mr. V. J. Jerome, who was a New' York Communist, a high Communist, I believe, in the party there, who came to Holly- COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 631 wood sometime in the thirties. I remember seeing him two or three times at Communist-front organizations, where he was more or less in the background, and at parties, et cetera, and other Communists told me he had come from New York and he was now pretty much in charge of things from the New York angle as far as the Communists in Hollywood were concerned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall the front organizations at which you saw Jerome present ?
Mr. TTrrLE. I am afraid I wouldn't be very accurate about this, but I think he was there during the Anti-Nazi League times and the Motion Picture Artists' Committee that I have spoken of. Those are the two organizations that I seem to remember his having been at.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any occasion to confer with Mr. Jerome yourself?
Mr. TrTTLE. No, I think I never did. I was introduced to him and I think I spoke to him once or twice.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you continue? 
Mr. TuTTrnE. I also heard mentioned, as a downtown Los Angeles Communist, a man named John Stapp and a man named Nemmy Sparks. These two men I never met, but I heard their names mentioned frequently.
Mr. VELDE. How do you spell their names ?
Mr. uTTrLE. Stapp is S-t-a-p-p. Sparks is S-p-a-r-k-s. His first name, which I think must have been a nickname, was N-e-m-m-y. Then there was a man named Carl Winter, who was in Los Angeles for a while and I think also belonged to the big Communist hierarchy. He was also, I think, taking someone's place, and was there for a while. It may have been when someone else was away or something of that sort, but I remember his being there. And the writer, Waldo Salt, who was a high functionary during the later years when I was a member of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Charles Glenn?
Mr. TUTTLE. I met him also at several parties. He was, when I knew him, conducting the subscription drives for the People's World. Oh, yes; I am sorry; I have forgotten someone. His wife, Elizabeth Leech Glenn, was, I think, a functionary in the party in Hollywood. I think she had to do with membership drives and things of that sort, as I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, are there any other Communist Party functionaries whom you can recall?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes. I find another name I recognize, a woman named Eva Shafron, who is now dead, I believe. 
Mr. VELDE. Will you spell that name, too, please ? 
Mr. TUTTLE. Surely. E-v-a S-h-a-f-r-o-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did any of these Communist Party functionaries have anything to do with the collection of dues or assessments from you?
Mr. TuTrI . Not directly. I never held any position in the party. I never had anything to do with dues collecting. But, as I said, I think Mrs. Glenn, Elizabeth Leech Glenn, had something to do with this, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you recall making payment of dues to her, or assessmPntfq to her2 632 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TuTTLE. No; I don't. The way that worked out in the groupwas that you paid your dues at the beginning of the meeting, and usually the treasurer was a person of no great importance, one of the Joes, Bills, Harrys, or Marys that I spoke of, and you paid your dues before the meeting started.
Mr. TAVENNER. By referring to those names, you mean people you knew by their first names only.
Mr. TUTTLE. By their first names, and I can't remember who they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. What dues or assessments did you pay ?
Mr. TUrTLE. I think I read in Vienna Mr. Dmytryk's description of this, which I thought was excellent. I am a pretty bad businessman, but I will do the best I can. I think Mr. Collins said something about it too. I will do the best I can. Under ordinary circumstances, and during the early part of my membership in the party, the dues were very nominal, a certain amount if you were working, and a very tiny amount if you were not working. Later they evolved a system whereby the high-salaried people paid something like 4 percent of their income while they were working, eliminating, of course, the 10-percent fees for agents. In my case, I was working under contract only for about, I should say, a year at a time when this system was in force, and I was on a 42-week contract. After that, while this system was still in force, I was an independent director, that is, I was free lancing, and my salary would have had tremendous variety, because the contract called for a 10-week minimum, and I hardly ever ran more than 12 weeks at the most. I believe the percentage was something like 4 percent. I should say in my case I paid something like 9 or 10 thousand dollars to the party during this time.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period of time when you were paying the greatest percentage to the Communist Party, what was your weekly salary ?
Mr. TurTLE. My weekly salary was $3,000 a week, usually, as I say, with a 10-week minimum.
Mr. TAVENNER. How were those payments made and what disposition was made of the money, as far as you know ?
Mr. TTrrLE. In my case I simply gave the money in cash and made no account of it at all and took the loss so far as my income tax was concerned. My understanding was that a certain percentage of this money went to the party in Los Angeles, and a certain amount went to New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know anything about the percentage of distribution between the local and the national organization?
Mr. TunTTE. No, I couldn't tell you that.
Mr. TAVENNER. How did you make your remittances, and to whom? You said you paid in cash, but to whom ?
Mr. TUTrLE. To whomever was the treasurer of the group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall who the treasurer was at any particular time?
Mr. TTrTLE. No sir; I am very sorry, but I don't. I just'don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Returning now to the Communist Party meetings held of the group of seven in your guild, who usually acted as chairman of your meetings ?  INDUSTRY 633 
Mr. TurLE. My memory is that a chairman was elected at each meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that mean there vere different chairmen?
Mr. TUTrLE. That is right, a different chairman every time.
Mr. TAVENNER. There were occasions, then, when you were chair- man of the meeting?
Mr. TorrLE. I imagine I must have been; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any other schemes or devices used for the raising of money for the benefit of the Communist Party, beyond the matter of payment of dues and assessments ?
Mr. TUTTLE. Not that I am aware of. The money-raising cam- paigns were usually for the separate Communist-front organizations, for their publications, for things like the People's World, things of that sort, and certain front organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Suppose while we are on the subject of money that we discuss this matter more fully.
Mr. TurrmE. How this was done?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. TUTTLE. Parties would be given, usually with some sort of entertainment of a very mild nature, and speeches would be made, and these attempts to raise money were made among all kinds of left-wing and liberal people. Parties would be given and refreshments would be served, and perhaps a few people would entertain, and the hat would be passed. 
Mr. TAVENNER. New Masses is a publication which is recognized as being a Communist Party organ.
Mr. TUTTLE. Right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any benefits given for that publica- tion ?
Mr. TUTrLE. Yes. I gave one.
Mr. TAVENNER. And were there others ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I imagine there were. I naturally remember this one more specifically because it was given at my house. We sent out invitations, and my memory is that someone in the party asked me to do this.
Mr. VELDE. Can you fix the date of the party ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I can't definitely. Have you a date on it ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, I have. 
Mr. TuwrLE. It was in 1945, I guess.
Mr. TAVENNER. There was an occasion on June 9, 1945, according to our information, at which William Gropper, cartoonist for New Masses, was a.special guest of honor.
Mr. TUTTLE. That was the one at my house.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is the one you are speaking of ?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes, sir
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. TrrTLE. My memory is that, as usual, the people who were preparing for the party sent out invitations after combing the list of all the liberals and fellow travelers and members of the front organiza- tions; and my memory is that this particular party was quite successful. I am not absolutely sure of the amount of money raised, but I think it was quite successful. I know that New Masses was always in trouble financially, and was never terribly successful on its own merits. 634 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you issued invitations?
Mr. TrrLE. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Written invitations? 
Mr. TTTTLE. Written or printed. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the invitations express the purpose of the meeting?
Mr. TuwTLE. I think they did.
Mr. TAVENNER. That it was for the New Masses ?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes. And I think they said Mr. Gropper would be there.
Mr. TAVENNER. If the invitations specified it was a benefit for the New MassesMr. TTTrrL. How would I explain the position of non-Communists who would come ? Is that it?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; that is exactly it.
Mr. TUTTLE. I am getting bright. I think that is fairly easy to explain. During all this period there were people who were not Communists who were liberals, and who read magazines like the Nation and the New Republic, and they knew that a magazine existed like the New Masses. I think they felt, "Well, we should know what they are doing, too, and read it occasionally," or they might have felt, "We should keep up with this in order to answer the arguments," and for whatever reason.
Mr. TAVENNER. But from the standpoint of people interested in New Masses ?
Mr. TyrrLE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And people interested in the Communist Party ?
Mr. UTTLE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were willing to accept donations from people not members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TrTTLE. The Communist Party was always interested in getting money from anyone.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated that some member of the Communist Party talked to you about this project ?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is my guess.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us more information about that, as to how the matter originated?
Mr. TUTTLE. I can give you in a general way, but I can't remember specifically who was the person who did this. I imagine perhaps it was brought up at one of the meetings, and someone said, "Who has a house ?" That is usually the way it was discussed.
Mr. TAVENNER. These benefits would be discussed in a Communist. Party meeting ?
Mr. TrTTLE. Yes; that is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to the occasion? 
Mr. TTrrLE. Yes; and I imagine I was the sucker that time. Pleasedon't misunderstand me. At that time I was very willing to be a sucker.
Mr. VELDE. Why was the New Masses always having trouble finan- cially ? Why couldn't they make their magazine pay ?
Mr. TUTTrr. I can't answer that, sir. I imagine because the sub- scriptions and readers were not large enough to support it. I once was assistant editor of a magazine, and I think the magazine business is  INDUSTRY 635 one of the most difficult in the world. It depends largely on advertisements, and it is pretty difficult to get advertisements for a Communist paper, as you can imagine. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is informed there was another benefit of a different type held for New Masses in July 1944, at which various articles were auctioned off as a method of raising money. Does that refresh your recollection of that occasion ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I seem to remember such a party, but I am vague on it because I am not sure whether Mr. Gropper's original drawings were auctioned off at that one or the one at my house. I remember I went to both parties. I even went to the one I gave.
Mr. TAVENNER. They were both the same type of benefit?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there other benefits that you recall where the money went either directly to the Communist Party or to Communistfront organizations or publications?
Mr. TRTTLE. Yes. There were always parties for People's World, for front organizations, and so forth. It would be difficult for me to be too specific about it without some help, because there were so many, and I don't remember the order in which they came.
Mr. VELDE. While counsel is conferring, Mr. Tuttle, let me ask you this question: On occasions when there were benefits for New Masses did you meet Richard Bransten ? I believe he was a writer on the staff of New Masses during the early forties. Did you meet him?
Mr. TUTTLE. I may have, but I don't remember the name at all. There were a great many people at both these parties.
Mr. VELDE. Or Bruce Minton. Did you meet Bruce Minton?
Mr. TUTTLE. I think I did; yes. I seem to remember that name. I think he was a writer on New Masses, wasn't he ?
Mr. VELDE. Yes.
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes; I met him. 
Mr. VELDE. Did you know him as a member of the Communist Party? 
Mr. TUTTLE. No; I didn't; not specifically. I assumed he was.
Mr. VELDE. Wasn't it generally true that those who wrote regu- larly for New Masses were members of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. TUTTLE. I would hesitate to say that, sir, because I know several people who were not Communists who did write for them. I think it is a little difficult to answer that question specifically.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have asked you about a particular group of Com- munists, those who were associated with you in your own guild, the Screen Directors' Guild. I would like now to ask you to go back to the time that you became a member of the Communist Party and define for us more in detail, if you can, the different groups to which you were assigned, and to give us the names of all persons who were members of those groups, and by groups, if you can identify them.
Mr. TUTTLE. For anyone who was a member as long as I was, for nearly 10 years, it is difficult to be chronological or orderly about the exact group. I can name people who were associated with me in the various groups. It is Drettv hard to separate them at this time.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like for you to do that, and it is relatively unimportant as to the chronology, but I would want you to be very. certain and definite about the individual's participation and connections with the Communist Party. 636 
Mr. TurrT INDUSTRY . Right. 
Mr. Alvah Bessie was in one of the groups I was in.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Alvah Bessie? 
Mr. T'rTL. Yes. He was at one time a writer on New Masses, and came to Hollywood and was a writer there. of the Spanish War. He was also a veteran 
Mr. VELDE. Belonged to the Abraham Lincoln Brigade?
Mr. TuTTrE. I believe so. 
Mrs. Meta Reis; Mr. Collins. "Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Meta Reis is the same person as Mrs. Meta Reis Rosenberg
Mr. TurrrL. I believe so. I knew her as Mrs. Meta Reis.
Mr. Richard Collins.
Mr. Robert Lees.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. TuarrE. L-e-e-s.
Mr. Fred Rinaldo.
Mr. Ring Lardner.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is Ring Lardner, Jr.?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is right. 
Mr. John Bright.
Mr. Robert Tasker, who is now dead. I think he died in M4xico.,
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. John Bright, what was his occupation?
Mr. TUTTLE. He was a writer. He and Mr. Tasker were both writers at one time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. TUTTLE. Mr. Edward Biberman and his wife, Sonia Dahl Biberman.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell Dahl? TUrtLE. D-a-h-1. J. Edward Bromberg and his wife. TAVENNER. What was Mr. Bromberg's occupation? 
Mr. TUTTLE. He was an actor. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall his wife's name?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes. Her name was Goldie Bromberg. I don't know if that is her real name or a nickname.
Mr. Hugo Butler.
Mr. Lester Cole.
Mr. VELDE. May I suggest that you give the occupations of each of these ?
Mr. TurrLE. Thank you, sir. Mr. Cole was a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what was Mr.' Butler's occupation?
Mr. TUTTLE. Mr. Butler was a writer. 
Mr. Huebsch, H-u-e-b-s-c-h, a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall his first name ?
Mr. TwrrLE. I think it was Eddie. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say he was a writer? 
Mr. TTTrrE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you are not certain of his first name, can you identify the person to whom you are referring-by any other information so that there will be no question about a confusion of names ?
Mr. TUTILE. I can't identify him other than the fact his name was Huebsch. He was in one of the groups I was in and he was a writer.  637 That is all I know. I don't know that there was any other writer by that name.
Mr. TAVENNER. The reason I am asking that, we discovered even in connection with your own name that there is another person by your own name, and we were about to subpena the wrong person.
Mr. TUTrLE. Yes. He is an art director, I think. Dorothy Tree Uris and Mickey Uris. The former is an actress and the latter is a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the last name?
Mr. TUTTLE. U-r-i-s. 
Mr. Maurice Clark and Paul Trivers, both writers. Clark is spelled without an "e" and Trivers is spelled T-r-i-v-e-r-s. Those are the only names I can give.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been giving study to that question since you realized you would appear before this committee?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes I have, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What impelled you to be willing to give to this committee the benefit of your knowledge regarding these individuals or any individuals who were associated with you in the Communist Party?
Mr. TUTTLE. I believe that there is a traditional dislike among Americans for informers, and I am an informer, and I have thought about this constantly. I believe all decent people who share this dislike for informers, if they think about this carefully, will agree with me that at this particular moment it is absolutely vital. In a case like this, with ruthless aggression abroad in the world, the aggressors, I believe, are as ruthless with their own people as they are with those they consider their enemies; and I feel that today it is absolutely necessary for Americans to be equally ruthless.
Mr. WALTER. If you weren't of that opinion when you went to Vienna, I am sure you would be now ?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. The time spent by you abroad probably has in- creased and strengthened your views on that subject
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes. Since I went to New York I had a very healthy experience of meeting a lot of very liberal Americans who were as anti-Communist as they were anti-Nazi and anti-Fascist, and I have talked to a great number of them. Of course it strengthened my growing resolution.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, these persons whom you have identified as members of the Communist Party, are they persons connected one way or another with groups with which you have been connected?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes, they are. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you are basing your statement here upon knowledge ?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your own personal knowledge?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is right, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of your experience within the Com- munist Party, did you find other persons to be members who were not members of your particular groups, or of the groups to which you were assigned ? (Representative Harold H. Velde left hearing room.)  INDUSTRY 
Mr. TrTrLE. Yes; there are a few of whom I have heard it said they were Communists by other Communists a sufficient number of times for me to agree that they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. I probably should not ask you to state the names of those that you have learned were members of the Communist Party by that method, but if there are any other persons whom you can identify by any other method, such as their attending Communist Party meetings with you or their discussing with you Communist Party matters, or their engaging in Communist Party activities, upon which you could base your judgment that they were members of the Communist Party, as distinguished from pure hearsay, I would like for you to state their names.
Mr. TUTTLE. I think there are a few. I believe Mr. Albert Maltz;
Mr. Trumbo; and a woman named Nora Hellgren.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name ?
Mr. TUrTLE. Yes. I think it is H-e-l-l-g-r-e-n. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What occupation does she have, or did she have? 
Mr. TUTTLE. I don't know her as having had any occupation. I perhaps should have included her as a party functionary, because I think that is what she was. I saw her only during the very early days of my party membership, but I remember her very well.
Mr. WaLTER. Didn't you realize at any time during your member- ship in the Communist Party that cormnunism is a conspiracy for world domination, controlled and dominated entirely by a foreign power ?
Mr. TUTTLE. No, sir; I did not.
Mr. WALTER. Didn't any of the members of these groups-appar- ently you were all intelligent people-realize you were the tools, wittingly or unwittingly, of the nation who is bent on world domination?
Mr. TUTTLE. I can't answer for them. I can only answer for myself, naturally.
Mr. WALTER. It just doesn't seem possible to me that a person of your intelligence, and persons of the apparent intelligence of others who have come in here and testified, didn't realize that the Communist Party is a conspiracy to overthrow the democratic form of government under which you live and under which you are receiving many benefits.
Mr. TTTrrLE. Yes; I appreciate that. I appreciate it is difficult to understand. I think it would be cowardly to beat my breast and say I understood that, because I didn't.
Mr. WALTER. Sitting here, I have, of course, come to the realization why many people became members of one of the only organized anti- Hitler groups in the world, but it is inconceivable that, after attending all these meetings at which intelligent people discussed communism and what it means that there would not at some time have come to them the appreciation that they were not good Americans.
Mr. TUTTLE. I think, sir, that the growing events of history will more and more impress this upon many who still remain so. That is my earnest hope, sir. . Mr. WALTER. In the light of present-day world conditions, don't you feel that those well-meaning but misguided idealists who have been members of this conspiracy will find it necessary to sever their ties immediately or run the risk of being branded traitors?
Mr. TuTTLE. I agree, sir.  639 
Mr. WALTEi. I express the fervent hope that as a result of what you have done and others have done who have done the same thing, namely, come in here and explained the ramifications of this conspiracy, eventually the only persons remaining members of the Communist Party will be the leather-jacket hard-boiled politicians, hardboiled Communists who would resort to sabotage and every other means to prevent us from defending ourselves from this aggression. I can't imagine any professors or teachers remaining even members of Communist-front organizations after the evidence that has been adduced in these hearings. The committee will stand in recess for 10 minutes. (Short recess.)
Mr. WALTER. The committee will be in order. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Tuttle, I endeavored to make it clear in my questioning of you that in the identification of any of the individuals whom you have named, that we should not rely upon pure hearsay testimony to establish that fact.
Mr. TUTTLE. Right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now I would like for you, out of an abundance of precaution, to examine the list which you have prepared of persons who were named by you to be members of the Communist Party, and state whether or not, in any instance, you were relying solely upon what some other person told you in order to fix their identity as members of the Communist Party.
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes, sir. I think in the case of Mr. Dalton Trumbo I told you that he was not in any group I was in. My reason for believing that he was a Communist is due to the fact that I remember
Mr. John Bright telling me that he-that is, Mr. Trumbo-had joined.
Mr. TAVENNER. So, as far as he is concerned, you do not intend to state from your own knowledge that he was a member of the party ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I think that would be more correct; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now is there any other person whose name you men- tioned who would be in the same category ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I think that is also true of Mr. Albert Maltz. I assume that he was because I remember the article which I think one of the other witnesses remarked upon, in which Mr. Maltz said he felt that writers were being directed too definitely by the party, and which he recanted and wrote another article for the New Masses. I would judge from that that this was almost evidence that he was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any other instances? 
Mr. TUTTLE. I don't remember any, sir. I am looking over the list here. If you recall any ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No. I do not know.
Mr. TUTTLE. I find the list almost completely either functionaries or people who were in groups with me. I don't thiiik I missed anyone.
Mr. TAVENNER. In addition to your participation, Mr. Tuttle, as a member of the Communist Party, information has come to" our attention that you were associated with a number of organizations which from time to time were cited as Communist-front organizations. I would like to ask you several questions relating to some of these organizations.  INDUSTRY The Hollywood chapter of the League of American Writers took action in a number of matters, one of which was the sending, on March 29, 1938, of a cable to Leon Blum, in care of the French Embassy in Washington; to President Roosevelt; and to Secretary Hull, demanding that France abandon its nonintervention policy and allow Loyalist Spain to purchase some supplies from France. This cable was drafted by the Hollywood chapter of the League of American Writers. Your name has appeared in connection with it.
Mr. TUTTLE. In reply to that, it is my memory that I was not a member of the League of American Writers, but that I sponsored such a cable. I imagine I was written to and asked to, and I did. That is my memory of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, the idea back of the cable was in full accord with the Communist Party line at that time ?
Mr. TrTTLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I wanted to ask you in particular how that Com- munist Party line was injected into this organization to the extent that it resulted in the formulation of this cable, if you knew about that?
Mr. TUTrLE. I didn't know about it, but I think it is evident, as the Communist Party supported Loyalist Spain throughout the conflict. On the other hand, I believe this was common with a great number of non-Communists at the time. And I would would like to'say that in many Communist-front organizations, the way they attracted people, and the way the Communist Party used the fronts, was to. support a cause which had common support with many people, which was popularly supported. I imagine that the people who were members of the front organizations in Hollywood were told, as the method of glorifying the work of the Communist Party, that the Communists were in the organizations and were responsible for the good, popular ideas. I imagine this was used as a method of recruiting people. I say I "imagine" advisedly, because during the entire time I was a member of the Communist Party, I myself never recruited anyone.
Mr. WALTER. All the members of these front organizations knew, when they were participating in some popular movement, that the Communists were sponsoring that movement; is that correct ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I say in some cases I think they did; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. You will recall, Mr. Tuttle, that it was the Com- munist Party line in September of 1942 to wield an influence upon officialdom in this country, as well as upon the public, for the immediate opening of a second front in World War II ?
Mr. TurrLE. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, the same organization, in fact, Mr. Dashiell Hammett, president of the League of American Writers, released a public statement, according to the Daily Worker of September 14, 1942, wherein it was stated that the League of American Writers was behind President Roosevelt for the immediate opening: of a second front, and that was sponsored by that method through this organization. Do you know anything about the circumstances?
Mr. TUTTLE. No. I can't tell you about the circumstances. I can make some comment on it, however. I believe a great many people. supported the President in this movement for the opening of a second  INDUSTRY 641 front, because they thought, very obviously and perhaps correctly, that this was the quickest way to win the war. Furthermore, I am sure the Communists had an additional bias in that they thought this would help our then ally, Russia. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to ask you about another project of the same organization, the League of American Writers. I believe they formed and supported a school in California to teach courses in the motion-picture industry, and this later became the People's Educational Center. You are familiar with that ?
Mr. TUTTLE. That is correct. Would you care for me to make a statement now about that ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. TUTTLE. I believe-at least this is my memory-that the course which'I participated in, which was a course in motion-picture direction, was started while the organization was still a part of the League of American Writers, and when it later became the People's Educational Center, this and other courses continued. The course in direction was a perfectly legitimate course, an attempt to tell people already in the industry who were interested perhaps in becoming directors, what the experience of directors had been in making moving pictures, from a director's point of view. Practically all the people who gave these lectures were non-Communists, and there was no propaganda of any kind that I was ever aware of in connection with this course. Once again, I think this follows the pattern I have already spoken of. The People's Educational Center also had courses in politics and economics which were of a very left-wing nature, and I think it was their hope that people who found the course good and liked the lectures in direction, passing through the halls and talking to other people there would perhaps enroll for these other courses.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the work of that school discussed, to your knowledge, at Communist Party meetings ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I imagine it was. I don't remember specifically.
Mr. TAVENNER. TO what extent, if any, do you think the school was influenced by members of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. TUTTLE. I imagine it was considerably, in the method I have already mentioned. I think perhaps among the names which I or other pople have identified as being Communists there were several in the organization itself. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you about several other organi- zations with which we are informed you were connected at one time. The American Peace Mobilization is one of them.
Mr. TUTTLE. I don't remember that name specifically, but I think this was at the time when Communists were against our participation in the war; is that correct, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. TUTTLE. I should like to say something specifically about myself, if I may, in this connection. Like all the Communists of that period, I backed this stand. In other words, the stand was that at the time of the pact the war was an imperialistic war; and the Communists didn't do a complete flip-flop supporting it until Russia was attacked. 81595-51-pt. 3- 8 642 There was quite a lot of fast talk in Communist circles at the time of thl pact. I remember my own experience in this very well. I was working in a studio, and news came over the radio while we were working that the Russians had marched through Poland and had joined Hitler and shaken hands with the Hitler troops; and I remember a worker on the lot saying, "I will never trust those Russians again." I was tremendously disturbed at the time. The answers given me did not satisfy me at all. If I may make a few comments, I would like to tell you what convinced me. The Hearst papers at that time carried an article by George Bernard Shaw, and his explanation of what had happened was this: He said that the then Government of Poland had fled; that there was no real representation of Poland; and that the Russians had quite correctly marched through Poland and had, in effect, said to Hitler, "This far and no farther," and used this as a method of gaining time to build up their own defenses. This explanation of George Bernard Shaw's was the one that convinced me.
Mr. WALTER. In view of the fact a great many people became Com- munists in order to take part in one of the only organized resistance groups against Hitlerism, I can't understand why, when the pact was made, they didn't see through it.
Mr. TurTLE. Yes. It is difficult to understand now. I' tried to give you an explanation which is a personal one.
Mr. WALTER. How could they embrace the very thing that caused them to become members of the Communist Party?
Mr. TrCTTri I agree with you. The explanation given at the time was that they were not embracing it, but that they could not lend themselves to support an active fight in a war which they-considered could -very easily turn out to be a war that would turn against Russia.
Mr. TAVENNER. Don't you believe that essentially it was a matter of the Communist Party in this country accepting the dictation from a foreign power ?
Mr. TTrrLE. Yes; although I would like to say very honestly I think there was no dictation in the sense of instructions being sent, because their obvious confusion when there was a switch would lead me to believe they had no direct instructions. of osmosis; they absorbed it automatically. I think it was a form 
Mr. TAVENNER. And you learned at the time of the Duclos letter that that was the accepted method in the Communist Party?
Mr. TurnCT. Yes; I did. 
Mr. TAVEN-NER. I don't want to go into the Duclos letter at this time.
Mr. T'rrLE. All right. I would like to talk about it later, if I may.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. According to information of the committee, you were affiliated with the American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born.
Mr. Tu-rri. Yes. I remember that. never worked with the organization. I lent my name to this. I I think I lent my name in re- sponse to a letter setting forth the objectives of the organization, which at that time I approved of.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you did not attend meetings of this organization. Did you attend meetings of any of the other front organizations to which we have referred ?  643 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TunLE. No; unless I have specifically said that I did, like the People's Educational Center, and so forth.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you were rather active in the Hollywood Democratic Committee at one time?
Mr. TUTTLE. Yes; I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us about that organization? 
Mr. TUTrLE. Yes. This was, I think, the first organization which was used as a front organization on the national and local political scene, and its object was to support what were called progressive candidates. This later developed and changed its name various times, and finally became, I think, the Arts, Sciences, and Professions group.
Mr. TAVENNER. First, did it not become the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions?
Mr. TTrrLE. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. The name was changed, I believe, about the time or soon after the citation of the original committee as a Communistfront organization by the Tenney committee ?
Mr. TUTrLE. That is very likely. Can't tell you whether that was the reason for it, or whether the reason was that there was an organization of a similar name formed in New York, and also, I believe, there was a wish to include other people besides Hollywood people into the organization. I think those are the two reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you leave California for New York?
Mr. TUTTLE. In the late summer of 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any experience with any of these Communist-front organizations to which we have referred after leaving Hollywood ?
Mr. TUrTLE. Yes, sir, I did. I had an experience that was very healthy for me. When I was in New York-I am not exactly sure when this was; I think in 1948-I had never resigned from the Arts, Sciences, and Professions organization, and my present wife answered the telephone one day and a functionary of the New York branch was asking me to signMr. TAVENNER. Branch of what?
Mr. TUTTLE. Of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. Thank you. (Continuing.) To sign a telegram of protest to the American State Department for refusing to allow certain people to enter this country who were supposed to participate in a peace conference. I asked my wife to ask the functionary who was talking on the telephone please to give me the history of some of these people who had been refused, because I didn't know if I agreed or did not agree that permission should be refused. The functionary was very nasty and said I should accept the explanation of the committee at its face value and not question it, and should automatically lend my name. I was very angry and refused to lend my name, and they never sent me the information.
Mr. WALTER. Actually, the people being excluded by the State De- partment were well-known Communists, leaders in the Communist Party; isn't that right ?
Mr. TUTrrE. I don't know because I, as a matter of fact, didn't know their names. In.any event, I refused, and I shall not forget my reaction at the time I hung up. I remember thinking, very, very definitely, "Well, I have reassumed a very sacred right of Americans to 644 N MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY COMMUNISM IN think for themselves," and I realized I had lost that right while I had been a Communist.
Mr. WALTER. Did you ever learn who this functionary was who. called you
Mr. 'TTrruL. No. sir. I imagine it was the secretary of the New York branch, but by the time I got to the telephone I wasn't interested in who it was. I was so mad.
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked you a few moments ago about the Duclos letter, and you stated you had something you would like to say about it.
Mr. TTrLE. Yes. Duclos, as I am sure you know, was a functionary of the French Communist Party. He wrote a letter criticizing the then leader of the Communist Party of the United States, Earl Browder, because Earl Browder had stated that the American Com- munists' collaboration with capitalists in this country would continue ad infinitum after the war, and that socialism would come about without revolution, et cetera. At this time there was, of course, in the party record, the fact that any member of the Communist Party who advocated the overthrow of the Government by force and violence would be expelled from the party. Browder was, in fact, the idol of the Communist Party at that time. As a result of the Duclos letter the party line changed, Browder was. expelled from the party, and it was a tremendous shock to all of us. It was a lasting shock to me, and I think it was then I began thinking of what later became a definite decision of mine to leave the party. I felt that there were two things about this. First, obviously there was a tremendous change which was being advocated by someone from abroad. And secondly, if the new policy were followed it would actually mean that the party was an advocate of violent revolution.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say this letter and the action that was taken had a definite effect upon your decision ultimately to break with the Communist Party ?
Mr. TuTrrLE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENER. When did that break occur ?
Mr. TUrTLE. I didn't leave immediately. I had stopped paying dues. which automatically takes you out of the party, from the time I left, but it took me a long time to make up my mind. I am sure that is hard for a non-Communist to understand, but it was necessary with me. There is, in the first place, a kind of mental incest in the Communist Party groups. You see and talk only to people for the most part who are either Communists or close to the Communist way of thinking. Many people bring up problems that are straw men, because they knock them down with a stock answer. It was not until then I was able to reestablish myself as an independent thinker.
Mr. TAVENNER. You made a very significant statement a while ago. You said when you arrived in New York you associated with liberals who were neither Communists nor Fascists, and that they strengthened you in the position you took ?
Mr. TUTrrLE. Right.
Mr. TAVENNER. When do you consider that your break became final?
Mr. TUrrLE. Well, that is difficult to say. I would say some time in late 1948 or 1949. About this time I had already considered that. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 645 such an instance as this might come up, and I had already made up my mind how I would answer it. As a matter of fact, quite a while before this did come up, the Directors' Guild sent me an absentee ballot asking me to vote on whether or not the members of the guild should sign a loyalty oath. I voted in favor of the loyalty oath, and when it arrived several months later I took it to the consulate in Vienna and signed it. That oath stated I was not a member of the Communist Party or any other group advocating the overthrow of the Government by force and violence.
Mr. TAVENNER. Aside from sending the chairman of this committee a wire, or a cable, requesting permission to appear here and testify, what action did you take when you learned that your name had been mentioned in the course of this investigation ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I think I have already covered that. I took no action -except to release a statement in which I said I had been a Communist, no longer was because I completely disagreed with its aims and tactics. I released that to the press at the time I sent the cable.
Mr. TAVENNER. How were you employed at that time ?
Mr. TUTTLE. I was not employed. I had been employed the previous summer, making a picture for an independent producer. I was to make this summer two more stories with him. Shortly after the story broke, he arrived in Vienna and said that his money people and release people would no longer accept me. Simultaneously, Columbia Pictures asked permission to take my name off the previous picture, The Magic Face. I would like your permission to read a letter I wrote at that time to the Screen Directors' Guild. May I read it, sir ?
Mr. WALTER. Proceed. 
Mr. TUTTLE (reading): As you know, the House Committee on Un-American Activities has accepted my request to testify and I shall appear in Washington on May 21. Some time ago Columbia Pictures asked my permission to withdraw my name as the director of the picture, The Magic Face. At that time I told them through Lou Wasserman of MCA, my agents, that I would grant the permission if (1) they arbitrated the matter with you and you decided that my name on the picture would hurt its sale; (2) if they immediately paid me the $5,000 due me after the picture's release; and (3) if they subsequently discovered that my name on the picture would not hurt its sale that they would publicly announce that I was, in fact, the director of the picture. That was nearly 3 weeks ago and I have heard nothing from Columbia. Meanwhile the House committee accepted my offer to appear and testify. Last night I cabled Lou Wasserman of MCA, as follows: "Committee has accepted my request testify May 21. Confident reaction of -committee and public will be just. Therefore, please inform Columbia I refuse withdrawal my name as unjustified and dishonest." In the first instance I naturally turned to my guild, of which I was one of the founders, to arbitrate the question. And I want you to know about my present stand. As I shall testify, I was a Communist during the fight against nazism and fascism. The Communists as a legal political party had written into their record that they would expel anyone who advocated the overthrow of the Government by force and violence. When the world political situation changed, I left the party and today I completely oppose its aims and tactics. I am sure you will understand that only the absolute truth about myself offers me any comfort today. I have thought constantly about every action of mine during my membership in the past. I submit, with all humility, that I can find nothing in anything I did or thought that was worse than a monstrous error in judgment as to the method I chose to promote peace and security and the well-being of my fellow men. I am confident that after my testimony, the committee, the public, and you, will agree with this. 646 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAvENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Tuttle, it wasn't easy for you to do what you have done here at this hearing, I am sure. 
Mr. T'TLE. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. But you have rendered a great service to us, to this committee, who are determined to bring home to the American people a full realization of what communism is; and I hope, because of this great service, your future employment will in nowise be impaired. I just don't think it is fair, and I am afraid if employers resort to. that sort of thing-by that I mean withholding employment-it will discourage those people who I am sure today are waiting for the opportunity to make their contribution to the work of this committee.. I thank you for your contribution.
Mr. TT'rLE. Thank you, sir.
Mr. WALTER. The committee stands adjourned until 10: 30 tomorrow morning. (Thereupon, at 12:20 p. m., on Thursday, May 24, 1951, an adjourn-- ment was taken until Friday, May 25, 1951, at 10:30 a. m.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 3 FRIDAY, MAY 25, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10:30 a. m., in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. Francis E. Walter presiding. Committee members present: Representatives Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, James B. Frazier, Jr., Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, and Donald L. Jackson. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler and Courtney Owens, investigators; John W. Carrington, clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will be in order. Who is the witness, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ferrer was requested to return this morning. I had completed my examination of the witness, but members of the committee had not had an opportunity to ask such quesfions as they desired to ask. However, Mr. Chairman, I would like to inquire about one other matter.
Mr. WALTER. You may proceed. TESTIMONY OF JOSE FERRER, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, ABE FORTAS AND EDWIN REISKIND-Resumed
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ferrer, you testified about the information made available to actors from Theater Authority. Now, was there any separate service maintained within the organization of which you were a member, Actors' Equity, which supplied the same service?
Mr. FERRER. What service is that, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. That of screening organizations which actors could appear before, or otherwise giving the actors advice regarding organizations before which they were likely to receive invitations for appearances?
Mr. FERBER. As I understand your question: Did Actors' Equity have such a service within its own organization ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. That is right. 647 648 INDUSTRY 
Mr. FERRER. Not to the best of my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then I assume that you did not at any time re- ceive any information in the way of advice from Actors' Equity as to these various organizations before which you were requested from time to time to make appearances?
Mr. FERRER. NO, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Ferrer, I believe that shortly after the subpena ,was served upon you, you issued a statement of some kind, or at least there appeared in the press some quotation from a statement that you had made. Will you explain to the committee just a little bit about that?
Mr. FERRER. Why I made the statement?
Mr. VELDE. What the statement was.
Mr. FERRER. Well, as soon as I find a copy, sir, I will read it to you. The statement to which you refer, I believe, reads as follows: I attest and will so swear under oath that I am not, have never been, could never be, a member of the Communist Party, nor, specifically, am I a sympathizer with any Communist aim, a fellow traveler, or in any way an encourager of I any Communist concept or objective. 
Mr. VELDE. Did anyone accuse you of being a Communist Party member or sympathizer prior to the time you issued that statement?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Why did you issue the statement?
Mr. FERRER. I issued the statement because in the minds of a great many people the implication behind what was published about me in Red Channels, and then the issuance of the subpena and the publication of the issuance of the subpena, was that I was a Communist or Communist sympathizer, and I wanted flatlyMr. VELDE. But you didn't get any such implication from any mem- ber of this committee or from the staff?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. And I think sometime later there appeared a statement in the paper concerning your vindication. Did you issue a statement concerning a vindication of any charges of communism? 
Mr. FERRER. I don't remember any such statement, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. If the gentleman will yield, I believe the statement he refers to was contained in a newspaper article and was that the action in awarding you the Oscar had vindicated you.
Mr. FERRER. I never issued the statement.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you make the statement?
Mr. FERRER. I spoke it.
Mr. KEARNEY. What statement did you make ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't have a copy, but to the best of my recollection I said that I considered being awarded the Oscar an act of faith and a vote of confidence.
Mr. KEARNEY. As I remember reading the statement that Mr. Velde questioned you about, I remember reading, in words or substance, that the action in presenting you the award of the Oscar was a vindication in the eyes of the American people.
Mr. FERRER. I don't know where you read that, sir. I never said any such thing.  649 
Mr. VELDE. You were quoted in the newspapers as saying you felt you had been vindicated. Were you misquoted? 
Mr. FERRER. I certainly was. was nothing to vindicate. I never said I was vindicated. There 
Mr. WALTER. As I understand it, you merely expressed your own opinion that having been awarded the Oscar was a vindication?
Mr. FERRER. My exact words, sir, because I remember them very clearly, were that I considered being awarded the Oscar an act of faith and a vote of confidence.
Mr. KEARNEY. By whom? 
Mr. FERRER. By the people who awarded me the Oscar.
Mr. VELDE. Well, of course, you realize that there are a great many witnesses who are subpenaed before this committee who attach no particular signifinance to it. They are asked to come here to give information.
Mr. FERRER. That they themselves attach no significance to it?
Mr. VELDE. Yes.
Mr. FERRER. Certainly, I realize that. 
Mr. VELDE. There are a lot of witnesses called here to testify- merely to give information to the committee.
Mr. FERRER. I realize that, Mr. Velde. I don't think everybody else does, though, and when I was served a statement was made by Ward Bond in which Ward Bond said if I was willing to swear I was not a Communist, then I was perjuring myself. This appeared on the front page of Variety. 
Mr. VELDE. Of course, that has nothing to do with this committee.
Mr. FERRER. No; and I don't think my statement on receiving the Oscar has anything to do with the committee, Mr. Velde. 
Mr. VELDE. I am glad you made that clear.
Mr. FERRER. I am sorry I didn't make it clear sooner.
Mr. VELDE. I don't recall your exact testimony concerning your col- lege education and the other phases of your life that followed your education. When did you leave Puerto Rico ? 
Mr. FERRER. I first left at the age of 7 months and returned within a month or two; I am not sure.
Mr. VELDE. Were returned. 
Mr. FERRER. I am told I left. But I know that I did leave at the age of 6 and came to New York to live.
Mr. VELDE. Did you make any trips back to Puerto Rico
Mr. FERRER. Yes; very frequently.
Mr. VELDE. Very frequently ?
Mr. FERRER. Yes. 
Mr. VELDE. Were you aware of any Communist Party movement in Puerto Rico?
Mr. FERRER. When? I am not trying to be funny, sir. When?
Mr. VELDE. During the time you were there, any time.
Mr. FERRER. I shall explain that the last time I went back to Puerto Rico, until very recently, was in 1933. At that time I was 21 years old, I had graduated from college, and had not been back for many years. The time of my frequent returns to Puerto Rico was when I was 8, 10, 12. I was not aware of any Communist Party movement at that time; no, sir. 
Mr. VELDE. Were you aware of any Communist movement on the campus at Princeton University ?  
Mr. FERRER. No, sir; I was not.
Mr. V'ELDE. I believe you said you were also at Columbia ?
Mr. FERRER. For 1 year after I graduated from Princeton; yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. You had no idea there was a Young Communist League organized in the various institutions, or schools, you attended? 
Mr. FERRER. No, sir; I certainly did not. I am aware now, of course, that there is Communist activity in Puerto Rico, and in fact I once took a stand against it. I shall tell you, sir. If you would like to hear about that 
Mr. WALTER. Proceed.
Mr. FERRER. In the spring of 1949, when I was closing my season in Silver Whistle, the University of Puerto Rico cabled me that they were offering me an honorary degree of doctor of philosophy at the graduation exercises in June 1949. I said I would be very proud to accept the degree, and I would fly to Puerto Rico to do so. Then I began receiving messages, cablegrams, from Puerto Rico, and from Habana, Cuba. In one instance a couple of young men called on me at the theater, urging me, as the cablegrams had urged me, not to accept the degree because the University of Puerto Rico was a tool of American imperialism, and that the Government of Puerto Rico, which had a direct bearing on the University of, Puerto Rico, was the enemy of Puerto Rican freedom. Another gentleman was offered a degree at the same time I was, Mr. Romulo Gallegos, who had once been President of Venezuela. I am informed that he then refused the degree and did not appear in Puerto Rico. I did, and I have here an affidavit from the chancery of the university which describes those events.
Mr. VELDE. What particular significance did you attach to the tele- grams saying that the American Government was imperialistic ?
Mr. FERRER. The only significance I could attach was that I was in complete disagreement with any such concept.
Mr. VELDE. Did you get the idea that they came from Communist sources in Puerto Rico
Mr. FERRER. Undoubtedly.
Mr. VELDE. Were they sent under the name of the Communist Party?
Mr. FERRER. No; but there had been a Communist-led strike at the university the year before, and this affidavit will bear that out.
Mr. VELDE. HOw did you find out they were Communist-inspired ?
Mr. FERRER. Because I immediately got in touch with the chancery of the university and I said, "I am receiving these messages. What is it all about?"
Mr. VELDE. When you were appearing at these Communist-front organizations, lending your name to them, you did not ask if they were Communist fronts?
Mr. FERRER. I did not, because in almost every case I was appearing with persons who were not Communists, whom I did not regard as Communists, and I used them as signposts. I was interested in reelecting Roosevelt in 1944, and in fighting fascism, and that includes Stalin and the Communist Party.
Mr. VELDE. Did you make any inquiry as to whether these organi- zations at which you were appearing were Communist fronts? COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 651 
Mr. FERRER. Not if I saw the name of Fiorello LaGuardia or Mrs. Roosevelt or William Allen White or Dorothy Thompson, or other people I trusted. May I offer this in evidence?
Mr. WALTER. It will be received. (The affidavit of the chancery of the University of Puerto Rico, above referred to, is filed herewith.)
Mr. VELDE. When did you first become aware there was a Communist movement in New York?
Mr. FERRER. I guess I dimly became aware of it since right after World War I. All the cartoons indicated that. I was never personally, actively aware of it until recent years.
Mr. VELDE. You probably were aware that there was a Communist Party movement, but you say you didn't know the purpose of the movement or theMr. FERRER. Oh, no. I know the purpose of the movement, sir.
Mr. VELDE. At that time did you know the purpose of the Communist Party movement; that is, as early as you can remember? I am not trying to pin you down.
Mr. FERRER. I had a vague impression, sir, from drawings of Bolsheviks and unshaven men carrying bombs, that the purpose of the Communist Party was to overthrow the American Government, which I still consider it to be.
Mr. VELDE. Can you place the time for the recognition of that fact? I know this is hard to do, and I am not trying to pin you down.
Mr. FERRER. It goes back quite a ways, Mr. Velde. There is no "and" or "if" about it. The Communist Party and communism, and largely, I suppose, the Russian connotation, goes back quite a ways.
Mr. VELDE. Did you realize at that time, too, that the Communist Party of the United States was a part of the whole international Comintern set-up?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir; I did not.
Mr. VELDE. When did you first become aware of that, if you did become aware of that?
Mr. FERRER. I became aware of that positively very, very recently, .sir.
Mr. VELDE. Within the last 2 or 3 weeks ?
Mr. FERRER. NO. I would say within the last year.
Mr. VELDE. Within the last year. And how did you happen to come to that conclusion ?
Mr. FERRER. I came to that conclusion because when the lists in Red Channels appeared, and it became clear that I had been associated with what we will call Communist-front organizations, I went about making inquiries, and among the people I consulted were my lawyers,
Mr. Reiskind and Mr. Fortas, and people whose judgment I trusted.
Mr. MOULDER.. Could you elaborate on your use of the term "asso.ciated with"?
Mr. FERRER. People I associated with?
Mr. MOULDER. You said you associated with Communist-front organizations. What did you mean by "associated with"?
Mr. FERRER. I mean I appeared at benefits for organizations I did not know at that time were Communist fronts.
Mr. MOULDER. But that since have been revealed to be? 652 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. FERRER. Since have been revealed to be.
Mr. MOULDER. You were not a member of these organizations?
Mr. FERRER. I never was a member of the organizations. I was used as an entertainer most of the time, or to introduce entertainers, with the exception, of course, of the ICC, where I was chairman of the Theater Division.
Mr. VELDE. Did you ever meet a person you knew to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. Not at that time I did not; no, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Were you ever asked by anyone, in this country or elsewhere, to become a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. I believe you stated you have never cast a vote in any of our elections ?
Mr. FERRER. That is right, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Do you consider it a part of your citizenship, a part of your duty as a good citizen, to vote ?
Mr. FERRER. I do; yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. I believe you gave as your reason for not casting a vote that you were playing in summer stock ?
Mr. FERRER. No. I can be very specific. In 1932 Iwas too young. In 1936 I just didn't care to vote. I did nothing about it. In 1940, when I wanted to vote for Mr. Roosevelt, I was living in New York and preparing a new play, Charley's Aunt, and my residence was in Ossining, and I would have had to go to Ossining, interrupt preparations, to get an absentee ballot to vote. In 1944 I was on tour with Othello. In 1946 I was on tour with Silver Whistle. I let the days slip by when I could have gotten an absentee ballot until it was too late.
Mr. VELDE. Do you mean you have never cast a ballot in any election, city, State, or national? 
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Yet you were interested in politics, were you not?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. And you were interested in the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee and the other organizations mentioned in a political way, I assume ?
Mr. FERRER. In joining the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, I was interested in the political sense of helping to fight Franco.
Mr. KEARNEY. You were also at the same time politically interested in sponsoring the candidacy of Benjamin Davis for reelection as councilman of New York City on the Communist Party ticket?
Mr..FERRER. Mr. Kearney, I have never been interested in sponsoring the candidacy of anybody on any Communist Party ticket knowingly and intentionally.
Mr. KEARNEY. Well, you were sponsoring the candidacy of Mr. Davis, were you not ?
Mr. FERRER. Sir. I admitted under oath Tuesday that I did not remember sponsoring his candidacy, but that I probably did. I cannot state under oath that I did sponsor him. I am willing to accept the responsibility for it.
Mr. KEARNEY. You also said the other day that you did not know
Mr. Davis was a Communist.  INDUSTRY 653 
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. How many years have you lived in New York City ?
Mr. FERRER. Off and on since 1918.
Mr. KEARNEY. Benjamin Davis was quite a prominent figure in New York City, wasn't he?
Mr. FERRER. Not to the best of my'knowledge; he wasn't prominent. 
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you still persist in your answer here the other day that when you acted in the May Day celebration you didn't know it was Communist-sponsored?
Mr. FERRER. I certainly do.
Mr. VELDE. Have you been able to recall in the last 2 days since your appearance here Tuesday the names of any persons who called you in behalf of the various organizations mentioned, one of which was the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee?
Mr. FERRER. I have had my secretary go through my files, and in the time which I had, which was limited, I did a certain amount of research. I have three names to submit. I would like to point out I have already mentioned the name of Margaret Webster in connection with the Moscow Art Theater. I have here a letterMr. VELDE. I think, Mr. Chairman, I should point out that no unusual significance should attach to these names. 
Mr. FERRER. I have here a letter dated March 16, 1948. This letter invites me to attend the meeting on March 23, 1948, in the grand ballroom of the Hotel Astor at 9 p. m. May I refer to the testimony of Tuesday in connection with this?
Mr. WALTER. Yes. 
Mr. FERRER. Thank you.
Mr. Tavenner said: On page 102 1 of Tuesday's testimony, On March 23, 1948, about 1,000 writers and actors had a meeting at the Hotel Astor, at which was formed, so we understand, an Anticensorship Committee, which was instructed to carry out a strong campaign on a national scale against the House Committee on Un-American Activities, against the Tenney committee of California, and to fight against what was known as the Dewey plan of establishing a similar committee in New York State. You were alleged to be one of the speakers at this gathering. And I answered: I introduced several people, sir. Now, I have here the letter inviting me to attend this meeting, which I would like to submit for the record. It is signed by Edward Choate, secretary-treasurer of Stop Censorship. In this letterMr. WALTER. Read the letter.
Mr. FERRER (reading): DEAR JOE : On-February 24 more than 250 leaders in literature, music, theater, radio, press, and films met at the Savoy-Plaza Hotel in response to a telegram summoning them to consider the rising menace of censorship which is threatening to engulf and stifle freedom of expression in every field of the creative arts in America. Nine leaders from different branches of the arts and letters had sponsored the meeting by signing the telegram of invitation, and other equally concerned individuals had lent their energies to the mechanics of providing a hall and preparing a program for the conference. The Savoy-Plaza conference adopted a declaration and action resolutions giving expression to the marked determination of American artists to join together, plan together, and assert themselves together-to stop censorship. I See p. 570, this publication.  INDUSTRY An All-Arts Stop Censorship meeting to take action on the decisions reached at the Savoy-Plaza has been arranged for Tuesday evening, March 23, in the grand ballroom of the Hotel Astor at 9 p. m. Plans for permanent Stop Censorship organization to spearhead a drive against suppression of freedom of thought and expression will be presented.. We count on your active participation in this movement. Sincerely yours, EDWARD CHOATE. 
Mr. WALTER. Who is Edward Choate ?
Mr. FERRER. Edward Choate is listed here as secretary-treasurer of Stop Censorship.
Mr. WALTER. You knew Edward Choate?
Mr. FERRER. Yes. Edward Choate is a theatrical manager on Broadway. I wanted to point out that there is no mention in this letter of action against the House Un-American Activities Committee. I went to the meeting as a meeting against censorship and no other movement. I was against censorship.
Mr. WALTER. Does that have a list of other sponsors?
Mr. FERRER. Yes. It doesn't say sponsors, It just has a list of names: Jay Gorney, Moss Hart, John Hersey, Christopher La Farge, Richard Lauterbach, Minerva Pious, Howard Taubman, Hudson Walker, and Margaret Webster.
Mr. WALTER. Do you know any of those people ?
Mr. FERRER. I know quite a few of them. I know Moss Hart, who is a playwright and director. I know John Hersey, a novelist. I have heard the name of Richard Lauterbach in connection with Life magazine. I know Minerva Pious, who is an actress. I know Howard Taubman, who is a prominent music critic, on the Times, I believe. He is the author of a biography of Toscanini. And I know Margaret Webster, a director. She directed Othello.
Mr. VELDE. So, when you went to the meeting, you had no idea of signing a petition to abolish the House Un-American Activities Com- mittee ?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir. The only thing I knew about the meeting was what the letter said.
Mr. VELDE. Did you do anything along that line ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't believe so.
Mr. VELDE. You never have participated in any movement of any kind to abolish the House Un-American Activities Committee?
Mr. FERRER. I am not certain, sir. I have no recollection of participating in any such movement.
Mr. VELDE. I believe you testified the other day-if I am wrong,. please correct me-that a number of times when you made these public appearances you were called on the telephone and subsequently you got permission from a man named Corelli. Can you recall now the names of any of the persons who called you on the telephone?
Mr. FERRER. My testimony, sir, to the best of my recollection, wasas follows: That in most cases I was not contacted directly; that I either was called or received a letter, and that since I very seldom go to my office, and since almost all my mail and telephone calls are received at the office, what happens, I call my office and my secretary will tell me so-and-so called, and I have a letter inviting  INDUSTRY 655 me to this or that organization, and I say "Yes" to this and "No" to that.
Mr. VELDE. Do Jou have any record in your office of such telephone calls ?
Mr. FERRER. I was going to bring up two other names I discovered in my files between Tuesday and today. I discovered that Helen Bryan communicated with me with reference to the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee on several occasions. I discovered that Adele Jerome of the ICC-Independent Citizens' Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions--communicated with me relating to plans for a city center.
Mr. VELDE. It has come to my attention and to the attention of other members of the committee that oftentimes Communist Party members do not carry cards, nor do they attend Communist Party meetings, and there is no way of identifying them as actual Communists, yet they are more in favor of the Soviet Union and in favor of the Communist Party than many who carry Communist Party cards and participate in Communist functions. I wonder if that has come to your attention ?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir; I have heard that.
Mr. VELDE. Most of the Soviet espionage agents I have had any- thing to do with do not carry Communist Party cards. Don't misunderstand me. I am not accusing you of any espionage.
Mr. FERRER. Thank you, sir.
Mr. VELDE. I am just explaining. I am a little bit discouraged about your failure to cast your political ideas into the more concrete form of a vote, but I understand some people do not consider that an important part of his citizenship.
Mr. FERRER. I consider that a very important part of my citizenship, Mr. Velde, and I repeat, on most of the occasions when I would have voted-the 1940, 1944, and 1948 Presidential elections-I was unable to do so because I was not in my home town.
Mr. VELDE. You didn't know you could cast an absentee ballot ?
Mr. FERRER. Yes; but in a small town like Ossining you have 2 or 3 days to do it, and if you haven't been home for weeks and months- you have to go in person and register.
Mr. VELDE. That is true, but you said that you were registered.
Mr. FERRER. That I was registered? No; I never said that, sir.
Mr. VELDE. You have never registered to vote ?
Mr. FERRER. NO, sir.
Mr. VELDE. I am not familiar with the laws of the State of New York. I think it has a law to do with this. You are not now a registered voter?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir. You have to register in person for each election.
Mr. WALTER. It is 20 minutes after 11. Anything further, Mr. Velde?
Mr. VELDE. No.
Mr. WALTER. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. For the record, probably this has been all gone over before, but I am going to ask you, Mr. Ferrer if you were a member of the American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born?
Mr. FERRER. I was never a member of that committee, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you affiliated with it in any manner? 656 INDUSTRY 
Mr. FERRER. I was invited, if I recall correctly, to attend a dinner. I did not attend the dinner, but I believe-and I am saying this without refreshing my memory-I believe my name was'used as a sponsor for the dinner. Is that correct, sir ?
Mr. IiARNEY. I believe that is so. Are you a member of the Amer- ican Committee for Spanish Freedom ?
Mr. FERRER. No. I have no recollection of that.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you a member of the American Society for Russian Relief ?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir. 
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you a member of the Artists' Front To Win the War?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you connected with the artists, writers, and professional division of the Citizens Non-Partisan Commission for the Reelection of Benjamin J. Davis, Jr., to the City Council of the City of New York?
Mr. FERRER. Was I what? 
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you connected with the artists, writers, and professional division of the Citizens Non-Partisan Commission for the Reelection of Benjamin J. Davis, Jr., to the City Council of the City of New York?
Mr. FERRER. I do not remember any such connection, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you remember the Independent Citizens' Com- mittee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you remember the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee?
Mr. FERRER. I was not a member; no, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you a member of the Spanish Refugee Appeal?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you a member of the theater committee of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship
Mr. FERRER. I think I was, Mr. Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Well, there have been a number .of organizations that your name has been connected with, as being associated or affiliated with, and most of them you deny ?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir. I am sorry. You asked if I was a member. That is not the same as associated or affiliated.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you associated or affiliated with them? 
Mr. FERRER. I was associated or affiliated with some.
Mr. KEARNEY. Not all of them?
Mr. FERRER. No, not all. 
Mr. KEARNEY. Which ones were you not associated or affiliated with?
Mr. FERRER. If you will repeat them I will say if I was or was not.
Mr. KEARNEY. I will ask the stenographer to repeat them. (The reporter repeated as follows: "American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born.")
Mr. FERRER. I was affiliated in the sense that I think my name was used, probably legitimately, as a sponsor of that dinner. I was not a member of the committee.  657 
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you ever disaffiliate yourself with that com- mittee ?
Mr. MOULDER. Sponsor of what, did you say ? 
Mr. FERRER. Of a dinner. In my mind I was never affiliated with it. I sponsored a dinner for it.
Mr. KEARNEY. As to any of the organizations I have mentioned that you have been affiliated with or associated with, have you ever disafilited or disassociated yourself from any of them?
Mr. FERRER. I do not believe so, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. I think that is all.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Ferrer, in your testimony on Tuesday you stated that you had endorsed the candidacy of Benjamin J. Davis for city councilman of New York City ?
Mr. FERRER. I do not believe I did.
Mr. JACKSON. You did not say that you had lent your name to the use of his campaign committee? I am asking that from my memory of your testimony. What did you say?
Mr. FERRER. May I look it up, sir ?
Mr. JACKSON. Well, I don't think it will be necessary. I think you said in a letter to the chairman of this committee that you had permitted the use of your name.
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir. That was covered in the testimony.
Mr. JACKSON. You said that at the time you permitted the use of your name in the Davis campaign you did not know he was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. Excuse me. Because I am under oath here, I would like to remind you that I said under oath Tuesday-and I would like to quote so I won't double-cross myself unintentionally. Mr. Tavenner asked me, at the bottom of page 42: 1 Do I understand you are in doubt as to whether you permitted your name to be used in support of the candidacy of Benjamin J. Davis for councilman or not? And I answered on page 43:2 I said I did not recollect giving permission to use my name, but after seeing the document submitted, with the list of names on it, I told Mr. Kearney, and I told Mr. Wood, that the chances were I probably had authorized the use of my name. Then Mr. Tavenner referred-well, that is the end of that.
Mr. TAVENNER. I referred at that point to your letter to the chairman of this committe, in which you categorically stated that you had permitted the use of your name for that purpose.
Mr. FERRER. That is right, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. At the time your name was associated with the candidacy of Mr. Davis, I believe you said you did not know that Mr. Davis was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. That is correct, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. When did you discover that Mr. Davis was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. I am not sure, sir. I think probably when the 11 were indicted and his name became prominent in the newspapers. 1 2 See p. 550, this publication. See p. 550, this publication. 81595-51-pt. 3-9 658 INDUSTRY 
Mr. JACKSON. What was your reaction at the time you discovered that you had been used, possibly as a tool, in the campaign for Mr. Davis' reelection? What was your personal reaction?
Mr. FERRER. My personal reaction was anger that I had been misused and taken advantage of.
Mr. JACKSON. Did your anger and disillusionment lead you to take any positive action to disabuse the public's mind as to your position with respect to Mr. Davis' political philosophy?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you repudiate your support? ' Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you have any knowledge of communism, organized or on an individual basis, in your particular field ?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know of your own personal knowledge a member of the Communist Party? 
Mr. FERRER. NO, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Perhaps I should suggest to you that you may know some of the people who have come before the committee and admitted Communist Party membership. I don't know that you do, but in fairness I am suggesting that you may know some Communists or former Communists through their own admissions.
Mr. FERRER. In the theater ?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes; and this is not in any way a trick question. Your answer is you do not know anyone in the theater who is a Communist ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't know whom you have had here, Mr. Jackson, but I cannot truthfully say-I do not know anyone to be a Communist in the theater.
Mr. JACKSON. I believe you testified that you could not recall any association or connection with the Artists' Front To Win the War; is that correct?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. When, if at all, did you learn of the Communist nature of the Artists' Front To Win the War ?
Mr. FERRER. Within the last few months, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. What action, if any, did you take to disabuse any misconception the public may have entertained as to your political philosophy ? Did you repudiate the Artists' Front To Win the War? 
Mr. FERRER. No, sir; I did not, because my name was linked with that organization in 1942, I believe, just as my name was linked with Davis in 1945. The one thing I felt was incumbent upon me to do, when I was subpenaed and a lot of people were apt to believe that I was a Communist, I made a public statement that I was not a Communist. That was the only public repudiation I made, but I tried to make it as all-embracing as Ipossibly could.
Mr. JACKSON. In all frankness, is it any great wonder that the American public might entertain some doubts concerning your record, considering the number of Communist-front organizations and activities with which your name has been linked ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't know if it is a great wonder or not, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. VELDE. Will the gentleman yield ?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes.  INDUSTRY 659 
Mr. VELDE. You do realize that a great deal of harm can be done to the United States by lending your name to these Communist-front organizations?
Mr. FERRER. Definitely, sir. 
Mr. VELDE. Do you conclude that by lending your name to these Communist-front groups, possibly you have done some harm to this country ?
Mr. FERRER. If these groups to whom I have lent my name have done harm to the country then I undoubtedly did. I never lent my name knowing.they were Communist fronts or Communist controlled. If I had known that they were, I would not have lent my name. 
Mr. VELDE. But you did become acquainted with the fact they were Communist-front groups, and you did nothing to disassociate yourself from those groups? 
Mr. FERRER. I have been completely inactive with these organiza- tions for many years. The Artists' Front To Win the War, my last connection with that was in 1942.
Mr. VELDE. I believe Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, testified that a person might join one or two Communist-front organizations without realizing that they were subversive influences; but that when you join five, six, seven, or more you certainly do have some knowledge of what they stand for. Do you agree with the conclusion of Mr. Hoover, if I am quoting him correctly ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't know, sir.
Mr. VELDE. That is all. That is not true in my case. 
Mr. JACKSON. Were you a sponsor of the Scientific and Cultural Conference for World Peace ?
Mr. FERRER. Not to the best of my knowledge. 
Mr. JACKSON. Did you have any knowledge of your name being used in that connection ?
Mr. FERRER. I probably did after the event, or at the time of the event, or a few days preceding.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you have?
Mr. FERRER. I don't know.
Mr. JACKSON. You don't know that your name was used in connec- tion with this event ? 
Mr. FERRER. I know now, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. When did you first discover that your name was used? 
Mr. FERRER. I don't know when I discovered it. 
Mr. JACKSON. Let's fix it a little more definitely than that. Did you know it today when I asked you the question ? 
Mr. FERRER. If I had learned it today or the other day I would have told you I found out today or the other day, but I don't know when I found out. I may have found out through Red channels months ago.
Mr. JACKSON. A number of people listed as having been sponsors of the Waldorf conference took exception to the listing and protested such use of their names to this committee. As a result their names were removed from the report of this committee; is that correct, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. That is correct. 
Mr. JACKSON. In other words, these individuals took positive steps to protect their names and characters. 660 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Conversely, no protest was made by you with respect to a meeting which had gained so much adverse and critical publicity in the press and over the radio networks of this country. The State Department for many, many weeks was in a hubbub and furor over the question of granting or refusing visas to known Communists who proposed to attend tle conference. Some were denied, and others were admitted. That was a matter of public knowledge to everyone who read the newspapers. To illustrate the fact that many of these organizations were post "cold war"-that is to say that they were not organizations into which individuals stumbled by mistake or through ignorance-here is a partial list of the sponsors of the conference, which I believe should be inserted in the record. Their insertion does not necessarily mean that any or all of them are Communists. The fact is that most of them have been substantial adherents of the Communist philosophy: Stella Adler, Michael Blankfort, Marlon Brando, J. Edward Bromberg, Edward Chodorov, Jerome Chodorov, Lee J. Cobb, Lester Cole, Norman Corwin, Howard da Silva, Jules Dassin, Jo Davidson, Paul Draper, Howard Fast, Jose Ferrer, Will Geer, Uta Hagen, Garson Kanin, Howard Koch, Millard Lampell, Ring Lardner, Jr., Joseph Losey, Arthur Miller, Sam Moore, and Linus Pauling. I say again, Mr. Ferrer, that this is a question of Communist activities in the post cold-war period. Some of these activities have occurred many, many months after the American public became rightfully concerned over the Communist conspiracy. Quite naturally, good and loyal Americans look with suspicion upon individuals who lend their. names to Communist-front organizations and who participate in functions staged by these groups. It appears to me a natural suspicion. In your testimony you said you did not recall having attended a meeting of the Artists' Front To Win the War held on October 16, 1942. Is that correct?
Mr. FERRER. If I so stated, it is correct.
Mr. JACKSON. Would it refresh your memory of this meeting if I said that Mr. Charles Chaplin flew from the west coast to be a speaker ? 
Mr. FERRER. It certainly would.
Mr. WALTER. Where was it held, Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. I believe it is in the testimony here.
Mr. KEARNEY. Carnegie Hall.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, if your memory is refreshed in that connection, perhaps you can give us some information ?
Mr. FERRER. It is refreshed to the extent that I am perfectly certain I did not attend the meeting.
Mr. JACKSON. You know Mr. Paul Robeson?
Mr. FERRER. I am trying to remember, if I may interrupt, whether I was even in New York on October 16, 1942. If I was not, it would make that clear. I am certain I did not attend the meeting. Once more, if I may interrupt you again, Mr. Jackson, in connection with the Waldorf conference, I would like to remind you that although I did not publicly repudiate the use of my name, I stated on Tuesday that on the opening day of the conference I attended a party given in honor of Ed Sullivan as the guest of Mr. Rutgers Neilson of RKO; and I submitted a telegram from Lawrence Langner in which he stated I had expressed my distaste for what happened to artists in the Soviet  INDUSTRY 661 Union. So if I did not publicly repudiate, I did privately repudiate the use of my name.
Mr. JACKSON. Don't you realize that in the absence of a repudiation you lay yourself open to suspicion by the American public?
Mr. FERRER. That is why I made the statement denying Communist membership.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know Paul Robeson?
Mr. FERRER. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever discussed with Mr. Robeson his politi- cal philosophy or beliefs ?
Mr. FERRER. We have had a number of discussions in connection with the reelection of Mr. Roosevelt in 1944; the candidacy for Vice President of Mr. Truman; the importance of Mr. Willkie, who died that year. That was the kind of political discussions I had with Mr. Robeson.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you have reason to believe, as a result of those dis- cussions, that Mr. Robeson was a Communist or Communist sympathizer ?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. You were associated with Mr. Robeson in the Davis campaign to the extent that your name was used in that campaign; were you not ?
Mr. FERRER. To that extent; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you know that Mr. Robeson has long been asso- ciated with Communist fronts and Communist-front activities?
Mr. FERRER. I do know it now; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you believe Mr. Robeson would support, say, a Republican for public office?
Mr. FERRER. No; I don't think he would.
Mr. JACKSON. I don't mean to be facetious. I am trying to put as much distance between the two as I can. Do you believe he would, seriously?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Not many people do.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you believe that Mr. Robeson, by his activities in these various front organizations and on their behalf, has aided the cause of the Soviet Union as opposed to the cause of the United States?
Mr. FERRER. Well, I think he has done the Soviet Union much more harm than he ever intended to. 
Mr. JACKSON. That, of course, is a matter of opinion. You.believe, then, that he has not aided the Soviet Union, or has not attempted to?
Mr. FERRER. I apologize for my answer. to aid the Soviet Union; yes. I think he has attempted 
Mr. JACKSON. I take no exception to your answer. Perhaps he has done more harm to the Communist cause among American Negroes than he has rendered service to the Soviet Union. I think your answer is quite correct in that regard. You have never to this date repudiated the use of your name in the Davis campaign ?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever disavowed sympathy with the political beliefs of Mr. Paul Robeson ? You and he were close personal friends; were you not ?
Mr. FERRER. I have not seen him since 1946. 662 INDUSTRY 
Mr. JACKSON. You were closely associated with him in Othello for some time?
Mr. FERRER. We played in Othello together 2 years, yes. I have not seen him for over 5 years.
Mr. JACKSON. The Committee for Protection of Foreign Born was declared by the Committee on Un-American Activities to be a Communist. front in 1944. Were you a sponsor of or associated with the committee ?
Mr. FERRER. I do not have any definite recollection, but it is quite possible I did permit them to use my name as a sponsor; that was in 1943.
Mr. JACKSON. You were listed as a sponsor of this organization?
Mr. FERmRFJ. Sponsor of the dinner, Mr. Jackson. That was before it was declared to be subversive.
Mr. JACKSON. Following the declaration of its subversive nature, did you take any steps to repudiate your sponsorship of the dinner?
Mr. FERRER. No, I did not. In the first place, I am not sure I knew it had been cited as subversive. In the second place I sponsored a dinner; that was the extent of it. I have never considered myself to be a member of the committee or to have any ties with the committee.
Mr. JACKSON. In your testimony it is indicated you made several public appearances on behalf of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee. I believe you appeared for that committee in San Francisco in 1945; is that correct ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't believe I appeared, sir. I did not appear.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you appear for the same organization at the University of Wisconsin ?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir. To clarify my statement on the San Fran- cisco appearance, Mr. Jackson, I was in the hall that day. I remember hearing Mr. Walter Huston make a speech.
Mr. JACKSON. You were present? 
Mr. FERRER. I was present but I did not appear.
Mr. JACKSON. March 5, 1945, was subsequent to the time the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee had been declared subversive or communistic in nature. Did you know at the time of the Wisconsin meeting that the organization had been proscribed as a Communist front?
Mr. FERRER. Had I known it, I would not have appeared.
Mr. JACKSON. When did you first know that it had been?
Mr. FERRER. I am not sure when I found out.
Mr. JACKSON. You did find out prior to these hearings ?
Mr. FERRER. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. Did you take any actiori at that time to disassociate yourself from the organization?
Mr. FERRER. No. I don't know if it exists today.
Mr. JACKSON. I would like to touch again on the Frank Fay affair. It is my understanding that Mr. Fay was-probably "put on trial" is not the proper term, but given something in the nature of a kangaroo court before Actors' Equity because of the attack made by Mr. Fay on the nature of a meeting at Madison Square Garden by and on behalf of the Spanish Refugee Appeal? Will you explain the procedure followed by Actors' Equity in calling the meeting to pass on Mr. Fay ?  INDUSTRY 663 
Mr. FERRER. The procedure followed by Equity was the standard procedure. Some person or group of persons brings charges against a member of Equity, and the charges are heard before the Equity Council. Both sides are argued and the council determines what course of action shall be taken.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you recall how many people participated in the council meeting in the Frank Fay hearing?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir; I don't. 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you recall what the decision was, by any chance?
Mr. FERRER. I do not; not accurately.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know Vincente Lombardo Toledano, one of the foremost Communists in the Western Hemisphere and a leader of the radical forces in the Mexican labor movement ?
Mr. FERRER. NO.
Mr. JACKSON. You have never to the best of your knowledge met 
Mr. Toledano ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't believe I have ever met Mr. Toledano.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever been at a social affair where he was present?
Mr. FERRER. I seem to remember he may have been present at the birthday party for Paul Robeson.
Mr. JACKSON. That is correct. That is a hazy recollection. He was present. Did you intro- duce Mr. Toledano to the audience that day ?
Mr. FERRER. I doubt it. I don't remember that I introduced any- body. I doubt it.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you realize at that time that a number of persons in attendance at the birthday party were either Communists or individuals with long records of Communist affiliations, associations, or activities ?
Mr. FERRER. I do not believe so. 
Mr. JACKSON. Did you realize the political complexion of the group which attended this birthday party?
Mr. FERRER. No. If I had known that the political complexion was Communist, I would not have attended. There were 8,000 people present that day.
Mr. JACKSON. I would like to introduce into the record an article from the Daily Worker of April 18, 1944, entitled "Happy Birthday, Paul Robeson," with a photograph captioned: "Ben Davis, city councilman, being introduced by Jose Ferrer, the Iago in Othello and one of Robeson's dearest friends. Ferrer acted as chairman during part of the festivities."
Mr. WALTER. Mark it and let it be received in evidence. (The article from the Daily Worker of April 18, 1944, above referred to is marked "Ferrer Exhibit No. 1" and filed herewith.) 
Mr. JACKSON. Upon how many occasions would you say that you have checked with Theater Authority as to the nature of organizations or activities at which you were asked to appear ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't think I ever checked as to the nature of activities. 
Mr. JACKSON. You have never checked?
Mr. FERRER. Not as to the nature of activities.
Mr. JACKSON. Has Theatre Authority ever suggested voluntarily that you not appear at any given meeting or function ? SRetained in committee files. 664 INDUSTRY 
Mr. FERRER. What one does, to answer your question, you call up Theater Authority and say "I have been invited to appear at such and such a meeting. Is it all right for me to do so?" They say "Yes" or they say "No" or they say it is outside their jurisdiction.
Mr. JACKSON. From what source does Theater Authority draw its authority to screen or classify organizations or activities?
Mr. FERRER. I believe I said Theater Authority was organized by several actors' and performers' unions to protect the actors and the performers whose services might have been used incorrectly.
Mr. JACKSON. I think you mentioned Mr. Corelli was the head of Theater Authority during your knowledge of it. Do you know whether or not Mr. Corelli is still there ?
Mr. FERRER. I am certain he is no longer head of it.
Mr. JACKSON. You don't know who the new head is?
Mr. FERRER. I am not sure they have a head. I am under the impression they have an acting executive secretary.
Mr. JACKSON. You know the Daily Worker to be the official organ of the Communist Party in this country, do you not?
Mr. FERRER. I assumed that it was, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. On what did you base that assumption ?
Mr. FERRER. On what everybody said about it.
Mr. JACKSON. I imagine the content influenced your opinion ?
Mr. FERRER. Undoubtedly, except that I have never seen a copy of the Daily Worker, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Just for your information, Mr. Ferrer, I might'say that you obtained considerable space from time to time in the Daily Worker, and quite favorable notices in many instances.
Mr. FERRER. Quite unfavorable in other instances, too, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. I know nothing of your notices from the professional standpoint, but from the political standpointMr. FERRER. From the political standpoint quite unfavorable. Would you like me to submit from the Daily Worker some unfavorable notices.
Mr. JACKSON. If you desire.
Mr. WALTER. I think it might be well to include them in the record at this point.
Mr. FERRER. I think it is unfair to leave the implication that the Daily Worker carried only favorable notices.
Mr. JACKSON. I have no objection to your submitting them.
Mr. FORTAS. May we have permission to submit the Daily Worker articles later ?
Mr. WALTER. Yes. They will be included at this point.1
Mr. FERRER. I have a copy of the resolution showing that: Theater Authority was organized in 1934 by the Actors' Fund of America, Actors' Equity Association, National Variety Artists, Episcopal Actors' Guild, Catholic Actors' Guild, Jewish Theatrical Guild,. Stage Relief Fund, League'of New York Theaters, and American Federation of Actors. And among the aims of Theater Authority was: To sanction and approve meritorious theatrical benefit performances in which members of the theatrical profession shall appear either without compensation or without adequate compensation. 1 Retained in the files of the committee.  INDUSTRY 665 Also: To withhold its support and approval from theatrical benefits given for improper purposes and unworthy causes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you submit that document also?
Mr. FERRER. I will be glad to. (The document above referred to is filed herewith.)
Mr. JACKSON. Don't you feel that the notices in the Daily Worker which were favorable in nature-that is not to say you did not have some critical ones; I am prepared to believe that-they were put in the Daily Worker because it was felt that you-and I am not saying by deliberation-were lending aid and comfort to the end goals of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. I don't know what the end goals of the Daily Worker are.
Mr. JACKSON. The same as the goal of the Communist Party: To overthrow the Government of the United States by force and violence, if necessary. I think it is high time that fact be recognized by all.
Mr. FERRER. I know that is the goal of the Communist Party.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Ferrer, did it ever occur to you, in such things as the Waldorf conference and others in the post cold war period, to look around and see where you were going and in whose company?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Still there were no repudiations on your part of the sponsorships or activities in which you participated ?
Mr. FERRER. Most of these I did not consider myself connected with.
Mr. JACKSON. You are connected with anything in which your name is used. You are as much connected with the Waldorf conference as you were with Othello in the public mind. Your name, as late as 1949, was linked with the names of self-admitted Communists in many cases, and in other cases with the names of persons who came here before this committee of the Congress and refused to testify. It is almost unbelievable to some of us-I can only speak for myself-that it would be possible to sit on the same platform with and lend your name to Benjamin J. Davis for election to the New York City Council, and be unaware of the fact that Mr. Davis was one of the most prominent Communist members and functionaries in the Western Hemisphere.
Mr. MOULDER. Will the gentleman yield ?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. 
Mr. MOULDER. What witnesses do you refer to who have appeared before this committee ?
Mr. JACKSON. Take the Waldorf conference for example. The first name that strikes the eye is that of Will Geer, who refused to answer questions bearing on Communist Party membership or Communistfront activities. Howard da Silva is another. Almost all of the 10 who went to jail are listed here as sponsors.
Mr. MOULDER. How is he associated?
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Ferrer's name was linked with others in this group and no repudiation has ever been made. I would be the last person in the world, Mr. Ferrer, to say you are a Communist. I don't believe you are.
Mr. FERRER. I can assure you that I am not. 666 
Mr. JACKSON. I don't believe you are a member but I do believe that you have given aid and comfort to the Communist Party.
Mr. FERRER. That may be so. The only platform I was on with Benjamin Davis was in April 1944 at a birthday party, at which point, to my mind he was linked with the Democratic Party. As to my link with Da Silva, in testimony at this hearing and before, my position has been diametrically opposed to his. I wrote a letter to this committee offering all my records and checks. I had an informal hearing before appearing formally, at my request. I have done my very best to help you. I believe in what you want to do. I am against the Communist Party. I don't want it. And however negligent I may have been, my actions have never been other than antiCommunist and pro-American.
Mr. JACKSON. I think that is a splendid statement.
Mr. FERRER. It is also true, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Splendid and probably true. It would have carried twice as much conviction a year ago as it carries today, when your presence before this committee follows service of a subpena. I very frankly cannot place credence in some of the statements that you have made.
Mr. FERRER. That I have just made?
Mr. JACKSON. No; in your testimony.
Mr. FERRER. In other words, I perjured myself?
Mr. JACKSON. That I do not say.' I say I can't place credence in some of the things you have said. That is as much my constitutional right as the constitutional privilege claimed by some of the witnesses in refusing to testify.
Mr. FERRER. I am not questioning your constitutional right.
Mr. JACKSON. That is all. 
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Ferrer, have you ever known an individual who was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. I didn't know him to be a member of the Communist Party, Mr. Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Anyone?
Mr. FERRER. At the time I did not know him to be.
Mr. KEARNEY. Have you ever known anyone to be?
Mr. FERRER. I now know Mr. Davis is a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. Any others?
Mr. FERRER. I can't think of any at the moment. There may have been. If you tell me Mr. Da Silva is a member of the Communist Party, I know him. I know Mr. Geer. I know these men, but I never knew them as members of the Communist Party. 
Mr. KEARNEY. That is all.
Mr. JACKSON. I think the record should show I did not say that 
Mr. Da Silva and Mr. Geer were members of the Communist Party. I said they refused to testify.
Mr. FERRER. I said if you did say.
Mr. MOULDER. This may be repetition. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. FERRER. No.  INDUSTRY 667 
Mr. MOULDER. Have you ever been sympathetic to Communist or subversive activities?
Mr. FERRER. NO, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Have you permitted the use of your name as a sponsor, or have you appeared personally, at an organization knowing at the time it was a Communist-front organization?
Mr. FERRER. NO, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Kearney mentioned several organizations and asked whether you had disassociated yourself from those organizations, and I believe you said you had not. Would you care to explain that reply ?
Mr. FERRER. In most cases-not in all, but in most cases-I never considered myself associated with them.
Mr. MOULDER. Then you meant you never were associated with those organizations; is that what you mean?
Mr. FERRER. In most cases I was not.
Mr. MOULDER. I ask whether your appearance at those affairs was in the spirit of professional entertainment or as a sympathizer with the aims and objectives of the organization ?
Mr. FERRER. Very often I was in sympathy with the avowed pur- poses of the organization, such as "Stop censorship," the avowed purpose of which was to stop censorship.
Mr. MOULDER. Was it ever in the spirit of being in sympathy with the Communist Party ? 
Mr. FERRER. No, sir. If I had known it was a Communist organization I would not have appeared.
Mr. MOULDER. Do you care to elaborate on what action you could take to repudiate your activities along that line?
Mr. FERRER. At this point I have publicly repudiated any- and all Communist links and sympathies. I never had any, and I would like to say my statement was issued in the spirit of a complete repudiation find to clarify all positions along that line. 
Mr. MOULDER. When it was brought to your attention you did take action to repudiate it; is that so? 
Mr. FERRER. When the subpena was served on me; yes.
Mr. JACKsON. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. MOULDER. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. The repudiation followed acceptance of the subpena?
Mr. FERRER. Yes.
Mr. MOULDER. Was that the first occasion you had to repudiate it?
Mr. FERRER. This is the first time I have taken a public stand that I never was a Communist or Communist sympathizer.
Mr. MOULDER.. After you were informed of Davis' Communist affiliation, did you repudiate your action in favor of his candidacy? What action did you take on that ?
Mr. FERRER. I did not find out Mr. Davis was a Communist, to the best of my knowledge, until he was indicted. That was many years after 1D45, and I took no action.
Mr. MOULDER. Did you actively campaign for his reelection?
Mr. FERRER. I did not. 
Mr. MOULDER. Did you vote for him?
Mr. FERRER. No, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Are you a member of any church ? 668 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. FERRER. No, sir. That is all.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Frazier.
Mr. FRAZIER. Mr. Ferrer, earlier in the day you testified that you
Mr. MOULDER. received some correspondence or wires on the occasion when you were to receive an honorary degree, I believe, from the University of Puerto Rico?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. FRAZIER. Did you at that time or previously give to the com- mittee the names of the young men who wired you or communicated 'with you urging you not to take that degree ?
Mr. FERRER. I have never given those names but will be glad to supply them. 
Mr. FRAZIER. I wish you would supply them to the committee.
Mr. FERRER. I will be glad to.
Mr. WALTER. I think this is very important, because apparently, according to this affidavit from the University of Puerto Rico, the movement to prevent you from accepting an honorary degree was Communist-inspired, and all part of the plan to keep alive the antiAmerican feeling; and the Communists unquestionably felt if you would appear it would make a contribution towards bringing about better relations between the United States and Puerto Rico.
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. WALTER. You said that two' young men had called at your home?
Mr. FERRER. In the dressing room at my theater. 
Mr. WALTER. Called upon you requesting that you do not accept the degree. Do you know who those two young men were ?
Mr. FERRER. I do not. I refused to see them.
Mr. WALTER. Did you know the purpose of their visit?
Mr. FERRER. Yes.
Mr. WALTER. You don't know for whom they spoke ? 
Mr. FERRER. No. I knew they were linked to the group that had sent me cablegrams urging me not to attend.
Mr. WALTER. Were those cablegrams signed? ' Mr. FERRER. I think so.
Mr. WALTER. Do you think you could find them ?
Mr. FERRER. I think so. I would like to say, in connection with this affair, I have always done the very best that I could to promote good relations between Puerto Rico and the United States of America. I am completely against Puerto Rican independence.
Mr. WALTER. What did you do to promote better relations between Puerto Rico and the United States ?
Mr. FERRER. I have tried, the best I could, to present Puerto Ricans in their best light. I think there are many unhappy Puerto Ricans in New York, and I have done what I could for them in the way of financial contributions, lending my name, and so on. This was a very important blow to be dealt to the enemies. The Academy of Arts and Languages gave me an award for good speech on the stage in 1949, and.in my acceptance speech I said that one of the sources of my pride in accepting the award was that I accepted it not only as an individual but as a Puerto Rican, and  INDUSTRY 669 that the island of Puerto Rico was extremely proud of me on that occasion.
Mr. WALTER. I would like to call your attention to this "Stop censorship" meeting of March 23, 1948. Who is Jay Gorney ?
Mr. FERRER. I have no idea. 
Mr. WALTER. His name is the first name on the list.
Mr. FERRER. I have heard his name, but don't know who he is.
Mr. WALTER. Were you ever associated with him in any way ?
Mr. FERRER. Not that I know of.
Mr. WALTER. You were never engaged in any activities with Mr. Gorney?
Mr. FERRER. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. WALTER. Who is Minerva Pious ?
Mr. FERRER. A radio actress. 
Mr. WALTER. DO you know her?
Mr. FERRER. Yes. 
Mr. WALTER. Have you been associated with her in any of these movements referred to? 
Mr. FERRER. I believe so.
Mr. WALTER. Which ones? 
Mr. FERRER. I believe the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee.
Mr. WALTER. What censorship did you feel should be stopped when, you agreed to participate in this movement?
Mr. FERRER. Any possible threat to control plays that might appear on Broadway through outside sources. My main concern has always been with the theater.
Mr. WALTER. What threats had been made? 
Mr. FERRER. There was one very serious one where the play Trio had to be closed because the license would not be renewed if it was not closed.
Mr. WALTER. When was that? 
Mr. FERRER. I don't remember. We were all alarmed over signs of censorship in the theater.
Mr. WALTER. What signs of censorship were there that caused you to be concerned?
Mr. FERRER. I can't answer that question specifically as to what signs there were except this Trio affair. There must have been signs if people like Moss Hart were sufficiently aroused to lend their names and attend the meeting.
Mr. WALTER. Just on the strength of the statement that there was a "rising menace of censorship which is threatening to engulf and stifle freedom of expression in every field of the creative arts in America," you were willing to participate in this movement?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. WALTER. Without having any evidence whatsoever that there was an attempt on the part of anybody or any agency to impose censorship ?
Mr. FERRER. I thought by going to the meeting I might find out. Censorship is a continual threat which does not always manifest itself promptly in the theater.
Mr. WALTER. I was wondering if the purpose was to stop this committee.
Mr. FERRER. If it were, Mr. Hart and I would be two who would have nothing to do with it. 670
Mr. WALTER. INDUSTRY Anything further? 
Mr. TAVENNER. The criticism of Trio arose out of the question as to whether the play was decent?
Mr. FERRER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That was an entirely different type of censorship from that implied by the criticism of this committee, the Tenney committee, and the plan in New York to set up an Un-American Activities Committee. It was an entirely different field?
Mr. FERRER. According to that letter I am sure it was different.
Mr.'TAVENNER. The play Trio to which you referred is an entirely different thing from the film Trio which is now being played in motion picture houses?
Mr. FERRER. Entirely different.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will appreciate it if at the conclusion of your testimony you will give the cables or telegrams to which you referred to Mr. Nixon, including any additional information you may have regarding the identity of the individuals who sent them. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER, The committee now stands adjourned. (Thereupon, at 12:15 p. m. on May 25, 1951, the committee adjourned.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 3 MONDAY, JUNE 25, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE OF UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to call, at 10: 30 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood (chairman), Francis E. Walter, Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order. Let the record show that there are present the following members of the committee: Messrs. Walter, Kearney, Jackson, Potter, and Wood. Before proceeding in this hearing I would like to make this announcement: Gen. C. A. Willoughby has requested that the time of his appearance as a witness before this committee, which was pre- viously fixed as Thursday, June 28, be postponed temporarily. Gen- eral Willoughby is on sick leave and is under medical care. His ap- pearance as a witness will be postponed to a date mutually satisfactory to him and to the members of the committee. Four or five days' public notice will be given of the date of his appearance. Whom do you have, Mr. Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Robert Rossen.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Rossen, will you raise your right hand and be sworn, please? Do you solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. ROSSEN. I do.
Mr. WooD. Have a seat. TESTIMONY OF ROBERT ROSSEN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, SIDNEY COHN
