Mr. ROSSEN. Robert Rossen. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes; I am, sir. 671 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. COHN. Sidney Cohn, 1776 Broadway, New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you please state for the committee your educational background?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes. I was educated in the public schools of New York City. I went to several high schools in New York City, and I attended New York University for several years.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you complete your work at New York University ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I am not quite sure of the date. I think it was around 1929 or 1930.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. ROSSEN. New York City, March 16, 1908.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you go from New York to Hollywood and engage there in your profession ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes. I worked in the theater first for about 5 years as a playwright, and I directed several plays. I went to Hollywood in 1936 as a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe a little more in detail the nature of your employment in New York prior to your going to Hollywood ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, sir. I wasn't employed, as such, by anyone. I was more or less of a free-lance writer. I had a play produced in 1935 by a producer named Sidney Harmon. I directed a play several years before that, a play called The Tree. I'have forgotten the name of the producer; it was Ira something or other. I wrote another play, Corner Pocket, which William Harris, Jr., was to produce, but he never got around to it.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the name of the play ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Corner Pocket. I then was put under personal contract by Mervyn LeRoy, who at that time had his own unit at Warner Bros., and I came to Hollywood in July 1936.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Richard MaibaumMr. ROSSEN. M-a-i-b-a-u-m.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). The author of the playMr. ROSSEN. That I directed?
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). Called The Tree?
Mr. ROSSEN. The Tree, yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which you went to Hollywood ?
Mr. ROSSEN. As I recall it, Mervyn LeRoy or his wife, I am not .sure which one, had money invested in this play called The Body Beautiful. They always liked the writing of the play, and when the play closed they told me that a little later they would put me under contract, and they did. I then came to Warner Bros., at which Mervyn LeRoy had his unit.
Mr. TAVENNER. So, your first employment in.Hollywood was with Warner Bros.? .
Mr. ROSSEN. Actually, that isn't quite accurate. My first employment was for Mervyn LeRoy, but when he left Warner Bros. they took over my contract, and I stayed at Warner Bros. for a total of 71/2 years, from 1936, I think, to 1944 or 1945; I am not sure of the exact date.  INDUSTRY 673 
Mr. TAVENNER. Your work at that time was that of a screen writer; was it not?
Mr. ROSSEN. At Warner Bros. it was. I just worked as a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then will you proceed ?
Mr. RossEN. Do you want me to tell you what I did there ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, I worked on many screen plays at Warner Bros. I did pictures like Marked Woman, They Won't Forget, Sea Wolf, The Roaring Twenties, The Edge of Darkness. Those are the main ones I remember at Warner Bros.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at that time write on the picture Body and Soul?
Mr. ROSSEN. Not at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was later?
Mr. ROSSEN. That was later. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then will you state what you did in your profession after leaving Warner Bros.?
Mr. ROSSEN. After leaving Warner Bros., I left Hollywood for a year-I think that was sometime in 1944-and did nothing. When I came back I still continued as a screen writer, but on a free-lance basis.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you go in 1944?
Mr. ROSSEN. To New York City. I came here with my family, lived here a little less than a year, and then went back to Hollywood. I then wrote three or four pictures. I wrote a picture, Walk in the Sun. I also wrote The Strange Love of Martha Ivers, and I think I wrote a picture called Desert Fury as a screen writer. I had always wanted to be a director since I came to Hollywood, and I got a chance to direct a picture, Johnny O'Clock. I wrote that picture and directed it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What year was that?
Mr. ROSSEN. 1945, I think. (Representative Francis E. Walter left hearing room.)
Mr. ROSSEN. I then was employed by a company called Roberts Productions in connection with Enterprise.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did that employment begin ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I am trying to remember; either late 1945 or early 1946. I was employed as a director to direct the picture called Body and Soul. After Body and Soul I formed my own company and signed a releasing deal with Columbia Pictures to make three pictures, I think it was, originally.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were working for Roberts Productions, were you interested in the production company itself ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No, sir. I was an employee. I was employed on a 10-week guaranty, and actually it took 21 weeks for me to finish my employment. I was an employee of the company.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were the owners of Roberts Productions at that time?
Mr. ROSSEN. As far as I know, they were Bob Roberts and John Garfield. That is the best of my knowledge. I was not at all interested financially in the picture. 81595-51-pt. 3-10 674 
Mr. TAVENNER. John Garfield was the star of that production Body and Soul was he not ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were the director? 
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the cameraman?
Mr. ROSSEN. James Wong Howe. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Jack Berry have any connection with the pro- duction of that picture or with the company? 
Mr. ROSSEN. Not to the best of my knowledge. I never saw Berry on the lot.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are acquainted with Jack Berry; are you not ?
Mr. ROSSEN. May I advise with counsel, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Certainly.
Mr. ROSSEN (after consulting with his counsel). I decline to answer that question on the ground it violates my rights under the first and fifth amendments, and may tend to incriminate me. 
Mr. WooD. May we suspend a moment? The committee is without a quorum. (Short recess.)
Mr. WOOD. Let the record show, please, that acting under the authority vested in the chairman of this committee, I hereby set up a subcommittee to continue this hearing, composed of Messrs. Kearney, Jackson, Potter and Wood. We are all present.
Mr. Counsel, you may proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you to ask you various questions re- lating to the picture Body and Soul, as you were describing pictures that you had participated in,-either as a screen writer or as the producer.
Mr. RossEN. Director.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you continue?
Mr. ROSSEN. I then went over to Columbia Pictures. As I said before, I set up my own company, and the very first pictureMr. TAVENNER. What was the date of that, please?
Mr. ROSSEN. I think it was in July or June. I am not sure of the date. I am sure it was in the summer of 194-7 or the late spring. I contracted with Columbia to produce, direct, and write three motion pictures. The very first picture I made there, I made as a producer. It was a picture called Undercover Man. I think the star of that picture was Glen Ford. The second picture that I made was All the King's Men. I produced, directed, and wrote that picture. I acted individually in an executive capacity in the picture No Sad Songs For Me, in which Margaret Sullavan starred. I didn't get any credit on the picture, but I put it together. I think the late Sam Wood was to make the picture, and when he died I was called in to take over. The last picture that I made was The Brave Bulls, made in Mexico. I produced and directed that picture. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you produce that picture? 
Mr. RossEN. I began the preparation for that picture in late 1949. I started to shoot in the spring of 1950. I finished the cutting in September or October, after which I took my family and went to Europe.  675 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was your director in that /picture ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I directed the picture.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was your cameraman ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. James Wong Howe and Floyd Crosby. Floyd Crosby -did about 80 percent of the work. The picture was interrupted by the death of my mother. I came up to Hollywood; then when I went back we had special-effect work to do, and I took James Wong Howe -with me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Jack Berry connected in any way with the :production of that picture?
Mr. ROSSEN. May I advise with counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Surely. 
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). No; he wasn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you write the screen play for the picture Prelude to Night ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Perhaps I have the title wrong. It may be that you will recall it this way: I think it was adapted from a book written by Dayton Stoddard.
Mr. RossEN. Prelude to Night. Oh, yes. This was a project that originated, I can't even remember the date, but by an agent called Arthur Lyons. He had as his partner Joe Justman, J-u-s-t-m-a-n. They asked me to write the screen play, but I didn't. I merely acted in an advisory capacity.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall when the picture was made ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No; I don't. I wasn't at all interested in it after I was through with my work.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you work with Alvah Bessie and Gordon Kahn in connection with that picture?
Mr. ROSSEN. May I advise with counsel, please? (After conferring -with his counsel:) I shall have to decline to answer that question on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate and degrade me, thus violating my rights under both the first and fifth amendments. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Alvah Bessie or Gordon Kahn?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer the question on that grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. With regard to two of the pictures you have previously mentioned, the pictures entitled "They Won't Forget" and "'Body and Soul," Joseph North, on June 5, 1948 suggested that a roll of honor order be established, and the the order include Robert Rossen for these two pictures. Do you recall that
Mr. RossEN. No; I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Joseph North?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you acquire the rights to a screen story entitled 'Knock on Any Door"
Mr. ROSSEN. No; I didn't. I negotiated for them, but I never acquired them.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were your plans with regard to the production of that picture? 676 INDUSTRY 
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't remember any specific plans. I remember read- ing the book and being kind of excited about it as a melodrama, but I think it was bought by Mark Hellinger.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it your plan to base the screen version of that book on the Sleepy Lagoon case ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No; it wasn't.
Mr. TATENNER. How are you presently employed, or in what profession are you presently engaged ?
Mr. ROSSEN. At present I have no specific plans. I still have my company, but there are no plans for further production at this particular time until I can buy some books and get into business.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time the committee endeavored to subpena you in the early part of this year, I believe you were in Mexico; were you not'?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes: I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you return from Mexico?
Mr. ROSSEN. I would say about the latter part of May. I think I wrote a letter to the committee. I wrote the letter the day after I returned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Promptly upon your return from Mexico you got in touch with the committee, having learned they desired your presence as a witness ?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is not quite the sequence of events. I received a letter written to me at Hollywood from-Chairman Wood. This letter was forwarded to me. I was in Acapulco at the time. When I came back from Acapulco I wrote the committee a letter that it was hard to say when I would be back, but I would notify the committee when I got back, which I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. And having done that, the committee subpenaed you for appearance here at this time?
Mr. ROSSEN. Several days later; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. In what work were you engaged in Mexico ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I had done a picture down there a year ago, as I have stated, and I had a picture project in mind. Mexico is important to me as a place for making pictures, because I can make them much more cheaply there, and as an independent producer I had made up my mind that I would no longer work under the major studios' structure if I could help it, primarily for economic reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Rosen-excuse me; Mr. Rossen.
Mr. ROSSEN. It doesn't make any difference. It is both.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your name?
Mr. ROSSEN. I was born Rosen, and I changed it about 20 years ago to Rossen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ROSSEN. I should like to emphatically state that I am not a member of the Communist Party. I am not sympathetic with it or its aims. I don't believe in any divided loyalty, and in the event this country goes to war I stand ready now, as I always have, to bear arms in its defense and to serve in whatever capacity the country may call on me, against any and all of its enemies, including the Soviet Union.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU state you are not sympathetic with the aims of the Communist Party. Has that always been true?- COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE. INDUSTRY 677 / 
Mr. RossEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question on the grounds it may tend to incriminate and degrade me, and thus violate my rights under both the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Information has come to the attention of the com- mittee that the Communist Party may have reregistered its members on June 4, 1951. Were you a member of the Communist Party on June 3, 1951?
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party on June 5, 1951?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand you to say you are not now a member of the Communist Party? 
Mr. RossEN. I said I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you entered this hearing room?
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party yes- terday ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information showing that in 1943 you held membership card No. 25111 of the Communist Party, and that you were assigned to club 1 of the northwest section of the Communist Party in Los Angeles. Did you have a Communist Party card assigned to you in 1943 ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds it may tend to incriminate and degrade me, thus violating my rights under both the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. There has been testimony, Mr. Rossen, during the course of these hearings involving communism in Hollywood, by several witnesses relating to you. Mr. Richard Collins testified that according to his knowledge you were a member of the Communist Is that true or is it false ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know Mr. Richard Collins? Party. 
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds pre- viously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Meta Reis Rosenberg also testified before this committee that you were a member of the Communist Party. Did you ever attend a Communist Party meeting at which Mrs. Meta Reis Rosenberg was present?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party cell to which she was assigned?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with an individual by the name of Sidney Benson, who lived for a while in the home of Paul Jarrico in Hollywood ? 678 
Mr. ROSSEN. May I consult with counsel, please? (After con- ferring with his counsel:) I decline to answer that question on the grounds it may tend to' incriminate and degrade me, and thus violate my rights under the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted at any time with Louise Bransten ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time attend a Communist Party meeting in the home of Ring Lardner, Jr.? . Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that the Northwest Section of the Communist Party of Los Angeles County had a reception for James Ford, and that this reception was held in the home of Sam Moore May 2, 1944, and that you were in attendance at this reception. Is that correct or not?
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). I will decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with the fact that an organization was formed in Hollywood known as the Motion Picture Alliance?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has information that a meeting was held in the home of Lester Cole in 1944 concerning matters relating to the Motion Picture Alliance,' and that among other persons, you were present. Do you recall that?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds it may tend to incriminate or degrade me, and thus violate my rights under both the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVNNER. Did you attend the People's World benefit party held at the home of E. Y. Harburg on July 16, 1941? By "benefit" party I mean a party for the benefit of'the publication, People's World, and that you bought a ticket for $10 for admission to the party.
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever contribute money for the benefit of the People's World on any other occasion ?
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Elizabeth Leech and Mar- jorie Potts, Marjorie Potts being also known as Marjorie Fiske?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to state that you progressed from the work of a screen writer to that of a producer largely for financial or economic reasons. Did you state that?
Mr. ROSSEN. No; that isn't quite true.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is not quite true. Well, what was the reason
Mr. RossEN. My reason was that I have always held an opinion that motion pictures is a very important medium, and I felt that the only way a writer could function in motion pictures was to function as a complete entity, that is, as a writer, and he should also be able to 1The meeting in question is alleged to have been in opposition to the formation of the Motion Picture Alliance. From its inception the history of the Motion Picture Alliance reflects opposition to the Communist Party and movement. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 679 direct and produce and cut his picture. And of course the money was much greater in terms of controlling profit. In other words, if the picture made a bigger profit, your share could be that much larger, and if you had faith in what you did, you felt the gamble would pay off.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you have in mind when you referred to the motion picture as being an important medium ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. The motion picture is an important medium, sir, be- cause it is one of the few mediums that reaches so many people and can bring entertainment to so many people. Writing short stories or poetry, you have very little audience.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the Communist Party recognized that fact too, even back prior to 1925, when the Communist International di- rected the Communist Party of the United States to infiltrate that medium. Are you aware of that?
Mr. ROSSEN. If you are talking about 1925; no, sir, I am not. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you aware at any time that that was the pur- pose of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds it may tend to incriminate or degrade me, and thus violate my rights under both the first and fifth amendments. 
Mr. TAVENNER. There has been testimony before this committee during the course of these hearings to the general effect it was a very difficult if not an impossible thing for screen writers and directors to influence the content of films, because of the supervision that was exerted over the film by the producer. Do you agree with that?
Mr. ROSSEN. May I consult counsel? (The witness consulted with his counsel.) Well, I do agree with that theory. In my experience in motion pictures, I don't see how any picture can reach its final stage without the most minute, detailed scrutiny of the people in the front office. After you have finished a screen play, it must meet the require- ments of the moral code and receive the seal of approval of the censorship board. In my releasing deal with Cohunbia there was a clause in the contract that Harry Cohn and I had to mutually approve the material.
Mr. TAVENNER. At least under present-day regulations and the way they are enforced, you say it would be very difficult to influ- ence the content of a film without the collaboration of the producer ?
Mr. RossEN. I would say it would be almost impossible, and to the best of my recollection, sir, in all the years I have been in the film industry, I can't recall how this would be at all possible.
Mr. TAVENNER. Having been informed of your Communist Party membership by testimony before the committee and other information in the possession of the committee, the committee, of course, desires to know to what extent these factors were taken into consideration by you in shifting from the field of that of a screen writer to that of a producer.
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). I would like to answer that question, sir.
Mr. COHN. May we consult for a moment, Mr. Tavenner? (The witness and his counsel consulted.) 
Mr. ROSSEN. Without conceding the validity of your statement, sir, I should like to say that my interest in becoming a director and producer was primarily one in which (1) I thought I could express 680 INDUSTRY my ability; (2) I thought I could get increased prestige and whatever economic gains I could get coincident with this rise of mine in the film industry.
Mr. JACKSON. You had no political motives, then?
Mr. ROSSEN. None whatsoever. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean to state, then, that the possibilities of aid to the Communist Party had no function or no place whatever in your decision to enter the field of the producer ?
Mr. ROSSEN. None; none at all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time while you were a producer lend ,your influence or support to the employment of a person known to you to be a member of the Communist Party in the work of production of pictures ?
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate and degrade me, thus violating my rights under both the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVBNNER. DO you not agree that one way of influencing the content of pictures is to place in important positions in the production field those who are sympathetic with the aims of communism, or who are actually members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. RossEN (after conferring with his counsel). I stated my position on that before, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is that, as it may bear on that question?
Mr. ROSSEN. It would be, in my opinion, almost impossible to in- fluence the content of any picture, during my experience.
Mr. TAVENNER. But that would not be true if the producer were a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ROSSEN. It is true in any major studio, because the ultimate control is vested in the executive producer.
Mr. KEARNEY. What about independent studios ?
Mr. ROSSEN. You would have to get a motion picture release, and that is conditioned upon the ,final product. Up to I think 7 years ago, the control of both distribution and production was the same. For instance, I might point out, in terms of clarifying it, that my con- tract with Columbia Pictures calls for Columbia to release the motion pictures I make. Therefore, they act in a sense as distributor. Yet the controls over the picture are vested in Columbia Pictures. I cannot make a picture with which Columbia does not agree.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is when you are operating for Columbia?
Mr. RoSSEN. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Supposing you were operating as an independent producer?
Mr. ROSSEN. I would have the same problem. I could not get a re- lease. If I wanted a release in terms of the major picture houses, I would have to go to a major company to release it. Otherwise it would be a very foolish and unwise project, to make a picture without hav- ing a release.
Mr. TAVENNER. But a person occupying the position of a producer is in position to aid the Communist cause in connection with the production of pictures, is he not ?
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). I don't think there is anything more I can add to what I have already said on this subject. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 681 Whatever inference the committee wants to draw from it, they have that right.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask one question here?
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. PoTTER. Do I understand the distribution of a film is determined by the major companies?
Mr. ROSSEN. The major distributors. There are only about six major companies that control the distribution of films. You would have to distribute through those companies.
Mr. POTTER. DO those companies also produce films ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Up to now they have. The matter is now in process of consent decrees.
Mr. POTTR. A film that you might produce, you have to get some major company to distribute that film? Is that correct?
Mr. ROSSEN. May I explain it, sir ?
Mr. POTTER. Yes.
Mr. ROSSEN. The making of a motion picture involves a great deal of money. In order for me to make a picture as an independent motion picture producer, I would have to go to financial backers and ask them to put up the money to make the film. This would involve a sum around $1 million. No group of backers, no matter if they were private or motion picture men, would put up that kind of money unless they were guaranteed a release of that picture. The only way they could hope to get. their money back would be through a major release of that film. You cannot make a film involving the kind of money I have spent on films, and not get a major release. So your controls are financial and release.
Mr. PorrER. Do the companies that release the film work with you ahead of time to know what kind of picture you are putting out?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes. The only experience I have had in this field has been with Columbia. Columbia happens to be, in addition to distributor, a financial participant in the film. I have to use Columbia studio facilities. I have to confer with the executive producer of Columbia Pictures. They must be satisfied the picture is in accordance with the code; and also, they will not approve the making of the picture until they have read the material.
Mr. POTTER. Have they ever sent a picture back for certain cuttings ?
Mr. ROSSEN. They always have cuttings rights ultimately. They are allowed a certain amount of cut. I am allowed to cut for two previews. After two previews, Columbia has a right to cut the film in any way they want to. This is to meet censorship board requirements. If the New York Board of Censors says, "This scene cannot be shown," Columbia has the right then to cut that picture in accordance with the various censorship codes in the various States. Columbia has the right to cut it after I am through with two previews.
Mr. POTTER. Without your permission?
Mr. ROSSEN. Without my permission. That is stated in the con- tract.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily Worker of February 6, 1932, and Feb- ruary 17, 1932, carries an advertisement to the effect that Robert Rossen would direct a three-act play entitled "Steel" on February 17 and 18, and that this play was given under the auspices of the Workers School and the Daily Worker. 682 Did you direct that play ? INDUSTRY 
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). Yes, I directed that play.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances that led to procuring your services as director of that play ?
Mr. RosSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate and degrade me, thus violating my rights under both the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. WOOD. Do you so decline ?
Mr. ROssEN. I do. SMr. TAVENNER. The February 6, 1945, issue of New Masses contains an article relating to a New Masses Cultural Awards Dinner at the Hotel Commodore on January 22. According to the article, you were chairman of the evening and accepted an award on behalf of John Howard Lawson. Will you tell the committee who arranged for your services as chairman at this dinner ?
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to a dinner program, the Joint AntiFascist Refugee Committee sponsored a Free Peoples' Dinner at the Beverly Hills Hotel on July 20, 1942, at which dinner Paul Robeson was guest of honor. The names of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rossen appear as members of the committee of sponsors. Do you recall this occasion?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer the question on the grounds previously stated. I do decline to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee who solicited your name as a sponsor of this dinner?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER According to a letterhead dated October 24, 1945, you were a sponsor of the Spanish Refugee Appeal, which was a project of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee. Will you tell the committee who solicited your support of this movement ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer the question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Another letterhead of the same organization, dated April 28, 1949, also reflects your name as a sponsor. On November 24, 1947, the Attorney General of the United States, in a letter to the chairnn of the Loyalty Review Board of the Civil Service Commission, designated the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee as a Communist-front organization. Did you, at that time or any subsequent time, make any move toward severing your affiliations with that organization?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate or degrade me, thus violating my rights under both the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. WooD. Will counsel excuse me about 2 minutes ? (Short recess.)
Mr. WOOD. Proceed.  INDUSTRY 683 
Mr. TAVENNER. The motion picture committee of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship arranged a reception for Michail Kalatocov, a Russian film director. I believe he represented the Russian film industry in this country at that time, was sent here on a special mission. According to the press release Robert Rossen was one of the sponsors of this reception. Do you recall this occasion?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee the circumstances under which your assistance was sought in connection with this reception, if it was sought?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you connected or affiliated in any way with the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the March 29, 1938, issue of New Masses, the Hollywood chapter of the League of American Writers sent telegrams to President Roosevelt, Secretary of State Hull, and the French Embassy, urging them to request France to open her borders to the purchase of supplies by Loyalist Spain. The name of Robert Rossen appears as a signer to this telegram. Will you tell the committee who solicited your support of this movement and the circumstances under which you gave your support, if you did ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Daily Worker of April 5, 1941, the name of Robert Rossen appears as a signer of the Call to the Fourth Congress of the League of American Writers. Will you tell the committee who solicited your support of that meeting?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the Hollywood chapter of the League of American Writers conduct a school for writers ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. A mimeographed schedule for the summer session of 1942 reflects the name of Robert Rossen as a lecturer or speaker on dramatic action. Will you tell the committee whether or not you were engaged as a lecturer at that school, and the circumstances under which your services were solicited or acquired ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make a contribution of $50 to the League of American Writers in June 1941, and smaller contributions in 1942 and 1943?
Mr. RO88EN. I decline to answer those questions, sir, on the previously stated grounds. 684 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. In the June 24, 1942, issue, of People's World, on page 5,there is an article dealing with the Writers' Workshop Conference supported by and with the backing of the League of American Writers, at which you are alleged to have been one of the speakers, and you are quoted as having stated thatThe screen can be the great propaganda medium of the war, but today techniques must be in terms of our new kinds of official thinking. Were you a speaker at that conference, and did you make the statement attributed to you, if you recall? W]Ir. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What are the "techniques in terms of our new kinds of official thinking" ? How do you define that ?
Mr. ROSsEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you mean that it would subject you, in your opinion, to criminal prosecution if you would tell this committee the new kind of official thinking referred to in this article ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. COHN. Could Mr. Rossen see that article? Do you mind my interrupting in this way, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Not at all. I hand you the June 24, 1942, issue of the People's World, and I refer you to the marked paragraph at page 5. This is a photostatic copy of the original.
Mr. COHN. Thank you very much (after examining document). 
Mr. Tavenner, that doesn't say "official" thinking. It says "social" thinking. As I read this article, it says: The screen can be the great propaganda medium of the war, Rossen stated, because "it brings to audiences a visual sense of human beings, character, situation," but today "techniques must be in terms of our new kinds of social thinking." 
Mr. TAVENNER. I stand corrected. The word is "social" instead of "official."
Mr. COHN. Do we understand your question to be unrelated'to that article ? I am not quite clear on your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have quoted this article, and, as I understand, he has declined to answer whether or not he made that statement. I followed that by asking what was meant by the term "techniques must be in terms of our news kinds of social thinking."
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer the question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. This article also refers to certain resolutions adopted at the closing session of a 2-day writers' conference held under the auspices of the Writers' Workshop, with the backing of the League of American Writers. One of the resolutions referred to is a resolution supporting Harry Bridges and condemning Attorney General Biddle. Do you recall that?
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). I decline to answer that question on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Another resolution relates to the immediate open- ing of a second front in Europe. Do you recall the circumstances relating to the passage of that resolution ?  INDUSTRY 685 
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds pre- viously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You do know, do you not, that both of those mat- ters were part of the Communist Party line at that particular time, in June 1942?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer the question on the previously stated grounds:
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time affiliated with the League of American Writers ? 
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever affiliated in any manner with the Artists' Front to Win the War ?
Mr. RoSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds pre- viously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to a program of a meeting held in Carnegie Hall on October 16, 1942, the name of Robert Rossen appears as one of the sponsors. Will you tell the committee who solicited your support as a sponsor of the Artists' Front to Win the War, if such support was actually given?
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds it may tend to incriminate and degrade me, thus violating my rights under the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have before me a photostatic copy of a ballot bearing date July 26, 1944, for the election of members of the executive board-.4 e Hollywood. Democratic Committee. Were you a candidate for membership on the executive board of the Hollywood Democratic Committee ?
Mr. RosSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. KEARNEY. Will you tell the committee how, by any stretch of the imagination, being a candidate for membership on a Democratic committee may tend to incriminate you ?
Mr. CoIN. May. we have the list of subversive organizations?
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you mean the Democratic Party is a subversive organization ?
Mr. COHN. We don't know about this committee.
Mr. TAVE.NER. For the information of the committee, this is the committee in Hollywood cited by the Tenney committee as being subversive. The name of it was then changed to the Hollywood Independent Citizens' Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions.
Mr. KEARNEY. I would like a little clarification of that, Mr. Counsel. In other words, then, the committee which has just been named had no affiliation with the Democratic Party? I can't reconcile the thought of any Democratic committee, or branch of the Democratic Party, being a subversive organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. A good many organizations have names which do not adequately and accurately characterize the groups. That is true isn't it? :Mr. ROSSEN. I wouldn't know, really.
Mr. TAVENNER. ,Vell, were you a member of this group ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer on the previously stated grounds. It has been listed as a subversive organization. 686 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Tavenner, we will suspend for 5 minutes. The com- mittee will be in recess for 5 minutes. (Short recess.) 
Mr. WOOD. The subcommittee will be in order. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, may I make a clarifying statement?
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mention was made of the Hollywood Democratic Committee a few minutes ago. That is on page 56 of the Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, and in the paragraph concerning the Hollywood Democratic Committee these words are used: * * * it had no connection with the Democratic Party. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That is correct, and it also shows: When it "faced exposure" as a Communist front, it changed its name in June 1945 to "Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions." 
Mr. KEARNEY. That would be according to custom.
Mr. TAVENNER. It certainly would. The Guide to Subversive Or- ganizations and Publications further shows that the Hollywood Democratic Committee was a Communist front that.grew out of a series of fronts designed to entrap Hollywood's innocents in the motion-picture industry. Organized in 1942 for the announced purpose of reelecting Governor Olson, of California, it had no connection with the Democratic Party. 
Mr. Rossen, did you make a financial contribution to th&campaign of Rubin Borough, candidate for Congress? He is the husband of Madelaine Ruthven.
Mr. ROssEN (after conferring with his counsel). I decline to answer that question on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I read a moment ago the citation from the California committee from which it appeared that upon exposure or threatened exposure of the Hollywood Democratic Committee as a Communist-front organization, the name was changed in June 1945 to "Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions." According to the Worker of December 24, 1944, your name appears as one of the initiating sponsors of this organization, that is, the Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. Will you tell the committee who solicited your sponsorship of the new group and the circumstances under which you gave your support, if you did?
Mr. ROssEN. I decline to answer the question on the previously stated grounds, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever affiliated in any manner with the Jefferson School for Social Science?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily Worker of May 9, 1945, page 8, con- tains a notice that Robert Rossen was to be a guest lecturer at the Jefferson School for Social Science the following evening. Did you lecture at that school the following evening?  687 
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Daily Worker of January 3, 1946, at page 4, contains a news item about the death of Theodore Dreiser. He was referred to as "a member in good standing of the Communist Party." Among those listed as paying tribute to Theodore Dreiser was Robert Rossen. Did you know that Theodore Dreiser was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the occasion to which I refer ?
Mr. RossZN (after conferring with his counsel). I don't recall the occasion, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you personally acquainted with Theodore Dreiser ? 
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you affiliated with the Actors' Laboratory in Hollywood ?
Mr. COHN. Will you define the word "affiliated"?
Mr. TAVENNER. That is a very broad term. It means were you con- nected in any way with the Actors' Laboratory.
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated in any way with the Citizens' Committee to Aid Strikers? 
Mr. ROSSEN (after conferring with his counsel). I decline to an- swer that question, sir, on the same grounds previously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any part in the handling or showing of the film The Turning Point at the instance of the American-Russian Institute? 
Mr. COHN. Will you give us some more identification of The Turn- ing Point, Mr. Tavenner. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I am certain the witness will know more about the film than I would know. The Turning.Point is the name of the film. Are you acquainted with that film ? 
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated or affiliated in any way with the American-Russian Institute?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall an organization known as the Free World Association ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. Excuse me a moment. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Of which Uhlrich Bell was the director.
Mr. COHN. May we look at that list? Is that one of the subversive outfits ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Let him look at the list, please. I have no knowledge of any citation of that organization.
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds. 688
Mr. INDUSTRY It is not an organization that is listed as subversive by any committee or any agency of Government, if that is the matter that is bothering you. TAVENNER. 
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, it is. To the best of my recollection-that was a long time ago-I think I remember meeting Bell at Warner Bros. about 11 years ago. As far as I remember, I don't think I was ever associated with the Free World Association.
Mr. TAVENNER. I just asked if you were acquainted with the association.
Mr. ROSSEN. I remember Uhlrich Bell came to Hollywood 11 or 12 years.ago and had something to do with the organization of it, but I was never very active or knew Bell very well.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly I can refresh your recollection about one matter. In March of 1944, the Free World Association, the Hollywood chapter of it, came out with a full-page advertisement in Variety asserting the 10-point policy of the Free World Association, the first point of which was to the effect that the Free World disavowed both communism and fascism. Does that refresh your recollection ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No; it doesn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Here is an organization opposing both communism and fascism.
Mr. ROSSEN. I am really not very clear on this organization at all except I do remember a long time ago meeting Bell, and I remember some talk in Hollywood about this organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you not recall that you and Mr. John Howard Lawson attempted to organize opposition to the Free World Association, and attempted to bring pressure to discard this point No. 1 to which I referred, which was a disavowal of both communism and fascism?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate or degrade me, thus violating my rights umder both the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an official of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was during 1941 and 1942 ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I am not sure of the dates, Mr. Tavenner. I have an idea it was before that. I remember being elected to the executive board and also being secretary of the Screen Writers' Guild-that is, an elected secretary. I don't remember the exact dates, but if I knew the date of the agreement reached by the producers, that would help me, because I remember being secretary at that time.
Mr. WOOD. The subcommittee will stand at recess until 2:30 this afternoon. (Thereupon a recess was taken until 2:30 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION 
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order. Let the record show that there are present the following members of the committee: Messrs. Walter, Doyle, Kearney, Jackson, Potter, and Wood, a quorum of the full committee. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner.  INDUSTRY 689 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Rossen, at the time of our adjournment, I was asking you about your membership in the Screen Writers' Guild. Will you tell me a little of the relationship between the Screen Writers' Guild and the producers, as to what control if any this Screen Writers' Guild has over the employment by a producer of a member of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. RossEN. Well, I don't know what the rules have been, I really don't know what the rules have been, in the last 3 or 4 years, because my membership has been mostly in other guilds since that time. But I remember when we first wrote the Screen Writers' Guild contract I think there was a provision in it-I am not quite certain of the facts, but I think I am pretty close to them-that 80 percent of the screen writers hired by the studios would have to be members of the Screen Writers' Guild. Now, subsequently, I understand they have negotiated a new contract-this is in the past year or so-in which the percentage might have been changed. But to the best of my recollection it was 80 percent. The only other real control that I can think of-Oh, yes. There was a minimum salary. The minimum salary agreement was $175 a week at that time. In other words, you could not employ a screen writer for less than that. And the guild had the right to arbitrate screen credits. Now, I don't know whether or not that was ever made a part of the agreement or whether or not that was a separate stipulation, but, for instance, if there was any dispute between screen writers over the credits that they were to get on films, the Screen Writers' Guild would set up an arbitration board, which would arbitrate that dispute. I think those are the three major points that I can remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, now, is there not another point also, to this effect: That in the event the board of governors of the Screen Writers' Guild should notify the producers that any individual within the guild is not in good standing, he could not be employed by the producer until that objection was removed?
Mr. ROSSEN. I think that was so, but I think that only had to do with the payment of dues. In other words, the only thing that I can recollect that would put you in bad standing with the Screen Writers' Guild was if you did not pay your dues. And even then, in that case, you would have a right to come under the other 20 percent. In other words, let us assume that they threw you out of the guild. You would still be within the 20 percent of the guild membership that did not belong to the guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if a person were declared not in good standing by the board of governors for any other cause, other than the nonpayment of dues, would not the principle have applied under the clause in the contract which covered the point?
Mr. RoSSEN. I think it would, to the best of my recollection. I am rot really sure. For instance, I think we once had a ruling about advertising, that you were not allowed to advertise in the trade papers. But I cannot recall anybody ever not working or being declared in bad standing, for that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Under the contract that the Screen Writers' Guild had, at the time you were active in the organization, with the producers, the fact that the board of governors had such a control over 81595--51-pt. 3-11 690 INDUSTRY who would be employed would be a very vital matter, would it not, in the event that the board of governors became dominated and controlled by the Communist Party ?
Mr; ROSSEN. Well, I really-it is a long time since "I have seen that contract, and I would have to see it in order to refresh my memory on the points contained within that contract. I think it must be about 11 or 12 years since I have seen the contract, and I never really read it at that time. I do not think anybody did.
Mr. TAVENNER. You may recall a dispute that arose between the Screen Writers' Guild and the agents, that is, the Artists-Managers Guild, which was the guild under which the agents came. I understand that you and Lester Cole, Allen Scott, and Francis Faragoh were among the representatives of the Screen Writers' Guild who met representatives from the agents, at a time when there was a dispute over the amount of commissions that the agents should charge. And it is our information that the Screen Writers' Guild at that time had made demands for downward revision of the commissions by the agents, that is, commissions for handling the work of the writers. Do you recall that?
Mr. ROSSEN. Will you excuse me one moment, please? (Mr. Rossen consults with his counsel.)
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes; I was on the Screen Writers' Guild committee to deal with the agents. But I think there were other people, as I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. There may be others.
Mr. ROSSEN. It seems to me it was a much broader committee than the one you mention, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have the name of one other individual who was on it, I think. Mr. Harry Tugend. 
Mr. RoSSEN. I still seem to recollect more people, because I think this was a pretty important issue for the guild, since it involved money.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was a very live issue, was it not? And is it not true that the threat was made by the Screen Writers' Guild that if the negotiations with the agents were not successful, they would push for the establishment of a guild-sponsored agency; in other words, have their own agency, through their own guild ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't really recall that. -At least I have never heard the threat. It might have been made, but not to the best of my recollection. I don't think I sat in on very many of those meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have no recollection of it?
Mr. ROSSEN. No; I am trying very hard to remember it. I think I can only remember one meeting that I attended. If I am correct, it was held in Phil Berg's or Allen Berg's office, of an evening. That is an agency. I just don't remember. This might have been made on the guild floor. I don't know. I really cannot remember this. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Rossen, you have testified here that you are not now a member of the Communist Party, that you were not a member of the Communist Party when you came into this room, but you would not testify as to whether you were a member yesterday or not. And then you have refused to testify about many other questions that I have asked you regarding testimony and information that the committee has relating to your alleged activities. I am certain you must  691 be acquainted with Frank Tuttle, who was a director in Hollywood. You are, are you not?
Mr. RosSEN. Yes; I am acquainted with him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Frank Tuttle appeared before this committee, and he appeared voluntarily, after his name had been mentioned, just the same as yours had been, as a person who had been a member of the Communist Party, or was a member. I want to read you a part of this testimony. I asked Mr. Tuttle this question: What impelled you to be willing to give to this committee the benefit of your knowledge regarding these individuals or any individuals who were associated with you in the Communist Party? And this is Mr. Tuttle's reply: I believe there is a traditional dislike among Americans for informers, and I am an informer, and I have thought about this constantly. I believe all decent people who share this dislike for informers, if they think about this carefully, will agree with me that at this particular moment it is absolutely vital, in a case like this, with ruthless aggression abroad in the world. The aggressors, I believe, are as ruthless with their own people as they are with those they consider their enemies, and I feel it is absolutely necessary for Americans to be equally ruthless. And it was in response to that feeling and attitude on his part of extreme loyalty that he was willing to frankly tell this committee and aid this committee in every way that he could, based on his experience and his information. Now, I am going to ask you if you haven't the same loyalty as Frank Tuttle, and if you won't cooperate with this committee. If you are not ready to do it today, we will adjourn this hearing and give you time to think about it.
Mr. WOOD. Do you and Mr. Rossen want additional time to confer, 
Mr. Cohn? 
Mr. COHN. We conferred at great length.
Mr. ROSSEN. I will have to say at this time that I respect Mr. Tuttie's opinion. I have thought about this question at great length and very seriously, and I shall have to stand on the stand I have taken.
Mr. POTTER. I did not get that last.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you repeat your whole statement?
Mr. RossEN. I respect Mr. Tuttle's opinion. I have thought about this at great length, and I shall have to stand on the position that I have taken before this committee.
Mr. KEARNEY. You mean whether your position has been true or not?
Mr. ROSSEN. Mr. Kearney, I have stood on my constitutional grounds.
Mr. KEARNEY. I realize that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Rossen, I regret that that is your decision. If the time comes when you change your mind about it, it may be that the committee will hear you. But I want to ask you some additional questions.
Mr. ROSSEN. May I say one word, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. RossEN. If at any time in the future I do change my mind, I will communicate with this committee at that particular time.
Mr. JACKSON. Before you continue, I should like to direct your attention to the statement made by Mr. Edward Dmytryk before this 692 committee, a statement which I think is probably one of the most powerful that I have ever heard on this point since I have been associated with the committee. I would like to read it to you for your information. Mr. Dmytryk testified in part, and I quote: 1 There is a great deal of difference between 1947 and 1951 as far as the Communist Party is concerned, or at least as far as my awareness of what is going on is concerned. In 1947 the cold war had not been gone beyond the freezing point. I wanted to believe that Russia was very sincere in wanting peace, and I didn't feel the Communist Party in this country was any particular menace as far as I knew, and I felt the committee before which I appeared was invading a field they could not properly invade, that is, freedom of speech and freedom of thought; and I also sincerely believed the procedures used by the committee were not completely in keeping with an honest investigation. On those grounds I refused to testify at the time. Since that time a number of very important developments have taken place. In the first place, I had never heard before 1947 anybody say they would refuse to fight for this country in a war against Soviet Russia. I think I was in England when I first saw an article about an Australian party member who said he would not fight against Soviet Russia. Then I saw articles about American party members taking the same position; I believe Paul Robeson was one. Since then other party members in this country have stated they would not fight for their country. I think in a democracy each person takes upon himself the duty to defend his country in time of war. Along with other people, I signed the Stockholm peace petition. I believe in peace, as everybody does. I hoped they were sincere. However, the Korean War made me realize that they were not. I think any intelligent person must realize that the North Koreans would not have attacked the South Koreans unless they had the backing of very strong forces. I can't prove.it, but I believe those forces are Communist China and Communist Russia. This, too, disturbed me tremendously, and made me realize there is a Communist menace and that the Communist Party in this country is a part of that menace. The third thing was the spy trials, the development of the Hiss, Coplon, and Greenglass cases and the Fuchs case in England. To me there is a significant thing about the spy trials. The thing that impressed me was that these people did not get any money, or not much. There are spies who work for their country, and we have respect for them. There are other spies who receive money for their work, and there may be a certain admiration for them, because they risk their necks. These people are doing it for love of the party. This is treason. I think the party that has used them is treasonable also. I don't say all members of the Communist Party are guilty of treason, but I think a party that encourages them to act in this capacity is treasonable. For this reason I am willing to talk today. I read that into the record in order that it may be restated again, because I think, as I say, it is one of the most powerful things that has been said before this committee. I feel that when you leave the witness stand, for better or worse, you will have created an impression in the minds of American people, who are the final judges as to whether you have or have not been a member of the Communist Party. I think those are factors which should enter into your decision as to your course of action.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman?
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Kearney ?
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Rossen, I would like to amplify what my col- league from California has said. I want to call attention to your testimony this morning. And without any prompting on the part of counsel, you entered into a fairly lengthy statement about your loy- alty to this country, -about your dislike for communism and Soviet Russia. What impression do you think you are going to leave not only with the members of this committee but, as has already been 1 Pp. 410-411, hearings printed under this title, pt. 2. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 693 said, with the American people, in your declination to answer practically every other question on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate you, and then make the statement, as you have, to this committee, in words or in substance, "If I change my mind, could I come back to this committee later?" You are either, in my humble opinion, telling the truth now, or you are telling untruths, with the thought in your own mind that maybe later you might come before this committee and tell the truth. I give you that for what it is worth, in order to help you make your own decision here today.
Mr. ROSSEN. Mr. Kearney, I would just like to make one slight correction, if I may. I didn't say "could I come back?" I think the implication there is that I asked the committee for a rehearing. I didn't say that. I said if I changed my mind I would notify the committee.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other words, if you changed your mind insofar as the testimony you have already given here today is concerned ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No, sir, insofar as a change of my mind about claim- ing my constitutional privilege is concerned.
Mr. KEARNEY. Does that not mean that at some future date you might have the thought in your mind that you might want to change your testimony ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No, I may want to waive my privileges at a future time.
Mr. KEARNEY. I thoroughly agree with you on that point. There is no question about that. But what I am trying to do is to assist you, and I think your counsel will say that the members of this committee are not here to persecute you. We are here to help. And we want you, under the statement that you made here this morning, as a loyal American, to do those things that now are for the benefit of your country if you are the loyal American that you claim to be.
Mr. ROSSEN. In my own mind, Mr. Kearney, there is no question of my loyalty to this country or my opposition to any kind of divided loyalty, specifically in relation to the Soviet Union. This is in my own mind. This is an area I suppose that it is very difficult to get into.
Mr. KEARNEY. Is it because, Mr. Rossen, you are fearful, as it has been mentioned here today, of being known as an informer ?
Mr. COHN. May I consult with him for a moment ? 
Mr. KEARNEY. Yes: (Brief consultation between the witness and his counsel.)
Mr. ROSSEN. Mr. Kearney, I don't think it is a matter of my being fearful. At this time I really and truly feel that I want to claim my constitutional privilege, and I think there is a danger of incrimination.
Mr. KEARNEY. I understood you to say this morning that you have just returned from Mexico. 
Mr. ROSSEN. That is right, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know a Mexican labor leader by the name of Vincent Lombardo Toledano, I think it is ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Not to the best of my recollection, sir. 
Mr. KEARNEY. You did not meet him while you were in Mexico?
Mr. ROSSEN. I didn't; no.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you attend any meetings of the Communist Party while you were in Mexico ?
Mr. RossEN. No, I didn't. 694 
Mr. KEARNEY. I will waive further questioning, Mr. Chairman, until counsel concludes. 
Mr. WOOD. Proceed, Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the June 1932 issue of New Masses, you were one of the founders of Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and I believe the first chairman. Is that correct? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate or degrade me or violate my rights under the fifth and first amendments. SMr. TAVENNER. Can you tell the committee about the activities of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization when you were chairman, particularly, to start off with, what disposition was made of the records of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization? Do you know anything about that ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated. Can you excuse me one moment, please? 
Mr. COHN. Would you break your question into two, please, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, I will.
Mr. COHN. Ask him about the record first, if you don't mind.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with the disposition that was made of the records of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization at the time that the committee was holding its hearings regarding Hollywood?
Mr. ROssEN. Not to the best of my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you an officer of the HollywoodMr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question; same grounds.
Mr. WooD. Do you so decline?
Mr. ROSSEN. I do decline. I am sorry.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you engage in a plan of writing a series of radio programs dealing with the atomic bomb as part of the project of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. RossEN. May I confer, please? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. COHN. May we hold off for a minute? (Further consultation of witness with his counsel.)
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any program of cooperation between the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization and the Federation of Scientists, in connection with any project-Mr. RossEN. I declineMr. TAVENNER (continuing). Of the Hollywood Writers' Mobiliza- tion?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previ- ously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any plan worked out between the Writ- ers' Mobilization and any group of citizens of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, either official or unofficial, for the exchange of information or material?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 695 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time send any material of any character in line with the project of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer the question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. COHN. May I ask: Was that a question as to him as an individual?
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked him if he did.
Mr. WooD. And what was the answer ?
Mr. ROSSEN. The answer was: I decline to answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you as an officer of the organization send any material or exchange any material of any character with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. KEARNEY. What date was this?
Mr. TAVENNER. 1944.
Mr. ROSSEN. The answer still stands, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall an occasion when the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization invited an Italian by the name of Gatano Salvameni to speak at a seminar being held at the Hollywood Women's Club?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated. May I have one second please (The witness consults with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Rossen, the committee is informed through the press of that. That Mr. Salvameni had spoken prior to the time he was engaged to speak by the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and during the course of his speech he referred to the fact that Palmero Togliatti was a known Communist and had no policy of his own. He is alleged to have said in the same speech that Stalin anticipated that the more confused the situation in Italy should become, the more the Communist Party would gain the upper hand when the war was over in Italy. In other words, Mr. Salvameni was opposed to communism. And is it not a fact that as a result of that, and I may say also his criticism of the leaders in this country to some extent too, that his appointment to speak was canceled ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you advised by Mr. Lawson to get in touch with a radio commentator for the purpose of having him answer the charges made by the press as to the reasons for the cancellation of this speech ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you advised by John Howard Lawson not to stand for reelection as chairman of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization? SMr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Rossen, in October 1947 the National Lawyers' Guild sponsored a meeting to discuss whether the House Committee 696 INDUSTRY on Un-American Activities was conducting a legislative investigation or operating as a thought control agency. The name of Robert Rossen appears on the program. Do you recall what your part was in that meeting?
Mr. COHN. May we consult for a moment? (The witness consults with his counsel.)
Mr. CoHN. Is the Lawyers' Guild listed as a subversive organiza- tion, or isn't it ?
Mr. TAVENNER. It is with this committee. It has not been so listed with the Attorney General.
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Washington Evening Star of November 3, 1947, the Civil Rights Congress gave a reception the previous day honoring the 19 Hollywood writers, directors, and actors who had been subpenaed before this committee. The tenor of'the meeting was an attack on this committee. I hand you a copy of the Evening Star, a photostatic copy of the November 3, 1947, issue of the Evening Star, and ask you to look at the article entitled "Eisler in Attendance at Reception of Nineteen in Hollywood Inquiry." I will ask you to look at that article and state whether or not you were in attendance at that meeting. You will note your name appears in it.
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the article states: Others of the subpenaed witnesses at the reception were- naming a number, including the name Robert Rossen. Do you decline to answer?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to read to you a statement made by another person in attendance at this meeting. Ben Margolis, one of the 5 lawyers retained by the 19, said there is "a sound legal basis for fighting this committee," and added that "what the Supreme Court does depends to a large extent on the political climate of the country." He predicted that the political climate will be wrong unless the American people unite and the committee is exposed as an enemy of the people. Now, Mr. Margolis was one of the attorneys that represented you when you were subpenaed before?
Mr. ROSSEN. Not specifically, he didn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. But he represented the group as a whole?
Mr. CoHN. May we consult for just a moment .
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. (The witness consults with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. You were one of the 19 subpenaed before the committee, but you were not called as a witness; isn't that true?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, Mr. Margolis has indicated in this article that what the Supreme Court does in the matter would depend upon the political climate. Well, did you take part in helping to establish an artificial political climate to influence the Supreme Court in this country?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't quite understand. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 697 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you understand what I mean by "political climate" ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't understand what you mean when you say did I take part in creating an artificial climate.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well,- you understood the language I read from
Mr. Margolis' statement, when he said that "what the Supreme Court does depends upon the political climate of the country." That meant the political attitude-didn't it ?-and that that political climate would be wrong; that is, wrong from the standpoint of the 19, unless the American people, according to his language, "united, and the committee is exposed as an enemy of the people." Now, did you join in a plan to attempt to create the public impression and feeling that this committee was an enemy of the people, in order to create this artificial climate ?
Mr. COHN. May we confer for a moment ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. ROSSEN. Mr. Tavenner, I really am not responsible for what
Mr. Margolis said, and I am trying my best to recollect what the events were after the previous Washington hearing.
Mr. TAVENNER. But what Mr. Margolis said set the course for what was later done; didn't it ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, to the best of my recollection, I can't remember taking part in changing the political climate, and I don't believe that the Supreme Court is subject to that kind of pressure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you read the statement of Justice Jackson a few days ago about the efforts made by the Communist Party to influence the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States ?
Mr. RossEN. I read the statement, but he was very firm in stating also that it just would play no part.
Mr. TAVENNER. But that is part of the political climate that we are speaking of ?
Mr. ROSSEN. If you are asking me about my position on this present committee, I can tell youMr. TAVENNER. No; I am asking you to go back to the time that 
Mr. Margolis set the chart for the conduct of those interested in behalf of the 19, and at the time you were subpenaed before this committee.
Mr. ROSSEN. I am going to decline to answer that question on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate or degrade me and violate my rights under the fifth and first amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right, now. Mr. Margolis states here that the political climate will be wrong unless the American people unite and the committee is exposed as an enemy of the people. Now, did you do anything yourself to attempt to put such a plan into effect, to make it appear as though this committee were an enemy of the people? Did you participate in any way ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer on the previously stated grounds, sir.
Mr. COHN. Would you let him state his present position to the com- mittee ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Surely. If you have any different feeling or position on the subject, the committee would be glad to hear it.
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, I can only speak in terms of my own experience. today and my reading of what has gone on here and my observation 698 of this committee in relation to the committee in 1947, and I just don't think there is any comparison.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, we would not want you to compare.
Mr. ROSSEN. I just want to say very truthfully and honestly that I know there are differences of opinion that exist here. On the other hand, I must point out at this time that the fairness and courtesy shown to me has been very wonderful, really wonderful, and I appreciate it.
Mr. WooD. How about some reciprocity on that subject?
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you answered the question?
Mr. ROSSEN. I didn't know it was a question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, let me see if I can refresh your memory any about matters which might be construed as using this committee as, say, a whipping dog to accomplish the purposes of the Communist Party. The Daily Worker of November 17, 1947, page 4, contains a news item to the effect that "18 Hollywood writers and directors wrote the House of Representatives requesting that the citation against the 'Hollywood 10' be voted down." Among the signers appears your name. Wasn't that one of the efforts made pursuant to Mr. Margolis' statement, and didn't you join in it?
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Didn't you sign a brief amicus curiae on behalf of John Howard Lawson and others before the Supreme Court of the United States?
Mr. RossEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Didn't you unite in various activities, the purpose of which was to induce the public to believe that this committee was exercising thought control over certain individuals ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information that Albert Maltz appeared before the National Civil Rights Congress, which was in meeting in Madison Square Garden, I believe in 1949, at which time the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council was attempting to organize a rally in conjunction with the Civil Rights Congress. Now, the purpose of this rally was said to be to arouse prominent people who had been mentioned by certain American Legion publication lists as Communist suspects, and certain people whose names had appeared in connection with the Judith Coplon trial. And it was the purpose that all these people whose names have been mentioned should give full statements, and that those statements should be in the way of advertisements inserted in the New York Times, in the form of an open letter to President Truman, and that the letter should demand the approval of Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and that the organization of a citizens' committee should be established to investigate the FBI. And according to our information it was requested that the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council in Hollywood should furnish certain names to be used in connection with that project. These names were forwarded, and on this list of names forwarded was said to be your name. Do you recall about that?  INDUSTRY 699 
Mr. ROSSEN. What is the date of that, sir ?
Mr. TAVENNER. The date is either in 1948 or 1949..
Mr. ROSSEN. To the best of my recollection, I don't recall this meeting, and I don't recall anybody ever asking me.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were never consulted about the use of your name for that purpose? 
Mr. ROSSEN. Not to the best of my knowledge. That is why I would like to know the date, if I may, the exact date; because I can then recall in relation to the pictures I was making.
Mr. TAVENNER. I cahnot specify it any more definitely than I have.
Mr. ROSSEN. But, to the best of my knowledge, I just don't recall it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were never an employee of OWI; were you ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Not that I can recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were not? 
Mr. ROSSEN. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been employed by any other Government agency?
Mr. ROSSEN. Not to the best of my knowledge. (Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to apply for a passport in 1950?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, in February of 1950, when I went down to Mexico to make The Brave Bulls, in order to get a working permit, I had to get a passport.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you apply for a passport to Europe at any time ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No; I used the same passport, sir, that I used going to Mexico. It is still in existence.
Mr. TAVENNER. What countries did you visit in Europe?
Mr. ROSSEN. I visited France, Italy, Switzerland, and then I went back to France. I got the boat back at Cherbourg.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of your travel?
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, it was both a combination business and pleasure trip. I took my wife and my three children, and we drove through France, Italy, Switzerland, back again, and then I was interested, as I was subsequently, in flying out and talking about motion-picture production in these countries. Primarily, it was a pleasure trip. I Lad just completed The Brave Bulls.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you left New York in 1936 and went to Hollywood?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that, sir, on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate or degrade me and violate my rights under the first and fifth amendments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee whether you have severed your affiliation with the Communist Party ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, if I recollect, this morning Mr. Rossen testified under oath that he was not at present a member of the Communist Party. 700 INDUSTRY Now you decline to answer ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No, sir. I testified under oath that I was not a mem- ber of the Communist Party when I went into this hearing room, which was the question that Mr. Tavenner asked me. And I declined to answer all other questions that he asked me in relation to the Communist Party as to past membership, et cetera.
Mr. KEARNEY. Are you a member of the Communist Party at present?
Mr. ROSSEN. Right now? SMr. IiEARNEY. Yes. A few hours after you entered the room.
Mr. ROSSEN. No; I am not.
Mr. KEARNEY. When did you leave the party ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you a member of the party when you entered the room ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. No I was not.
Mr. KEARNEY. Were you a member of the party yesterday ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I refuse to answer that question, sir,. on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate or degrade me.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Rossen, do you know John Garfield ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes; I know John Garfield.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know whether Mr. Garfield is a member of the Communist Party or not?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. KEARNEY. Now, if I told you that John Garfield under oath here testified that he was not a member of the Communist Party and never had been, would that change your answer ?
Mr. ROSSEN. May I confer, please ? (The witness confers with his counsel.) I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. If I remember John Garfield's testimony correctly, he said he would not know a Communist if he fell over one. Have yod ever contributed any money to the Communist Party?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. KEARNEY. Are you acquainted with John Howard Lawson?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know where Mr. Lawson is at present?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know whether he is in jail or out of jail?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't know.
Mr. KEARNEY. He may be in jail for all you know?
Mr. ROSSEN. I really don't. 
Mr. KEARNEY. Is it not true that John Howard Lawson was the chief functionary in the Communist Party in Hollywood
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you ever attend any meetings with John How- ard Lawson of the Communist Party 
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.  INDUSTRY 701 
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you ever confer with John Howard Lawson about communism or the Communist Party?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. KEARNEY. You mentioned something a little while ago in response to a question propounded by counsel that you had a change of thinking concerning the operation of this committee now. Is that true?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did that change of thinking concerning the actions of this committee today coincide with the time element in your answer this morning that you were not a member of the Communist Party at present?
Mr. RoSSEN. I really don't quite understand the question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Will the stenographer read the question, please? (The question referred to was read by the shorthand reporter.)
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer the question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. You understand what I mean ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I am not too clear on it.
Mr. KEARNEY. Well, in other words, let me put it this way. You said, in answer to my question, that you are not now a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. ROSSEN. I said I am not a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. At present.
Mr. ROSSEN. As of today.
Mr. KEARNEY. As of now.
Mr. ROSSEN. Now.
Mr. KEARNEY. But as to whether you were yesterday or some time ago last month, you declined to answer on the grounds that it might incriminate you.
Mr. RoSSEN. That is correct, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Counsel brought out in his questioning that you had some objections to the operation of this committee in the past. Is that correct ? But as of now, today, your thoughts concerning the operation of this committee have changed. In other words, as you stated, as I remember, the committee was fair and tolerant and square to you as the witness here on the stand.
Mr.'RossEN. That is right, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Now, what I am getting at is: Did that change of thought on your part coincide with a change of thought insofar as your membership in the Communist Party is concerned? Was it as quick as all that?
Mr. COHN. Would you give us a minute? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. ROSSEN. The answer is, General Kearney, that my opinion about this committee, I think, is pretty much the answer I gave last time, which is based on my observations today in terms of our relationship here today and is based on my own observations through what I have read in the press.
Mr. KEARNEY. Well, when did your thoughts concerning the operation of this committee change, let us say, for the better?
Mr. ROSSEN. I would say within the last few months. 
Mr. KEARNEY. It did not change, in other words, since you have entered the room ? 702 INDUSTRY 
Mr. ROSSEN. No; not based on my own personal observations.
Mr. KEARNEY. DO you know a motion-picture actress by the name of Constance Collier ?
Mr. ROSSEN. You mean do I know her personally? No; not to the best of my knowledge.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know whether she is a member of the Communist Party or not?
Mr. RoSSEN. I really don't know anything about her.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know Alvah Bessie? 'Mr. ROSSEN. I refuse to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. As to whether you even know him or not?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is right, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know Karen Morley?
Mr. ROSSEN. I refuse to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you see Karen Morley while you were in Mexico ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know whether she is in Mexico or not?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. If she was not, would you so state?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that.
Mr. KEARNEY. Is that a tough one? 
Mr. ROssEN. Very tough.
Mr. KEARNEY. Now, again, Mr. Rossen, and I do not want to go into a long cross-examination, because I think that counsel has covered the ground very thoroughly, but again I want to bring to your attention: How can you expect me, as an individual member of this committee, in view of your protestations of loyalty to this country and your abhorrence of all that is communistic, to believe that statement, in view of the answers that you have given to counsel here today?
Mr. RossEN. I realize, sir, that you formed certain conclusions based upon what I have said.
Mr. KEARNEY. Would you not do the same if you were up here listening to your testimony?
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, it depends upon whether I were me. I think it is rather unfortunate that you reached that conclusion. I can do nothing else, sir, but to take whatever privilege I have.
Mr. KEANEY. I realize that. You are entitled to it on the grounds that you have stated.
Mr. RosSEN. And also to reiterate as strongly as I can my loyalty to this country, my willingness to bear arms, my opposition to the Soviet Union, and my opposition to the American Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. Are you willing to cooperate with this committee in sifting out subversive activities in this country as a loyal American ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Can I just take 1 minute? (The witness consults with his counsel.) -.
Mr. RossEN. I feel that I have cooperated with this committee and answered every question I can to the best of my. ability within my rights. r. KEARNEY. You mean that you have answered every question not to the best of your ability, but within your rights. , . i;
Mr. ROSSEN. Within my rights, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other words, what I am getting at, sir, you have not answered e-vv question to the best of your ability and honestly, have you? ., i,-  INDUSTRY 703 
Mr. RossEN. I have answered every question within my rights, asserting my rights as honorably as I can.
Mr. KEARNEY. We will leave your answer as it is. We will let it stand that way. In other words, you have answered every question propounded to you here today according to your rights as a witness before this committee?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. And that is regardless of any thoughts on your part to assist this committee in running down any subversive activities in this country of ours.
Mr. RoSSEN. I will have to let my answer stand, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. In other words, you refuse to cooperate.
Mr. RossEN. I don't put it that way, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. That is all.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle? 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Rossen, I did not have the benefit of your witnessing this morning, because I am a member of the Armed Services Committee, and I was necessarily at that meeting instead of here. We Members of Congress find we cannot be two places at once, even though we would like to. But I gather from the discussions in the afternoon session that you testified this morning, and then I heard you this afternoon again state, that you were not a member of the Communist Party when you came into the room, and you are not now. Then General Kearney asked you whether or not you were a member yesterday, and you declined to answer on the grounds that it might incriminate you. Inferentially at least, that, to me, as one man to another, infers that you were a member yesterday. Maybe that is an incorrect inference, but I just want to say to you that I cannot see the difference between your telling us that you are not a member today and your refusing to tell us that you were not a member yesterday. What is the difference ? Why could it incriminate today and not yesterday ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I have been advised by counsel that this is a legal ques- tion. He has advised me of my rights here as a witness today, and I have availed myself of his advice, and have had to-or rather, I have stood upon these rights here as a witness.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I want to say that, of course, I am a lawyer, when I practice, and I expect my clients to follow my advice, because they pay for it.
Mr. WOOD. Would you yield at that point for an observation which I would like to make? I hope you understand, Mr. Witness, that in the event you were not a member of the Communist Party yesterday, your testimony to the effect that an answer to the question would incriminate you is not a truthful statement. So it can only leave the impartial mind under one honest conclusion, either that your statement that an answer to the question would incriminate you is not true, or you were a member of the party yesterday. That is the only inference that an honest mind can arrive at. One or the other of those is an accurate statement. So I hope you will not argue the question before me, as one member of this committee, that you want to leave the impression here that you were not a member yesterday and at the same time cloak yourself behind the constitutional privilege of immunity from answering the question. Because it just is not an honest answer. 
Mr. RoSSEN. Mr. Wood, I have to rely upon the advice of my. counsel. 704 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WooD. Your counsel has a perfect right to give you advice as to what your legal rights are, but your counsel does not have any right to advise you as to what to say, and I am sure he is not doing that. Because that is a matter that is entirely your responsibility.
Mr. DOYLE. I was just going to ask the young man this question. In all these answers, when you have answered that you were refusing to answer on the grounds that it might incriminate you, were those answers your answers or your counsel's answers ?
Mr. ROSSEN. They were my answers.
Mr. DOYLE. Your own?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Regardless of the advice of your counsel?
Mr. ROSSEN. I have turned to him for advice, but the responsibility of the answer is mine.
Mr. DOYLE. How old are you?
Mr. ROSSEN. Forty-three, sir.
Mr. DO-uE. You said you had some children.
Mr. ROSSEN. Three.
Mr. DOYLE. How old are they ?
Mrs. ROSSEN. Fourteen, twelve, and five.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you want them to become members of the Commu- nist Party when they are old enough ?
Mr. RossEN. No; I do not.
Mr. DOYLE. You do not?
Mr. ROSSEN. Because I don't believe in it.
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, my primary reason for not believing in it is that I think basically it can only lead to one thing, or it has led to one thing in one country, and it probably, given its outlet, will lead to another thing in this country, and that is dictatorship. I am opposed to dictatorship. I am opposed to it on any level. I am opposed to it for a great many reasons. It opposes freedom of religion, freedom of speech, and it basically is against the dignity of the human individual. And I am very definitely and very positively opposed to that concept of living. I believe in the democratic way of life.
Mr. WOOD. Would the gentleman yield for one short question? Would you mind telling the committee when you arrived at that conclusion ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Mr. Chairman, I shall have to decline to answer that question, because I think it leads into the other.
Mr. WOOD. Well, let me ask it this way: Had you arrived at that conclusion before you came into this hearing room today ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes; I had, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Rossen, in asking this question, I am not asking you now to neglect to follow your counsel's advice. Of course, having sat on this committee now for several months, I am beginning to realize that maybe some lawyers that may appear before this committee, without reference to your counsel, because I have never met the gentleman before-no, I will withdraw that, because I do not want to criticize my own profession, although we no doubt deserve criticism.
Mr. COHN. We have been criticized occasionally.
Mr. WOOD. Will the gentleman continue that statement to the effect that at least some of them are sympathetic ?
Mr. DOYLE. But I become convinced, Mr. Rossen, that at least some of the counsel that appear before us not trying to find COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 705 ways and means under the law by which their clients can cooperate with the committee. I have become convinced that some lawyers who have appeared before us are trying to find ways and means by which their clients may not cooperate with this committee, if you understand. In saying that, I am not referring to your counsel, because I do not know the gentleman. 
Mr. TAVENNER. For the record, this is the first time this counsel has appeared before this committee.
Mr. DOYLE. You just made a glorious statement, there, about your opposition to dictatorship. As I understand the speech you just made there in answer to questioning, it was in response to a question as to whether you know what the Communist Party in America stands for, among other things. Is that correct ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't think that is quite the question, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. I asked you if you wanted your children to become Communists when they were old enough, and you said "No," and I asked why, and you gave those five or six points. Then our distinguished chairman asked when you came to that conclusion, and you claimed your privilege under the fifth amendment. Now, how in the world could it possibly jeopardize you or involve you in some criminal lia- bility or conspiracy for you to tell us how long ago it was that you came to the conclusion which you have just now announced for the benefit of the listeners and the press ? How could that embarrass you? You have told us frankly, now, what you believe in, or what you have discontinued believing, shall I say. Now, can you not tell us how long you have held that conception ? Would it not be encouraging to this committee afd to the American people if you came clean enough to tell us frankly that it was a month ago, or a day ago, or a year ago? I think you have some children involved in this, Mr. Rossen, your own children, if they are important, and I know they are.
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't think I can state any specific date, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Approximately, sir?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't think so, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. Approximately?
Mr. ROSSEN. All I can say is that within my own mind this convic- tion has been growing for quite a while.
Mr. DoYLE. I was interested in your mention of your own observations in the press. A few moments ago you stated that from your own observations in the press you had come to the conclusion that this committee was functioning differently than the committee had, I think you stated, in 1947, to be exact.
Mr. RossEN. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. You also stated in answer to General Kearney that you had been treated squarely and tolerantly, that you had really been treated wonderfully, and you appreciated it. I understood that, did I not?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. That is your testimony. In view of that testimony, I want to ask you if you have ever read the law under which this committee is functioning.
Mr. ROSSEN. No, not in the sense-I have a general idea, but I do not have any legal understanding of it. 81595-51-pt. 3-12 706 INDUSTRY 
Mr. DoYLE. Well, I take it that your statement about the Communist Party believing the things that you stated it believed, and therefore you did not want your children to grow up to believe that and join that party, would mean that you feel that that sort of political philosophy or conspiratorial philosophy was subversive or is subversive toward our form of Government. Is that true? You feel that that tends to destroy our form of Government, a dictatorial political philosophy such as you have mentioned ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, I do.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, you have answered "Yes." I will state, without reading the whole thing, that in the law under which we are assigned to perform our duty, that which it is our duty to give life to, we are assigned to this sort of a hearing today in order to investigate the dissemination within the United States of anything that is subversive or un-American. That is part of our job. And to that extent the whole American people have given us that job, because we are a congressional committee. And our definite understanding is to investigate subversive and un-American conduct within our country. That is the law. You expect us to uphold the law, do you not?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. And I presume you came into the room determined to help us uphold the law, did you not ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, sir, to the best of my ability and within my constitutional rights.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you believe there is a world conspiracy or a conspiracy in the United States amongst any people? Now, I am not asking you whether they are Communists or not, and I want you to note that. Do you believe there is a conspiracy among any people in the United States to overthrow our form of Government ? By our form, I refer to the United States Constitution.
Mr. ROSSEN. As of today ?
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. 
Mr. ROSSEN. I think there are people who would like to overthrow our Government.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you think they are in any large number?
Mr. ROSsEN. I would not know.
Mr. DOYLE. And when I use the term "overthrow," I am referring to, if need be, a forceful overthrow, or the use of force somewhere or other if necessary, if it develops to be necessary. Would you feel there are some people, and I am not asking you, again, whether they are Communists or not at this time, who would go to that extent?
Mr. ROSsEN. On personal knowledge, as of today, I would not know that, sir. I could just infer from what I have read and from the testimony that has been given here.
Mr. DOYLE. What elements entered into your consideration in order to make you withdraw from the Communist Party as of the time you walked into the room?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds that it tends to incriminate and degrade me, violates my rights-r. DOYLE. I think you have already told me once, because you said you did not want your children to grow up to be Communists.
Mr. ROSSEN. I did not state that I had ever been a member of the Communist Party.  INDUSTRY 707 
Mr. DOYLE. Can you not help the committee, to the extent that you would help us know the reasoning by which you came to the conclusion that you had when you put yourself in a position where you were not a Communist when you went into the room today, no matter when you were one,' if ever? Now, in asking that question, I am not assuming the technical grounds that you are standing on, that maybe you were never a Communist.
Mr. ROSSEN. I think I have answered that question, sir, when I said that it took a long time to make up my mind.
Mr. DOYE. Then you have been considering for a long time?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. You have been considering for a long time the actions you have taken.
Mr. ROSSEN. Not the actions; the belief I have.
Mr. DOYLE. The what?
Mr. ROSSEN. The belief that I have. I didn't state anything about action, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. How many years ago did you begin to be attracted to any or all of the theories of the Communist Party? How old were you? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you do it as a result of reading, or of listening, or both?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the previously stated grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. IS there not any premise upon which you feel that you could honestly, frankly, as one American to a committee of the American Congress, help us by enabling us to understand the processes which you went through, in order that we might better protect the American people from the thing you have withdrawn from? Is there not any basis upon which you can do that?
Mr. ROSsEN. I would like to get a correction in. First, I didn't state that I have withdrawn from anything. Secondly, I think that my present position is the only position-the position that I have taken, I think, makes my stand clear.
Mr. DOYLE. Then you want me, as one American, to take the posi- tion mentally, as I go out of this room today, as a member of this committee, that your desire is to cooperate, when now you tell us that you have not even stated that you have withdrawn from the Communist Party? That is just what you stated, was it not?
Mr. ROSSEN. My position, I think, Mr. Moulder, has been made very clear today-Mr. WOOD. This is Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. Yes. Mr. Moulder is not here.
Mr. RoSSEN. I am awfully sorry.
Mr. DOYLE. You owe him an apology, not me.
Mr. ROSSEN. Mr. Doyle, I think I have made my position clear here today. I am very sorry, I regret very much, that you draw these inferences, and I can only repeat again that I feel within me complete loyalty to this country, and I shall have to rely upon whatever con- stitutional rights I have in terms of the questions you have asked me.
Mr. DOYLE. Supposing I told you-and I believe it is a fact-that 708 INDUSTRY every known Communist, and, of course, we know many of them-in other words, you realize that when witnesses come before this committee, generally speaking, we know more about them than they think we know. You realize that, of course?
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, I wouldn't know. 
Mr. DOYLE. You assume that. You have a right to assume it. Suppose I told you, therefore, that almost always when we ask a known Communist to come before this committee, whether or not he has participated in any Communist Party activities or whether or not he is a member or whether or not he attended meetings of the Commuist Party, and so forth, unless he is a man who has cleaned his linens and come in here ready to defend his country and help his country against subversive misconduct without bearing arms, such as we are asking you to do now, sir, for to meet issues with patriotism in peace is just as necessary as to act with patriotism in war. Suppose I told you, then, that almost a hundred percent of the men that we already know are Communists, when we ask them a question, when we ask them if they have attended such and such a meeting-we already know what the fact is? You realize that? They answer exactly as you have, sir. They hide behind-no, I will not say "hide behind," but this is their constitutional privilege, to claim the first and the fifth amendments, and they do so. Suppose I told you that that is literally a fact, that the known Communists answer just like you have answered, when it comes to the border line of any Communist activities. In other words, when the men that we know would use force of one kind or another to change our form of Government answer these questions, they answer just like you have. Now, I do not state that to argue with you. I am just stating it as a fact, and I think when you go out of this room you ought to realize that that is the class you have put yourself in, in my judgment. I do not think you want to be there with those children grown up, myself. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. To go back to the period of time you spent in New York, Mr. Rossen, in what plays did you participate, if you will go over them again for me. 
Mr. ROSSEN. It is hard to remember, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. What was your first play in New York? 
Mr. ROSSEN. Well. the first play that I directed-I had just gotten out of college-if I remember correctly, was a play called The Tree. It was written by Richard Maibaum, and produced I think in the Sixty-first Street Theater.
Mr. JACKSON. And directed by whom?
Mr. ROSSEN. By myself. 
Mr. JACKSON. When was that?
Mr. ROSSEN. I would approximate the date at about 1931.
Mr. JACKSON. And the next stage production ?
Mr. RossEN. Well, again a series of what is known as theater stock engagements. I directed a season at the Maverick Woodstock Players, of Woodstock, N. Y. And I directed plays there which were mostly revivals, such as Kenny Nicholson's The Barkers and plays of that sort.  INDUSTRY 709 
Mr. JACKSON. Under what group? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I really don't remember. All I know is that under whoever's auspices it was, I remember not getting paid.
Mr. JACKSON. That is a very important consideration. And what followed on that ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Then I wrote a play-I sound like a songwriter-I wrote a play called The Body Beautiful, which was produced, as I think I mentioned earlier, I think in the fall of 1935. It only lasted about 7 days, if it lasted that long, I don't really remember.
Mr. JACKSON. Who was the star ?
Mr. ROSSEN. A girl called Polly Walters.
Mr. JACKSON. You directed the show ?
Mr. ROssEN. No. I started writing. I wrote the play.
Mr. JACKSON. You wrote it? 
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes. And after 2 weeks I directed it. There was a director called Bill Shore who preceded me.
Mr. JACKSON. I would like to say that the use of these names does not necessarily connote any political affiliation. Did you know Sidney Kingsley in New York?
Mr. ROSSEN. Sure, I knew him a great many years ago, but not very well. I mean, as a matter of fact, when I was in New York, he was a pretty successful playwright, and to know him was to be-you know. It was kind of a rare occasion.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you know Clifford Odets ?
Mr. ROSSEN. About on the same level, I would say, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you know Paul Robeson ?
Mr. ROSSEN. At the time I was in New York?
Mr. JACKSON. At the time you were in New York.
Mr. ROSSEN. No, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. Did you subsequently know Paul Robeson?
Mr. ROSSEN. I will have to decline to answer that question.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you meet John Garfield during the period of time you were in New York ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes; I did.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you at all close to Garfield ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No, not very, sir; which reminds me of another play. An interim period that I forgot about. This is how I think I met Garfield. The same writer who wrote The Tree wrote a play-I am trying to remember the name of it-which Garfield wanted to play in. I directed the play. I will try to remember the name if I can. And I think, if memory serves me correctly, that was my first meeting with Garfield.
Mr. JACKSON. Who finally played the role?
Mr. ROSSEN. Allen Butts.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you know Mady Christians during the time you were in New York?
Mr. ROSSEN. Not to the best of my knowledge, sir;
Mr. JACKSON. Would you mind stating why you deem it unwise to acknowledge whether or not you subsequently met Paul Robeson?
Mr. RosSEN. Well, Robeson has been named, sir, in various capacities, either in these hearings or previous hearings, and I feel that this would tend to incriminate or degrade me.
Mr. JACKSON. I might say that several of the others I have named have also been named in the same connection. 710 INDUSTRY 
Mr. RoSENs. I wouldn't know, really. The name Robeson I know rings a bell. I really wouldn't know about the others.
Mr. WooD. Would you yield for just one question at that point?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Are you not leaving John Garfield under somewhat of a similar accusation when you declined a while ago to state whether or not he was or had ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. ROSSEN. I do not mean to leave that impression, sir, really.
Mr. WooD. Then why did you state that it might tend to incriminate you to answer a question as to whether or not you knew of his membership in the Communist Party?
Mr. ossEN. Well, more or less there has been talk about Garfield's connection with the Communist Party. For instance, I have read in the papers that there is a possible perjury charge against Garfield. I do not want to leave any implication against Garfield at all, because my relationship with him has been more or less on a professional level.
Mr. WooD. You were asked a simple question as to whether or not, to your knowledge, he was or had ever been a member of the Communist Party, which you declined to answer on the ground that, according to your claim, it jeopardized your rights under the fifth and first amendments of the Constitution.
Mr. RossEN. Can I confer a moment, -please? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. ROSSEN. Can I reanswer that other question ?
Mr. WOOD. I will ask it of you again now. Do you know whether or not John Garfield is at the present time or has ever been a member of or affiliated with the Communist Party?
Mr. ROSSEN. 1 o the best of my knowledge, I do not know anything about it.
Mr. JACKSON. On the question of Roberts Productions and Enterprise Productions, are those two separate producing units ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I will try to explain it, sir, very simply. Enterprise was really a releasing organization that had set up a group of independent producers within it, the Roberts Production making a contract with Enterprise Productions to release that and other pictures.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know any other producing groups affiliated with this particular set-up ?
Mr. RosSEN. Enterprise?
Mr. JACKSON. Yes, Enterprise.
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, to the best of my knowledge, I remember Ginger Rogers had a producing group there. I think Andre de Toth and Veronica Lake had a producing group there. I don't remember any more. Enterprise did go out of business. They also, incidentally, made their own pictures.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you in any way connected with film, He Ran All the Way?
Mr. ROSSEN. Not in any way whatsoever, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. On the operations in Mexico, I think you have said that you had never met Vincente Lombardo Toledano.
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you met Diego Rivera?
Mr. RossEN. Not to the best of my knowledge. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 711 
Mr. JACKSON. With what department or agency of the Mexican Government do you negotiate to make necessary arrangements for your operations in Mexico?
Mr. ROSSEN. You don't negotiate with the Government, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. With whom do you negotiate ? 
Mr. ROSSEN. You negotiate with the studios, Churubusco Studios, C-h-u-r-u-b-u-s-c-o.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know the head of that studio?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes; I know the operating head, a man called Dick Tompkins, who represents RKO. RKO has a 49 percent interest in that studio. Then there was a general manager called Jose Noriega.
Mr. JACKSON. Did I understand you to say that you at present have your own company?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Who was associated with you in the company ?
Mr. ROSSEN. YOU mean in terms of-Mr. JACKSON. In terms of artists or directors.
Mr. ROSSEN. No one at the present time.
Mr. JACKSON. You simply have the framework of the company ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Just the framework. And it's quiescent, actually. 
Mr. JACKSON. In addition to The Brave Bulls, which incidentally y, was a very good pictureMr. ROSSEN. Thank you, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON (continuing). Have you made any other pictures in Mexico, or are any contemplated at the present time ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes. I haven't made any others, but I contemplate a picture. I am in the process of buying a book. As a matter of fact, I talked to the star who agreed to play it. It is Dolores Del Rio. And I contemplate making that picture in Mexico. I also incidentally, if one may add, will say that there is another group one has to talk about, and this may relate to the question about the Government. The Mexican motion-picture industry has a bank. The Government puts up a certain amount of money, which the bank loans to motionpicture producers. And I did talk to a man. I forgot his name. But I talked to the bank in terms of a loan on the picture, because the picture that I intend to make, I intend to make in two versions, one Spanish and one English. 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you now, or have you ever, subscribed to the Daily People's World ?
Mr. RosSEN. I shall have to refuse to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated. 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you now or have you ever subscribed to the Daily Worker ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I refuse to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds. 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you now or have you ever subscribed to the New Masses? 
Mr. ROSSEN. I refuse to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds. (The witness confers with his counsel.) 
Mr. RossEN. I will let my answer stand, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you now or have you ever subscribed to the Sun- day Compass? 712 INDUSTRY 
Mr. ROSSEN. To the best of my knowledge, I have not.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you now or have you ever subscribed to the Chicago Tribune
Mr. ROSSEN. No. I really had to think, for that.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you acknowledge the existence of or do you feel that there is an international Communist movement?
Mr. ROssEN. At the present time I do, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you feel that there is an American Communist movement affiliated with the international Communist movement? .Mr. RoSSEN. Well, if I were to be asked to judge it at the present time, I would have to say on the basis of the evidence that I would say that they do follow the Soviet line.
Mr. JACKSON. There is such an organization?
Mr. ROSSEN. Based on what I read, and everything else.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, based on those same criteria, would you say that there is or there has been in the past a Communist movement in Hollywood or within the moving-picture industry?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever known of your own knowledge a mem- ber of the Communist Party ? 
Mr. RossEN. I shall have to decline to answer that question. I mean, I decline to answer it. 
Mr. JACKSON. Do you know Paul Robeson?
Mr. ROSSEN. I decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Are you presently, if you do not mind answering, registered as a voter?
Mr. ROSSEN. I do not think so. I think I was out of the country.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever been registered as a voter ?
Mr. RosSEN. Yes, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. You say you are not now a member of the Communist Party. Would you object to telling us how you were registered when you were registered ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, to the best of my recollection, I usually register Democratic.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever resigned from or publicly repudiated in any way your affiliations, real or alleged, with any of the organizations which have been named here and which are known as Communistfront organizations ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. ROSSEN. Mr. Jackson, after conferring with my attorney, he asked me whether or not I would ask you if you would break that question. 
Mr. JACKSON. You mean into specific organizations ? 
Mr. COHN. No, no. Into time.
Mr. JACKSON. I mean at any time in the past. There has been mention today of some 15 or 16 organizations which have been cited by this committee or by other groups of like nature as Communistfront organizations. Have you ever repudiated these organizations with which you have been associated in the past in any way?
Mr. RossFN. Well, in relation to the past, I shall have to decline, sir. In relation to today, I think I have made my position very clear in terms of the Communist Party, and I would like to make it clearer, in terms of any other organizations which might be related to the Communist Party.  INDUSTRY 713 
Mr. JACKSON. That is, you are not today a member of any organ- ization, to the best of your knowledge, which has been cited by this committee or by any other like committee as a Communist-front organization ?
Mr. ROSSEN. To the best of my knowledge, that is true.
Mr. JACKSON. But you decline to state whether or not you have been a member of such organization in the past ?
Mr. ROSSEN. That is correct, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. I think this question has also been asked, but I am not certain of the answer. Do you consider that the Communist movement internationally is in the nature of being a conspiracy designed to overthrow other constitutional forms of government?
Mr. ROSSEN. Are you asking me in terms of other Communist movements in other countries ?
Mr. JACKSON. Of course, I am speaking more to the point that there is one international Communist conspiracy, in my opinion; my question is whether or not you believe that to be the case, and the Communist Party is a conspiracy dedicated to the overthrow of other constitutional forms of government.
Mr. ROSSEN. In my opinion, I would have to agree to the extent that unquestionably the Communist Party of either this country or any other country would be dedicated to imposing upon the other country or this country a Soviet form of government, which in and of itself would mean a new kind of constitution, a new kind of system of government. 
Mr. JACKSON. In other words, you do believe that the international Communist movement is dedicated to the overthrow of other constitutional forms?
Mr. RossEN. Based on my own observations, I would say so, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. What is your understanding of the loyalty obliga- tions of a member of the Communist Party? That question is in general, without reference to your membership or nonmembership.
Mr. ROSSEN. Well, that is really a very difficultMr. JACKSON. Let me phrase it more simply. Do you believe a member of the Communist Party owes his allegiance to the Soviet Union, or to the country of which he is a citizen or in which he is resident?
Mr. ROSSEN. If you ask me as to his owing it, I think he can only owe it to one country, and that is the United States, on the question of owing. Whether or not that is the case, is another question. I have been reading something about it. May I read something? I can just paraphrase it.
Mr. JACKSON. Perhaps later on. I do not want to unduly hold up Mr. Potter's questions. Do you believe that a member of the Communist Party can be loyal to the United States and at the same time carry out his obligations to communism and to the Soviet Union ?
Mr. COHN. May we consult for a moment? (The witness consults with his counsel.)
Mr. ROSSEN. This has been said so well, Mr. Jackson. It is a very short statement. May I read it, please? It sort of sums up what I feel about it. This is a letter from John Foster Dulles to Representative Nixon, on a question I think on the McCarran Act. 1 Now Senator Richard M. Nixon. 714 INDUSTRY 
Mr. COHN. On the question of what Congress should do about communism.
Mr. WOOD. The question is what your belief is.
Mr. ROSSEN. I believe in this statement sir. The statement reads: I doubt the efficiency of the two bills which were sent, largely because of the fact that Communist Party is such a nebulous thing. In part it is a clearly subversive thing, subject to what Stalin calls the iron discipline of the party, with respect to policies which are largely formulated by the Soviet Communist Party in Moscow. On the other hand, the Communist Party in some countries, notably France, Italy, and to a lesser extent the United States, draws into its ranks many who in no sense seek the revolutionary overthrow of our institutions as does the hard core of the Communist Party, but who look to the Communist Party as a method of reform which will ,cure evils. Those who accept the iron discipline of the party are in a very real sense the agents of foreign principals and hold doctrines which partake of treason. On the other hand, many others are finding in the Communist Party an outlet for a sense of grievance. But they are not in reality either agents of the foreign principal, nor do they entertain treasonable plans. The difficulty is how to distinguish one from the other. That is the difficulty which I do not see clearly how to solve. 
Mr. JACKSON. Then in essence, a Marxist, a philosophical Marxist, according to that definition, is an agent of the Soviet Union and of international communism. Is that it ? The hard-core Communist?
Mr. ROSSEN. The hard-core Communist is one who accepts the iron discipline of the party.
Mr. JACKSON. In that event he would, of necessity, and by definition, be a traitor.
Mr. ROSSEN. According to that definition, he must be. Because obviously he does not put this country first.
Mr. JACKSON. Would you accept that definition ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I accept this definition here.
Mr. JACKSON. Then one who refuses for any reason to disclose members of the Communist Party, depending upon his own judgment to distinguish between hard-core Communists and simple dupes, is in effect and conceivably covering traitors?
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't think that is my position, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. I don't state that as your position, but I state it as a matter of fact, that that is quite likely to be the upshot of refusal to name those who are known to be members of the Communist Party. Now, back to your statement with respect to the committee, your statement with respect to former committees and this one: It is one of the chief plaints of the Communists and fellow travelers, and so forth, that this committee is given to badgering witnesses and disregarding their rights. Have you sensed anything in this hearing today that would indicate that you have been badgered in any way, or that your constitutional rights have not been observed to the utmost ?
Mr. ROSSEN. No; I have not. - As a matter of fact, I reiterate the previous statement I made. I have not felt that in the slightest way.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you approve of the United Nations action m Korea ?
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes, I did.
Mr. JACKSON. That would unquestionably, assuming any previous membership in th3 Communist Party, succeed in setting some sort of a date. 
Mr. POTrER. Did you approve of it at the time that we entered it? Did you approve of our action at the time we went into the Korean War?  715 
Mr. ROSSEN. Yes. If you say, did I have any organized way of expressing my approval, I would have to say "No."
Mr. PorrMR. NO just within your own opinion.
Mr. ROSSEN. Within my own opinion, I approved the United Nations action.
Mr. JACKSON. Did you approve of the manner in which Albert Maltz was disciplined by the Communist Party? Do you recall the case when he was forced to repudiate statements in an article which he had written?
Mr. ROssFN. I shall have to decline to answer that question, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, we have at least gone back a little way. Do you believe, out of your own judgment and your own opinion, that a member of the Communist Party, having been defined as in that letter, should be permitted a place in the entertainment field, allowed to continue his work in an area where he might conceivably be able to propagandize?
Mr. ROSSEN. I really think the law in this case, if I may be permitted to say so, is at fault. The law, I think, is at fault. I do not think there is really a clear definition on the question of the Communist Party. For instance, in reading the McCarran Act, the McCarran Act saysMr. WooD. If you will pardon me, the question that was asked, if I understood it, was whether or not you believe that a confirmed Communist who believes in adopting the Communist philosophy should be permitted a place in the entertainment field, where he could have an opportunity to spread propaganda in the entertainment world.
Mr. RossEN. I was trying to answer the question, sir, but if you want it cut down, I will.
Mr. JACKSON. The Smith Act defines a Communist as one dedicated to the overthrow of the Government by force and violence. Let us say, do you think that one who is dedicated by definition to the overthrow of the Government by force and violence should be permitted a place in the entertainment world ?
Mr. ROSSEN. I do not think so, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you believe that, by the same definition, a Commu- nist should be permitted to work in defense plants or industries essential to the rearmament effort?
Mr. ROSSEN. You are making the same definition?
Mr. JACKSON. Same definition.
Mr. ROSSEN. No; I don't think that, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you believe they should be permitted to hold office in labor unions?
Mr. RossEN. I wouldn't be a judge of that, sir. Really, I wouldn't;
Mr. Cohn is a better one.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Rossen, I am very sorry that you have seen fit not to cooperate fully with the committee. I acknowledge the legality of your definition of cooperation--"up to the point where your constitutional rights are involved." But I feel personally that we are engaged in a mortal struggle, in which one philosophy or the other is going to be victorious. I also feel that you have in your possession information which would be of inestimable value not only to this committee but to the entire country and every citizen of this country. 716 INDUSTRY I hope that you will, as the weeks go by-I hope it very sincerely-see your way clear to coming before this committee, not in the role of an informer, but in the role of a loyal American citizen, and in line with the statement that you yourself made before this committee. Because I believe that your testimony today is inconsistent with your profession of loyalty. I hope that it will come to pass that the committee can have you back at a future date, when you will go all out in an effort to do your part toward whipping this thing we are up against.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter?
Mr. PoTTER. Mr. Rossen, in response to a question by Mr. Jackson, you stated that there could be two types of Communists. There could be your hard-boiled political Communist, and then there is the softheaded misguided liberal. Since Korea, do you believe anybody can remain a member of the Communist Party without being a hardboiled political Communist?
Mr. ROSSEN. I would say not only would it be very difficult, but I think pretty idiotic.
Mr. POTTER. Your statement in response to a question by counsel as to whether you are now a member of the Communist Party, you were emphatic in stating that you were not, and you did not believe in their aims and principles. Now, what are the principles of communism which you oppose?
Mr. ROSsEN. Well, I thought I stated that, but I would be very glad to restate it.
Mr. POTTER. You might have stated it; yes.
Mr. ROSSEN. I stated it when Mr. Doyle asked me, but I would be very glad to restate it. I said that I felt that communism would lead to a Soviet form of Government, whikh would ultimately lead to dictatorship. Dictatorship must in and of itself destroy every kind of freedom that we know under democracy. Therefore, I am opposed to it. That was in essence what I had said to Mr. Doyle before.
Mr. PoTTER. You-also stated, I believe, that you do not believe one can have divided loyalty.
Mr. ROSSEN. That is quite correct, sir.
Mr. POTTER. Now, as an American citizen, we assume certain re- sponsibilities with our citizenship. We are still drafting young men into the service to fight Communist forces. And yet in the little that has been asked of you to aid the American people in better understanding the Communist menace, you have failed to assume the duty and responsibility which is yours as a citizen, when at the same time we are asking these young men to make these sacrifices. They are not more desirous of getting shot at than any one else. It is probably a lot harder for them to put on a uniform and to fight than it is for you to do your duty in the witness chair. But they have assumed that responsibility as a part of their citizenship. How do you reconcile your profession of deep loyalty with your testimony today?
Mr. ROSSEN. All I can say, Mr. Potter, is that I think in my own mind I have reconciled it. That does not mean that what is in my mind is the irrevocable truth. We all try to find the truth as we see it ourselves. I recognize your question, and I guess you will just have to recognize my answer.
Mr. POTTER. You do not want to leave the impression with the committee or with the American people that you still would like to ride both rails of the fence. 717 
Mr. ROSSEN. I don't want to ride both rails. I really don't.
Mr. POTTER. I have no more questions. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the largest annual salary that you received while being employed or engaging in your profession in Hollywood 
Mr. ReSSEN. Well, it is very hard for me to answer that accurately, because in the past 4 or 5 years I have not worked annually. Sometimes I have worked in terms of stock participation, which I cannot determine at this time. The last time I worked for a salary, it was $5,000 a week.
Mr. JACKSON. I did not understand the answer. 
Mr. ROSSEN. I said I could not determine my annual salary.
Mr. JACKSON. I got that. But the amount?
Mr. ROSSEN. The last time I worked as a salaried employee without any stock participation, I received $5,000 a week. 
Mr. POTTER. I would like to make a comment that there is much more economic reward in the moving-picture industry than in politics.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Kearney has another question.
Mr. KEARNEY. Out of that $5,000 a week salary that you spoke of, did you contribute any of that to the Communist Party?
Mr. ROSSEN. I shall have to decline to answer that. 
Mr. WooD. Any further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. Unless there are any further questions of this wit- ness, he may be excused.
Mr. WOOD. Very well. The witness may be excused. I think it is too late to proceed with another witness. It is now quarter of 5. I assume the other members of the committee are in somewhat the same position I am in. I have not had a chance to be in my office to even read my mail today.
Mr. POPPER (Martin Popper, attorney for J. Edward Bromberg). May I make a statement in connection with this? I represent a witness who was subpenaed here this morning. After a promise made some time ago, before he was subpenaed again, I made a request at that time on the basis of medical certificates given to this committee to be examined. I advised with him and said, "Under the circumstances, you ought to come down here anyway." He has'been here, and he has been sitting here since early this morning.
Mr. WOOD. So have we.
Mr. POPPER. I understand. But after all, the application was made by this witness. It seems to me it would only be fair and certainly consistent with every proceeding that I have every taken part in, judicial, extra-judicial, and everything else, to have the business disposed of so that he does not have the further strain that has been imposed upon him. He is here for that purpose.
Mr. Tavenner said, of course without making any promises obviously, that he would try to dispose of this business today.
Mr. WoOD. It is certainly the desire of this committee to expedite the business as rapidly as possible.
Mr. POPPER. I understand. 
Mr. WooD. The members of this committee, however, have other duties to perform. 
Mr. POPPER. So have we as citizens. 718 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WooD. We have been in session since 10 o'clock this morning.
Mr. POPPER. I am making a plea--Mr. WooD. I am not disposed to keep the committee beyond the time when they have to go home.
Mr. POPPER. You appreciate that this is not our home. We would rather stay away.
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you identify yourself for the record? 
Mr. POPPER. I thought the committee knew me so well by this time
Mr. TAVENNER. They do, but this is for the record. ,Mr. POPPER. Martin Popper, attorney for J. Edward Bromberg. At the moment, Mr. Chairman, all I am asking for is the indulgence on the part of the members of the committee to dispose of this today if they possibly can. I would appreciate it. I do this in the same way as I would, addressing myself to the discretion of the court. I wonder whether in a final sense the members would not save themselves a lot of time.
Mr. WOOD. I do not know of any courts that hold after 5 o'clock in the afternoon.
Mr. PPPER. On the other hand, I don'tMr. WooD. I am not disposed to keep the committee here any longer. I have imposed on them all day. I believe Mr. Bromberg is here at the committee's expense. 
Mr. POPPER. The statutory fees of this committee hardly make up for a witness staying in Washington overnight.
Mr. WooD. The committee will stand in recess until 10 o'clock in the morning. (Whereupon, at 4: 50 p. m. the committee recessed, to reconvene at 10 a. m. Tuesday, June 26, 1951.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 3 TUESDAY, JUNE 26, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met, pursuant to call, at 10:30 a. m., in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood (chairman), Francis E. Walter, Bernard W. Kearney, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Donald T. Appell, investigator; John W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. J. Edward Bromberg?
Mr. WooD. Mr. Bromberg, will you stand and be sworn, please. Do you solemnly swear that the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BROMBERG. I do. TESTIMONY OF J. EDWARD BROMBERG, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, MARTIN POPPER 
