Mrs. FLEURY. My name is Bernyce Polifka Fleury, and I also go under the name of Bernyce Polifka, professionally.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the names, please.
Mrs. FLEURY. B-e-r-n-y-c-e P-o-l-i-f-k-a F-l-e-u-r-y.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mrs. Fleury ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I was born in Sacramento, Calif., in 1913, May 13.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now live in California ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes; I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in California ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Off and on, I would say, all my life, except for a year in the East and almost a year in Europe.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee briefly what your educational training has been.
Mrs. FLEURY. Elementary and high schools in California; 3 years of it at the Sacramento Junior College; 2 years at the Art Center School and 1 year of the Choinard Art Institute.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation or profession ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I am an artist, designer, instructor-artist and de- signer and instructor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state briefly what the nature of your work has been in art designing?
Mrs. FLEURY. I have been a-when I first got out of the school I was a free-lance designer for several years, which entailed package designing, designing of all kinds of products-not all kinds, but quite a few different kinds of products; a little bit of advertising design, and it has also entailed work as a motion picture background artist, layout artist and art direction; also mural designing. My life's big job-public job, as a matter of fact, were wall decorations and mural designs for the Hollywood Race Track. Does that ;cover it?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; I think so. Are you married?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes; I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your husband's name ? 1776 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mrs. FLEURY. Eugene Fleury.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is he engaged in the work of art, himself ?
Mrs. FLEURY. He most certainly is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just what is the nature of this work ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Well, I would say exactly the same as mine; artist and designer and instructor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Fleury, it came to the attention of the committee through its investigation that both you and your husband were at one time members of the Communist Party.
Mrs. FLEURY. That's correct. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee when, and the circum- stances under which you became a member of the Communist Party ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes; and if I may, I would like to preface it with one short statement. I don't know whether this is a preface. I think it is a part of it. That is, that the time when my husband and I became members-not active members in the Communist Party-the Communist Soviet Russia was our ally, and the Communist Party was, I believe, also in the
Mr. POrrER. Ballot?
Mrs. FLEURY (continuing). Ballot. Thank you. On the ballot. At no time have we ever been un-American or subversive. My husband and I have talked about this a great deal. I believe-we think it was around 1942, we think now, that we became interested in a group of artists which got together in a very casual manner to talk about art and how we could become better artists. As a matter of fact, as I recall back, I don't believe the term "communism" or "Marxism" was named at the first couple of meetings. I would say that we went to about-now, I am guessing on this, sir-a half a dozen meetings before my husband went in the Army. At that time, he, of course, had nothing more to do with the Communist Party. I continued going to meetings. Now, not regular meetings, may I say, because my pattern of living had changed quite a great deal. Most of these meetings-as a matter of fact, most all the meetings at which I went to were very casual meetings. They were informal, and I hate to bore the committee, but they were also the coffee-and-doughnut kind, too. (At this time Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mrs. FLEURY. A lot of them were very open meetings. Would you like me to go on ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; we would like to have the full benefit of your knowledge.
Mrs. FLEURY. I can personally recall no talk of politics, with the ex- ception of current events, at the meetings which I attended. The main concern of the people was about how we could be artists, how we can be better artists, art in industry, fine arts, the problems of the artist, in other words.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, this was a group of artists?
Mrs. FLEURY. I would say, sir, that the majority of the people in the group were artists; yes, to the best of my knowledge. of my knowledge, sir. To the best 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you recall what arrangement there was in this group for the payment of dues ?  1777 I do know that dues were paid, again in a very casual manner. Who collected them, I do not know. I do know that dues were collected, though.
Mrs. FLEURY. No, sir; I don't. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether or not there was any percentage of salary assessed your husband or you ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I vaguely remember, sir, that the dues were based on a percentage, and it seemed as I recall, it was a very low percentage in our group, considering on a salary basis. I mean, the percentage was quite low in our group, as I recall, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, do you recall any outstanding Communist in the Hollywood industry, the moving-picture industry, who attended those meetings ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Sir, I think it would be impossible for me to say "Communist." I can say some people were there, but whether-I cannot say positively that they were Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Biberman
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes; I did, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Which of the Bibermans was it?
Mrs. FLEURY. Mr. Edward Biberman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Edward Biberman?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you play any particular part in these meetings which you attended ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes; I think that both Mr. Biberman and I played a part in these meetings. You see, Mr. Biberman had very decided ideas about art, and I also had very decided ideas about art, and I am afraid we didn't agree most of the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the ideas about art which Mr. Edward Biberman sponsored?
Mrs. FLEURY. To talk about his ideas about art, Mr. Tavenner, I also have to talk about my own ideas about art.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; I can understand that. 
Mrs. FLEURY. It seemed to me that my difference in opinion-my main differences in opinion were that it is not the problem of the artist to concern himself with, shall we say, social content, propaganda, et cetera; that that is not the artist-I am probably saying this very badly. I am an artist, I am not a talker. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You are doing very well.
Mrs. FLEURY. That the artist-it is not his medium-it is not the medium of an artist to do any kind of documentation or even journalism, such as we have in the Life magazine. In other words, painting is not the medium for. Mr. TAVENNER. When you were speaking of art, you were speaking of the field of painting ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I was speaking of the field of painting, yes, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. You did not agree, as I understand with Edward Biberman, that your artMrs. FLEURY. That is quite right.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). That your art of painting should necessarily carry a social message ?
Mrs. FLEURY. That is correct. I don't believe that it should. 1778 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. That, you say, was the outstanding difference be- tween you ? M rs. FLEURY. That, was the outstanding difference. We went around on it several times.
Mr. TA.\ENNER. Were you given any literature, both you and the other members of this group ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I can tell you the literature which I was given. I was given a pamphlet on art, and I was also given a book on artloaned a book on art, I should say. (At this time Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the character of these books on art which you were given to study ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I can only briefly-I can't go into detail about it because I honestly cannot remember the entire content of the books. The one pamphlet was about the artist David, a French Revolutionary artist whom I consider a very dull painter and not a very good painter, and I could see no reason that he should be considered a great painter simply because he had some connection with the French Revolution. There are many other artists before his time and after his time in France who. in my estimation, were much greater painters, much better painters than he was. The second book-Mr. TAVENNER. Now, just one moment.
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that particular artist rather sponsored by the Communists as the ideal which should be followed in the practice of your art?
Mrs. FLEURY. Well, considering that the pamphlet was given to me at a meeting, I would assume that it was one of the artists.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. Now, I interrupted you. What did you have in mind to state ?
Mrs. FLEURY. The book?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. You were discussing the artists from the period of the French Revolution.
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, and then I think I was going to mention-you asked me what literature had been given to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mrs. FLFEURY. The book. Now, I wish I could-I wish I did remember the name of it. I don't remember the name. I don't remember the author. It was a book on art and the artist's place-now, as I recall-in society. I was to give a report on this book. I found it very difficult to give a report on a book which I did not agree with, which I certainly did not. I made a half-hearted attempt at giving. a report, but I absolutely do not remember the name of the book, the author of the book. All I know is that I disagreed with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you express those beliefs in meetings? r . I think that was pretty obvious, Mr. Tavenner.
Mrs. FLEu
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us who met with you in these groups? First, I want to make certain that the persons you have mentioned were persons known to you to be members of the Communist Party, if they were. What persons who were members of the Communist Party met with you in these meetings?
Mrs. FLEURY. I believe, sir, there are only two persons-I beg your pardon? COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1779 
Mr. WALTER. Go ahead. Proceed. 
Mrs. FLEURY. I believe there are only two persons which it wodld be at all possible for me to connect with the Communist Party. One of them is Mr. William Pomerance and one is Mr. David Hilberman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the names, please? 
Mrs. FLEURY. The first names, too?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes-no; not the first names.
Mrs. FLEURY. P-o-m-e-r-a-n-c-e. H-i-l-b-e-r-m-a-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was Mr. Hilberman's first name?
Mrs. FIxuy. David.
Mr. TAVENNER. David. What were the circumstances under which you met with them in the Communist Party matters?
Mrs. FLEURY. At the same meetings about art sameMr. TAVENNER. Where were these meetings held?
Mrs. FLEURY. They were held at various houses. I remember going to meetings at Mr. Hilberman's. I remember going to meetings at
Mr. Pomerance's. I remember going to meetings at other houses who, believe me, I cannot remember whose house they were or where they were. I understand, also, that my husband, in his previous testimony to this committee, mentioned that there was a meeting at our house. I do not remember that meeting at all. We have discussed it since and evidently I either was out of town or-evidently, the only thing we can think of is that I was out of town.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, how did you learn when and where meetings were to be held?
Mrs. FLEURY. Well, it was a very vague thing. Somebody would say, "Well, let's meet 2 weeks from today at such and such a house." Perhaps you would get a phone call putting it over for a couple of weeks, or perhaps someone would say, "Well, we are going to get together at" somebody's. There was no regular routine at any time on where we were to meet.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well. how did you go to the places of these meet- ings? What means of transportation did you have?
Mrs. FLEURY. When my husband was in the Army, I was very often picked up by either Mr. Hilberman or Mr. Pomerance, inasmuch as we lived in the same district of the Los Angeles area.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, can you tell the committee the names of any of the persons present at those meetings which were attended by Mr. Edward Biberman and which Mr. William Pomerance, for instance, took you to?
Mrs. FLEURY.' That is very difficult, and I'll tell you the reason why,
Mr. Tavenner. I am going to try to answer to the very best of my ability as honestly as I can and to the best of my ability. I had met a great number of people during that time with my work in the studios. I have met a great number of people since that time. There were many parties, and the thing begins to overlap in my mind to the point where I am afraid I would be guessing, and I don't think you want me to guess.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is correct. Now, you spoke of the fact that your interest in art, that of both you and your husband, was what led you into joining the Communist Party.
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir. I think that was the main reason that we went into the Communist Party. interest. 81595-51-pt. 5- 10 Certainly we had no political 1780 
Mr. T.VEFNNER. Yes. Your entire life and that of your husband is centered around the field of art?
Mrs. 'FLEURY. Yes; both of our lives. 
Mr. TAVENNER. So that groups discussing art made a special appeal to both you and your husband
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir; very much so. We will talk art 25 hours a day. I know there is only 24, but we will talk 25.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, as time went on, what was your reaction to the literature, the Communist Party literature that was given to you and the principles that were discussed by Ed Biberman in the field of art 
Mrs. FLEURY. Well, of course, as far as the principles discussed by Ed Biberman in the feld of art, as I think I stated previously, from the very beginning I did not agree with him. As far as any other discussions about communism, Marxism, and so forth, frankly, it wor- ried me at first, and I did not agree with it again, but I still-my interest being mostly in art, as I think so many of us in that group were, that the other thing kind of slid by and the political end of it caught up with us a little bit later. In other words, we became aware of its political-not influence, but wrongness
Mr. TAVENNER. You became aware of the political implication on it as you proceeded ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Implications. That is the word, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then what did you do when you became aware of the political implications?
Mrs. FLERY. I stopped going to meetings. As a matter of fact, I became-when I became aware of it, I began going less and less often. It is kind of a drift-out, if you know what I mean, until I ceased having anything to do with the Communist Party, and I believe, sir, that that was in-now, again I am not very good at dates. I believe it was in 1944. To the best of my recollection or remembrance, it was in 1944, possibly the early part of 1945. I am almost convinced, though, it was 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Fleury, during the course of this investigation, it has developed from the testimony of a great number of witnesses that the Communist Party sought to mold the thought of writers that they brought within their groups; that when those writers ceased to write as members of the Communist Party they were made to account for it. I have reference particularly to Budd Schulberg, which is a very famous example of it, and also to Albert Maltz. In your description of the method by which Ed Biberman endeavored to explain to you the importance of carrying a social message in your painting, were you aware of the fact that your own ideas were being, in any way, led into that realm or that area of carrying a social message in your painting?
Mrs. FLEURY. I don't believe, sir, that I realized it at the time, no. I have thought about it since, and I think that perhaps there possibly might have been an inference, shall we say, that I might contribute more as an artist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, with reference to the books and the literature which was furnished to you, do you consider that the literature constituted the Marxist line or the Marxist thought on art?  INDUSTRY 1781 
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes. There is nothing else I can think but that it was the Marxist line and thought. Of course, it may have changed by now, too. At that time it must have been the Marxist idea on art.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what was it specifically which led you to sever your tie with the Communist Party ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Well I think possibly the same thing that took me into the party took me out of the party, perhaps in some respects. That is, you see, when you want to be a better artist, it also means you want to be a better person and, also, all artists at all times have a terrific curiosity. They are constantly students, and they are constantly trying to find out something new, something which will, shall I say, help them in their beliefs as artists as well as what they actually put down on canvas or on paper. I do know this, and very, very definitely, that when I went into the party, I was not aware of its political implications, not in the slightest, and the longer I stayed in the party, I became more and more aware of the political implications, and so plus the fact that I simply didn't agree with it, I would like to say that I do not agree with any of the concepts, any of the aspects of communism in any form whatsoever. I don't agree with what the Soviet Union is doing today, I don't agree with the so-called Communist Party in this country, I don't agree with-plus, I don't agree with what they say about art.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you believe, as an artist, that you could successfully practice your artMrs. FLEURY. Yes, I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you haven't heard the rest of my question, whether you could successfully practice your art if you were told by Ed Biberman or anyone else within the Communist Party how you should conduct it.
Mrs. FLEURY. Mr. Tavenner, in the field of fine arts, I do not believe that any artist can be told how to paint, how to draw or what he should draw or what he should paint. In the field of commercial art you have a job to do, whether it be advertising or illustration or wall decoration or moton pictures. Then I think your art must fulfill the function of that job need. Does that answer your question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. WALTER. IS this a good place for a break?
Mr. TAVENNER. Just one minute. Yes.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will stand in recess until a quarter of 2. (Whereupon, at the hour of 12 noon, an adjournment was taken in the above hearings until the hour of 1:45 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (Whereupon at the hour of 2 p. m. of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, the same parties being present.)
Mr. WALTER. The meeting will come to order. Mrs. Fleury, will you please resume your seat. I would like to admonish the audience that thus far we have had very fine order. There is a lot of audible conversation over to my right and I trust that you will continue with the cooperation that you have shown thus far and refrain from audible conversation. Proceed, Mr. Tavenner. 1782 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY TESTIMONY OF BERNYCE POLIFKA FLEURY-Resumed 
Mr. FLEURY. Yes, I did. And his advice was to be honest and cooperative with the committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you given the committee in closed session the benefit, of such information as you had relating to the persons you thought may have been present at the meetings?
Mrs. FLEURY. I believe I honestly have; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee has a record of that for use as investigating leads?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned in the course of your testimony this morning a Mr. David HilbermanMrs. FLEURY. Correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. As being a person who took you to a number of these Communist Party meetings.
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was Mr. Hilberman's occupation or profession?
Mrs. FLEURY. He was in the animation business. I believe he was a lay-out man at the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he was employed at that time ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I believe he was at Warner Bros. Cartoons. It was known at that time as Leon Schlesinger, which is now Warner Bros. Cartoons.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you husband also cooperate with the committee and appear before it ?
Mrs. FLEURY. To the best of my knowledge, he did; yes sir.
Mr. TAVEXNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. To what extent, if any, did you feel that the Communist Party in America, so far as fine arts were concernedMrs. FLEURY. The influence of the Communist Party on fine arts ?
Mr. DOYLE. To what extent did you feel the Communist Party in the United States so far as fine arts was concerned, as distinguished from commercial art-- 
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes?
Mr. DOYLE. Was trying to educate you that the subject of the artist, or the subject which the artist should take and paint should be dictate ed by tl:- state rather than by the initiative and resourcefulness of the artist himself?
Mrs. FLEURY. Well, I feel that-I can't say that they used the word "state," but I feel that they would very possibly have liked me to use my talent as an artist for social content, shall we say, for propaganda purposes; yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Did you come to the conclusion that the policy of the Communist Party would not only have gone to the point of liking to have you use it for propaganda in fine arts, but they actually felt that the province of an artist was to paint whatever the ruling body and government might dictate, or might feel was-Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, I do.
Mr. DOYLE. You get my point, do you, Mrs. Fleury ?  
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes; I do.
Mr. DOYLE. I don't know how to word it.
Mrs. FLEURY. It is very hard to word it. INDUSTRY 1783 It is kind of an intan- gible thing. 
Mr. DOYLE. Did you come to the conclusion that the policy of the Communist Party in the United States was to say to the artist, "You shall paint this" ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. And that is what you would paint?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, that was repugnant to you as an American artist?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir, Mr. Doyle. And I feel it was repugnant to a lot of other artists besides myself.
Mr. DOYLE. I hope the time will never come, and I am sure it will never come in our country, when that is the thinking.
Mrs. FLEURY. I hope so, too. 
Mr. DOYLE. One more question, Mr. Chairman. Because you are a woman I am asking you if you saw any effort of the Communist Party in America to mobilize the children and young people of our country under the Communist banner. Did that happen to come to your attention at all ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Inasmuch as I am not a mother, and that I am a wife and an artist, no, sir. I was always approached from a professional viewpoint.
Mr. DOYLE. You stated the same things that took you into the party took you out of the party. I noticed particularly this statement by you, and I wrote it down, "If you are an artist you want to be a better person."
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DOYLE. What did you mean by that ?
Mrs. FLEURY. Well, I think that to be good in any profession that you, too, have to be good. I mean, I am getting a little bit soulful, but I believe in it, that if you want to be a better doctor, if you want to be a better singer, if you want to be a better actor, if you want to be a better lawyer, that you, too, have to improve yourself, be better, yourself. I know it sounds quite vague. I hope
Mr. DOYLE. No; it is not at all vague for me, and I want to com- pliment you on making that observation. In other words, if you want to be the highest and the best artist, you have to put something on the canvas besides paint?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. And that came from within yourself.
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. I think that is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Mrs. Fleury, I would simply like to add my word of thanks for the testimony you have given. It has been very helpful to the committee. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Potter? 
Mr. POTTER. Mrs. Fleury, the Communist Party has made great efforts to recruit and appeals to artists of all kindsMrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir. 1784 
Mr. POTrER. And I. too, am most happy that you, as an artist, have taken the opportunity to appear before our committee and tell the committee the reasons why you, as an artist, couldn't remain in the Communist Party, and I think that all true artists, if they should ever fall victims to the Communist organization, that their true artistry will take them out the same as it has you.
Mrs. FIJXRY. I hope so.
Mr. POTTER. I wish to commend you for your fortitude that it has taken to appear before this committee, and I wish you every success.
Mrs. FLEURY. Thank you, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Mrs. Fleury, you have testified that the meetings were held at irregular times. Was there ever any notice published of the time and place of the meetings?
Mrs. FLEURY. Published, sir ? You mean in a paper orMr. WALTER. Yes.
Mrs. FLEURY. No, sir. No; it was always by word of mouth, whether by telephone orMr. WALTER. Very quietly and cautiously?
Mrs. FLEURY. Well, I am afraid that considering the people that were within our group, I don't think it was too cautious, sir. Casual.
Mr. WALTER. You have made it a pointMrs. FLEURY. Casual, I would say, is'more the word.
Mr. WALTER. But you did make it a point to keep the public from being aware of times and places of meetings, didn't you?
Mrs. FLEURY. That's correct.
Mr. WALTER. Why? 
Mrs. FLEURY.
Mr. WALTER. were doing was
Mrs. FLEURY. Sir, I couldn't answer that. Was it because there was a feeling that perhaps you something that didn't bear the light of publicity? I think possibly it might have been treated such as children treat secret societies. Several times I had that feeling.
Mr. WALTER. Yes. I think a great many people had or shared those views up to a point. We used to laugh at these comics, as we called them. not Commies, until people became aware of the fact that there was something more to this movement and that it was no longer a joke.
Mrs. FLEURY. That is quite correct.
Mr. WALTER. You said that you drifted out of the party because of the political discussions that took place. What were those discussions? 
Mrs. FLETRY. I am afraid that I may not have made myself clear this morning; that I became aware of the political implications of the party, and that in the group which I was in, we had very few political discussions. We did talk about current events, but as far as we did, also, talk a little bit about Marxism, and that awful word-how do you pronounce it-dialectical materialism, but we had very, very little talk about politics, as such, but I began to realize the political implications of the Communist Party, which I was not aware of when I went into it. I knew I was going to become a Communist.
Mr. WALTER. Was literature distributed?
Mrs. FLEURY. Yes, sir.
Mr. WALTER. That was Communist literature, wasn't it? 
Mrs. FLEURY. I assume it must have been, yes. 
Mr. WALTER. Yes. So that you were fully aware, up to that time, of what you were doing?  1785 
Mrs. FLEURY. That's right. 
Mr. WALTER. Any further questions, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. IS there any reason why this witness should not be excused
Mr. TAVENNER. There is not.
Mr. WALTER. The witness will be excused. I would like to at this time state that the members of the committee have been simply inundated by the mail and it is going to be a physical impossibility to answer all of the letters that have come to us, but I do want to state publicly that we are very appreciative of this correspondence, 99 percent of which expresses approval of the work being done by this committee. Who is the next witness, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, we had subpenaed the husband of
Mrs. Fleury, Mr. Eugene Fleury. He appeared before the committee, and his testimony was in line with that of the previous witness.
Mr. WALTER. If it is merely cumulative, I think, to save time, we canMr. TAVENNER. It would be, and unless you insist, I would not call him.
Mr. WALTER. Is he here ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir, he is here, and he may be excused.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Fleury is excused from attendance under the subpena. Who is your next witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Donald Gordon.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Gordon. Will you raise your right hand, please. Do you swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. GORDON. I do. 
Mr. WALTER. Sit down, please, Mr. Gordon. TESTIMONY OF DONALD GORDON
