Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Dr. Abowitz? Dr. ABOwITz. In New York City, 1911. That is, in Brooklyn, New York City, 1911.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession? Dr. ABowrrz. I am a physician; M. D.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a specialist in any field ? Dr. ABowrrz. In internal medicine.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are engaged in the practice of your profession in Los Angeles ? Dr. ABOWITZ. Yes, sir, I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you practiced medicine here ? Dr. ABowITz. About 9 years; possibly 10. Between 9 and 10 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to that time where did you live ? Dr. ABowrrz. Here in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. In Los Angeles. Are you a native of California? Dr. ABowITz. By adoption, only; not by birth. Having been born outside of California, I can be a native only by choice, and I have so chosen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, thank you for reminding me of that. Are you the husband of Mrs. Ellenore Abowitz who has testified here yesterday ? Dr. Aowrrz. Yes, sir, I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us very briefly your educational background. Dr. ABowrr. I was educated in the city of New York public schools, high school, and college, and I had my medical training in the University of Vienna in 1932 to 1937, and after that I came out here to Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Abowitz, you are acquainted with the purposes of this investigation, I think? Dr. ABOWITZ. I am, but I can't say that I agree with them.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand. During the course of the testimony here we have learned that you were a member of the Communist Party, and if that is true you should be in a position to give this committee valuable advice and information relating to the extent of Communist infiltration into the moving picture industry and in this community. I refer you to testimony which was introduced in executive session before this committee a few days ago. Dr. KriegerM. Krieger testified in executive session and was asked about the homes where Communist Party meetings were held or, at least, homes in which he had met with Communist groups and, according to his testimony, he recalled the name of one. He was asked this question, "What is the name of the only individual you do remember ?' Dr. KRmIGER. It was a physician by the name of Murray Abowitz.  INDUSTRY 1743 Then he proceeded to state that Mrs. Ellenore Abowitz was the chairman of the particular group or cell. Now, with regard to yourself, I would like to ask you first the question whether or not Dr. Krieger was telling the truth when he stated he met in a Commnunist Party meeting in your home and knew you as a member of the Communist Party. Dr. ABowITZ. Mr. Tavenner, because the Communist Party has been listed by this committee as a subversive organization I must claim the privilege of the fifth amendment and decline to answer that question.
Mr. WooD. You don't have to do that. You are under no com- pulsion. The question is whether you do do it or not, not whether you must. Dr. ABOWITZ. I have an inner compulsion to do so, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Acting under that, do you do it? Dr. ABowrrz. I so do.
Mr. TAVENNER. When were you married, Dr. Krieger ? Dr. ABowITZ. The name is Abowitz.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. Abowitz. Dr. ABBOWITZ. August 14, 1945. Yes, I remember because it was VJ Day, and for other reasons I recall it, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you also remember whether or not your wife,
Mrs. Abowitz, was employed in any capacity by counsel who is now representing you ? Dr. ABowrrz. I have no such recollection.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information, Doc- tor, that a prospectus for the 1944 winter term of the People's Edu- cational Center, and also a prospectus for the 1947 winter term of the same school listed you as one of the school instructors. I would like to ask you some questions relating to your connection and service there, if it be a fact that you were an instructor. Were you such an instructor? Dr. ABowrrz. For the same reasons, that this organization has also been listed by this committee, I must decline to answer that question, also.
Mr. WooD. Dr. Abowitz, that isn't a complete answer, because we are entitled to an answer unless you decline to do so, for any reason you may give. To say you must do it is not an answer. It is a question of what you do do. Dr. ABOWITZ. I think the record would show, Mr. Chairman, that I decline. 
Mr. WooD. You said you must decline. Dr. ABOWITZ. Well, it is a choice of words. I feel compelled to do so out of necessity to avoid testifying against myself.
Mr. WooD. Then you do do it ? Dr. ABOWITz. And also to avoid destroying what I think are some of the sacred things in this country. 
Mr. WooD. Nevertheless, from the standpoint of legal procedure this committee is entitled to an answer or a declination to answer. Now, which do you do? Dr. ABowrrz. I decline to answer that question for the reasons stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of, or have you been affiliated with the American-Soviet Medical Society? 1744 Dr. ABowrrz. For the same reasons I must decline to answer the questions, and I so do decline, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. According to a letterhead of the Hollywood Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts, Sciences and Professions, dated December 10, 1946, you were listed as a member of the executive council of that organization; is that correct? Dr. Anowrrz. I decline to answer the question on the same grounds. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a candidate for election to the executive board of the southern California chapter of the Progressive Citizens qf America in 1947? Dr. ABoWITz. For the same grounds I decline to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a ballot for the election of officers for the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council of September 1947. The first candidate listed for election to the executive board there appears to be Dr. Murray Abowitz. Will you examine the document and state who is listed? Dr. ABowITz. I beg your pardon?
Mr. TAVENNER. I say, will you examine the document and state who is listed on it as the first candidate for election to the executive board ? Dr. AnowITz. I apparently. see my name there for alphabetical reasons, 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a candidate for election? Dr. ABOWITZ. I am afraid I must give you the same answer for the same reasons, Mr. Counsel. I decline to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a circular of the medical council executive board of the Progressive Citizens of America. On this circular you are listed as the executive secretary. Do you see your name listed there as executive secretary ? Dr. ABOWITz. I do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you the executive secretary of that organiza- tion , Dr. ABowrrz. For the same reasons I must give you the same answer, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of an article that appeared on page 3 of the People's Daily World of November 6, 1948. In this article it is said that a number of people urged dismissal of contempt charges against certain persons, referred to as political prisoners. Among those listed as urging the dismissal of the contempt proceedings is Dr. Murray Abowitz. I would like to ask you this question: If you were properly listed as being one of those who urged the dismissal of the contempt proceedings, will you state the circumstances under which the listing of your name was secured? Dr. ABOWITZ (after conferring with counsel). Because of the fact that the Civil Rights Congress, which apparently sponsored that item, has been listed by your committee as a so-called subversive organization, I must give you the same answer, Mr. Counselor, and decline to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Civil Rights Congress? Dr. ABOWITZ. That is a similar question, and the answer is the same, Mr. Counselor.  1745 
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a program of a conference on the subject of thought control in the United States presented by the Hollywood Arts, Sciences and Professions Council of the Progressive Citizens of America. According to this program Dr. Murray Abowitz was a member of a panel on health and medicine. I would like to ask you, if you did serve on such a panel, who it was that solicited you to do it and the circumstances under which you were solicited. Dr. ABowITZ. For the same reasons, the same answer, Mr. Counselor.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of a call to a bill-of- rights conference held at the Henry Hudson Hotel, New York City, July 16 and 17, 1949, by the Civil Rights Congress. You are listed as one of the sponsors. Would you advise the committee the circumstances under which your sponsorship was solicited and obtained? Dr. ABOWITrrz. Because this was sponsored by the Civil Rights Con- gress I must give you the same answer. I think the bill-of-rights conference, however, would be most appropriate. We still have a part of it left. (The witness conferred with his counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. According to a photostatic copy of a letterhead of the Conference of Peaceful Alternatives to the Atlantic Pact, dated August 21, 19Dr. ABOWITZ. It must be 1950, Mr. Counselor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Forty-nine, you are listed as one of the signers. Will you examine it, please, and state the circumstances under which your signature was obtained. Dr. ABOWITZ. Has that organization been listed lby this committee, or smeared by this committee, as subversive ? Most organizations that have worked for peace in the past few years have been so listed.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you are asking me whether it has been smeared by this committee, I will not hesitate to say it has not. Dr. ABowrrz. I am sorry. I will withdraw that. Has it been so listed? I really didn't mean that.
Mr. TAVENNER. It has been cited as a Communist-front organization. Dr. ABOWITZ. Thank you, Mr. Counsel. Therefore, for the previ- ously stated reason, I must withdrawMr. WooD. At this point, isn't it proper to observe that it has been cited as such by the Attorney General of the United States ?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir; I think not. Dr. ABowITz. And decline to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I show you a photostatic copy of page 2 of the Daily People's World of June 19, 1951. In the left-hand column there is a news item to the effect that a number of persons have signed a brief to be filed in the Supreme Court of the United States, urging a rehearing of the conviction of the 11 Communist Party leaders. The article further says that a number of individuals had written President Truman letters on behalf of the convicted Communist Party leaders. Dr. Murray Abowitz is listed as one of those who wrote the President. Now please do not misunderstand me. I am not undertaking to criti- cize by inference or otherwise any person who writes the President on matters which he has in mind, but what the committee is interested in is whether or not the writing of such letters was promoted by a particular line of the Communist Party and the extent to which this is part 1746 of the Communist plan, so I would ask you that if you did write the President as indicated in that news item to tell the committee the circumstances which led up to your writing it. Dr. ABOWITZ. That is a loaded question similar to the one which I had used and I withdraw it and, for that reason, I must decline to answer it on the ground of the fifth amendment.
Mr. WOOD. Do you so decline ? Dr. ABowrrz. I so do.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a candidate for election to the executive board, of the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council in 1951? Dr. ABowrrz. I decline to answer that on the grounds of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you made a contribution of money to the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council within the past 60 days ? Dr. ABOwITZ. For the same reasons I decline to answer that ques- tion.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic copy of a check dated August the 3d, 1951, purportedly signed by Murray Abowitz. ask you if that is your signature. I Dr. ABowrrz. It resembles it strongly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you identify that as your signature? Dr. ABowITz. I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, is there any doubt in your mind but what that is your signature ? Dr. ABOWITZ. Well, I usually have an M. D. after it, but sometimes I perhaps omit it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I wish you would examine it carefully and see who the payee is on the check and any notations that appear on it that might refresh your recollection as to whether or not it is actually your check. Who is the check payable to, as shown on its face? Dr. ABOwITz. I will show you the photostatic copy and you can read it, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have seen it. I am asking you to do it. Dr. ABOWITZ. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you turn the check over and read the endorse- ment stamped on the back. Dr. ABOWITZ. It has a large "11" on there and "Pay to the order of Security-First National Bank of Los Angeles, Arts, Sciences and Professions Council."
Mr. TAVENNER. Did that represent a donation to the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council made by you? Dr. ABowrrz. Because that information has been listed by you, unfortunately, as a subversive organization, I must decline to answer that on the ground of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the photostatic copy of the check in evidence and ask that it be marked "Exhibit Murray Abowitz No. 1," please.'
Mr. JACKSON. To whom was the check made out ?
Mr. WooD. That will be so entered. 1 See appendix printed in separate volume.  1747 (The check referred to appeared in words and figures as follows:) No. 1714 Murray Abowitz, M. D. 8/3/51 6333 Wilshire Boulevard Los Angeles 48, Calif. York 8233 $25.00 Pay to the order of ASP--_---------------------------------Dollars -----------------------------------Twenty-five and no/0 Wilshire-Crescent Heights Branch 16-329 6301 Wilshire Boulevard. Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association Los Angeles, Calif. Murray Abowitz. (Signed) [The following words and figures appeared on the back of said check:] 11 Pay to the order of 11 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles Art, Sciences and Professions Council 
Mr. TAVENNER. The check bears date of August the 3d, 1951, payable to the order of ASP, in the amount of $25, signed by Murray Abowitz and an endorsement which has already been read. Will you state to the committee the purpose for the raising of funds by that organization? That is, the Southern California Chapter of the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council. Dr. ABOWITZ. I decline to answer that question on the same ground, 
Mr. Counselor.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information, Dr. Abowitz, that you attended a meeting of the Medical Division of the Arts, Sciences and Professions on August 12, 1951, at the home of Dr. Alexander Pennes, P-e-n-n-e-s, in Los Angeles; that Dr. Leo Bigelman, Dr. Max Schoen were present along with a number of other members of the organization. Do you recall that meeting? Dr. ABowrrz. Inasmuch as it again relates to ASP, I must decline on the same grounds.
Mr. WOOD. And do you so decline ? Dr. ABowITZ. I do so decline.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee is in possession of information that there was held, also, at that same address, another meeting on August the 17th of 1951, the purpose of which was to discuss matters relating to this hearing, and that at this meeting it was agreed that a picket line around the building should be maintained, that a crowded hearing room should be maintained, that the witnesses would stand on the fifth amendment, that letters should be sent to all members of the medical and dental associations showing that this committee's investigation is not an attack on individuals but an attack on the entire medical and dental professions; that the services of competent counsel should be secured and that a sizable sum of money be donated for the purpose of defraying the expense of newspaper advertisements, leaflets, pamphlets, brochures to show the members of the ASP appearing before this committeee in a favorable light, and to take care of counsel fees. Will you state whether or not that action was taken at the meeting to which I referred, or any other meeting of that organization ? Dr. ABOWITZ. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment. I think, Mr. Counsel, if I may state at this point, that it is becoming obvious that a shameful piece of espionage and spying has been going on. 81595-51-pt. 5----8 1748 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Then there must be some basis.
Mr. JACKSON. This is called counterespionage. Dr. ABOWITZ. I resent that insinuation.
Mr. JAcKSON. That is no insinuation. Dr. ABOWlrT. Well. it is an insulting remark.
Mr. WooD. If you will just confine your answers to the questions asked it will simplify the hearing considerably.
Mr. T.AVENER. NOW, Communist-front organizations, by the very terms under which they are described, denotes that they are composed of persons who are both members of the Communist Party and nonmenibers of the Communist Party. Many instances have been shown where people have been induced, either as the result of their own culpability or their own carelessness, into organizations which otherwise they would not have joined, so in referring to that I am going to mention-I am not intending to infer that any of them are members of the Communist Party other than those who already have been shown to be by the evidence introduced at this hearing, but I would like to ask you whether or not the following-named persons are members of the Southern California Chapter of the Arts, Sciences and Professions Council.
Mr. John Howard Lawson? Dr. ABowrrZ. I decline to answer that on the same grounds, Mr. Counselor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Abraham Isserinan, I-s-s-e-r-m-a-n? Dr. ABoWITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. William Esterman? Dr. ABowrrz. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Herta Uerkvitz ? Dr. ABowrrz. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. U-e-r-k-v-i-t-z. Now, Sarajo Lord, whose name appeared as the executive secretary on the letters with which the medical and dental associations were circularizedDr. ABowrrz. I'm sorry, I didn't hear that last question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Sarajo Lord, whose name appears as executive sec- retary of the organization at the foot of the letter with which the medical and dental professions were circularized. Dr. Anowrrz. Well, the reason that you are trying to link me with an organization which you have labeled "subversive," I must continue to decline to answer on the grounds of the fifth amendment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dr. P. Price Cobbs? Dr. ABowrrz. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Drusilla Baetache? Dr. ABowITz. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Jane Dawson. Dr. ABowITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNNER. Ann Wallace? Dr. ABowrrz. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Lee Bachelis? Dr. ABowITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Charles Glenn? Dr. ABowITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Elaine Glenn? Dr. ABOWITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Herbert Biberman?  INDUSTRY 1749 Dr. ABOWITZ. Same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Annette Kalish? Dr. ABowITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Lee Blank? Dr. ABowITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. June Fields? Dr. ABowITz. Same answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Manuel Concepcion? Dr. ABOWITZ. Same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party ? Dr. ABOWITZ. I must decline to answer that question on the grounds of the fifth amendment and for the grounds previously stated.
Mr. WOOD. Do you so decline? Dr. ABOWITZ. And I so decline.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. I yield to the members of the committee now. Mr. Walter? 
Mr. WALTER. Doctor, do you know Dr. Krieger? Dr. ABowrrz. I was asked that question previously, sir.
Mr. WALTER. NO, you weren't. Dr. ABOWITZ. I must decline to answer on the same grounds pre- viously stated.
Mr. WALTER. Dr. Krieger is not a Communist. Why do you think that an admission of knowing him would in any wise implicate you in criminal proceedings ? Dr. ABOWITZ. I decline to state my reasons, Mr. Congressman. 
Mr. WALTER. But you decline to answer the question of whether or not you knew him? Dr. ABowrrz. That is correct.
Mr. WALTER. That's all.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. No questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Only one request, but no questions, Mr. Chairman. It seems to me that this might be a good place to insert the letter which was circularized among the doctors and dentists of the county at this point in the record, together with the repudiation of the county medical association of any connection with the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I did that in connection with the testimony of another witness, his wife Ellenore. We have several of them. If you would like to put it in againMr. JACKSON. I don't think there is any necessity of duplicating it, but it seems to me it wouldMr. TAVENNER. It is already on exhibit.
Mr. JACKSON. It seems to be more apropos to the testimony of this witness than that of his wife.
Mr. WooD. I will direct that it be inserted in both instances. (The letter above referred to, written by the Southern California Chapter of the National Council of the Arts, Sciences and Professions is as follows:) DEAR DOCTOR: The House Committee on Un-American Activities is coming to Los Angeles on September 17. Ordinarily, such an event would not bring forth a letter to you. However, in this instance, we feel you will be concerned, because 1750 the committee has subpenaed a large number of professional people of this city, including writers, actors, physicians, dentists, as well as others. This House committee has an infamous record. Its first chairman was the notorious Martin Dies, who initiated this committee's partisan-political smear technique. Its next chairman, J. Parnell Thomas, recently served a prison sentence for misuse of Government funds. The present chairman, Congressman Wood. reveals his contempt of Americanism with the observation that the threats and intimidations of the Ku Klux Klan are an old American custom. The committee, at the cost of over $1 million to the American taxpayer, has concerned itself almost exclusively with intimidating, smearing by innuendo, and depriving of their livelihoods liberal-minded people whose views run counter to those of the committee. At no time has the professional competence and integrity of the subpenaed people been questioned. This committee is not an impartial investigating body. It has prejudged ideas, organizations, and people, as shown by its listing as subversive over 200 publications, and over 600 organizations without proper investigation or hearing. The committee has spent 4 years investigating Hollywood. As a result, many fine people have lost their jobs for refusal to cooperate in what they consider to be the destruction of our democratic rights. It is common knowledge that these actions have led to a deterioration of motion-picture content Fear pervades the entire industry-fear of acting in, or writing, or producing, or directing anything that in the remotest way might be considered subversive by this committee. In conducting its investigations this committee has consistently violated the first and fifth amendments to the Constitution. These amendments guarantee not only the right to speak, write, and think freely, but also the right to remain silent about one's beliefs. The fifth amendment, which provides that no person shall be compelled to be a witness against himself, is fundamental to our democracy. It was intended to protect the individual from being forced by the Government to reveal his political or religious views, and thus subject himself to persecution and prosecution, as indulged in by this committee. Any person who does not insist on this right before the committee would actually be helping to open the way for political and religious persecutions and thus destroy the foundations of democracy. We urge you, therefore, to follow closely the proceedings of this committee when it comes here, so that you may see for yourself its un-American, antidemocratic conduct. We urge you to write your protests to the chairman, Representative Wood, House Office Building, Washington, D. 0. and to Representative Jackson and Doyle who are the California Congressmen on this committee. We welcome your financial and moral support in the fight to defend these men and women, and in so doing, to protect the rights of all. Sincerely yours, SARAJO LORD, Executive Director,Southern CaliforniaChapterof the National Council of the Arts, Sciences and Professions. (The following letter from J. M. de los Reyes, M. D., chairman, Public Relations, Los Angeles County Medical Association was sent in reply to the letter immediately preceding, and reads as follows:) It has been alleged by the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council that a facet of the Communist investigation by the House Committee on Un-American Activities constitutes an attack against the medical profession. The Los Angeles County Medical Association, representing nearly 5,000 doctors of medicine which constitutes the majority of the doctors of medicine in the county of Los Angeles, welcomes any investigation of communism or Communist front activities regardless of where they exist, and does not feel that this or similar investigations are now and can conceivably become an attack in any way upon the medical profession. The American Medical Association, the California Medical Association, and the Los Angeles County Medical Association, by their actions and loyaltyoaths, have shown unequivocally their support of the American way of life. Approved: PAUL D. FOSTER, Secretary-Treasurer,Los Angeles County Medical Assoolation. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1751 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter?
Mr. POTrER. I have no questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Any further questions, Mr. Counsel ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Any reason why this witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance on the committee ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. It is so ordered. The subcommittee will now stand in recess until 10 o'clock, Monday of next week. (Whereupon at the hour of 3:45 p. m. an adjournment was taken in the above hearings until the hour of 10 a. m., Monday, September 24, 1951 at the same place.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 5 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN AcrivrrIEs, Los Angele, Calif. PUBLIC HEARING The subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10:15 a. m. in room 518, Federal Buildin, Los Angeles, Calif., Hon. Francis E. Walter (chairman), presiing.. Committee members present: Representatives Francis E. Walter (chairman), Clyde Doyle, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, investigator John W. Carrington, clerk.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will be in order.
Mr. Tavenner, who is your first witness ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Carl Foreman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Foreman, will you raise your right hand. Do you swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. FOREMAN. I do.
Mr. WALTER. Be seated. TESTIMONY OF CARL FOREMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, SIDNEY COHN
