Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell both names?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. E-l-l-e-n-o-r-e A-b-o-w-i-t-z.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mrs. Abowitz?
Mrs. ABowITz. I was born in Boston, Mass.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you followed a profession?
Mrs. ABowITZ. I beg your pardon?
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you followed a profession? ,Mrs. 
Mrs. ABOWITZ. I don't think so. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you occupied a position of employment of any kind ?
Mrs. ABowrrz. Well, I have had-frankly, I haven't had very much gainful employment, and when you ask me about employment, I don't know exactly what you mean. The first job I had was when I got out of Long Beach Polytechnic High School; for 2 hours I was once working in a dime store and I was fired because I couldn't make any change. That was during the depression, and jobs were hard to get, so I don't remember at this point the next time that I had a paid job.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if your positions of employment have been few, you should not have any difficulty describing them to us.
Mrs. ABOwITZ. Well, perhaps if there is something you are particularly interested in, Mr. Tavenner, I could be helpful.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am interested in general background information relating to all the witnesses who apper before our committee in order that the committee may properly understand and appreciate and evaluate the testimony of the witness.
Mrs. ABowITZ. Well, perhaps I better tell you about my education, then.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. that first, if you like.
Mrs. ABOWITZ. Fine. I was coming to that, but we will take It is very short. I went to grammar high school at the Marengo Grammer School in Alhambra, Calif., and I went to the Franklin Junior High School in Long Beach, Calif. I went to Polytechnic High School in Long Beach, and I went to what is now the Long Beach State College, and that is the extent of my formal education.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now if you will return to the question of your em- ployment.
Mrs. ABOWITz. I think that I was employed for about a year by the Works Progress Administration.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that? 
Mrs. ABOwITZ. I believe it was between 1939 and 1940-I think. I'm not very good at dates. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you had employment since that time, that is paid employment? COMMUNISM IN 
Mrs. ABOWITZ. MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 6155 May I consult with my counsel, please? 
Mr. WooD. Yes, you may.
Mrs. ABOWITZ (after conferring with her counsel). Yes, I have had paid employment.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am sorry, I couldn't hear you.
Mr. ABOWITZ. I said, yes, I have had paid employment.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did that consist of? I mean by that, how were you employed ?
Mrs. ABOWITZ (after conferring with counsel). Chairman, but may I consult with counsel ? I am sorry, Mr. 
Mr. WOOD. Yes. You have that privilege any time you desire.
Mrs. ABOWITZ. I don't like to delay this.
Mr. WooD. That's all right.
Mr. TAVENNER. We will be patient.
Mrs. ABOWITZ (after conferring with her counsel). I am sorry. Will you repeat the question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. My question was: What other employment have you had since the time you were employed by the WPA, and which Ithink you said was about 1938 or 1939?
Mrs. ABowrrz. I am sorry, I am getting a bit rattled here.
Mr. TAVENNER. It seems to me it is a very simple question. 
Mrs. ABowrrz. Perhaps it is simple to you, Mr. Tavenner, but it isn't to me. (The witness conferred with her counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Is it the question or the answer that is complicated ? If it is the question I will try to ask it in another way.
Mrs. ABowrrz. I wish you would.
Mr. TAVENNER. What position of employment have you had in the past 5 years ? What positions, if any ?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. What year would 5 years be, 1945 ?
Mr. TAVENNER. If it is a question of time then I think I will have to return to my former question and just ask you, What employment have you had since 1939? 
Mrs. ABowITz. (after conferring with counsel). I think that at some time since that time I have been a secretary.
Mr. TAVENNER. A secretary employed by whom?
Mrs. ABowrrz. Mr. Chairman, I claim my privilege under the fifth amendment and decline to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Abowitz, the committee has information that you were at one time a witness before the California Committee on Un-American Activities-that is what is known as the Tenney Committee-and that it appears from page 294 of the records of that committee that you were questioned as to whether or not you had ever been a member of the Communist Party and that you replied that you had not been. Am I correct in that ?
Mrs. ABowrrz. I don't remember, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not remember what your answer was ?
Mrs. ABowrrz. May I consult counsel, Mr. Chairman ?
Mr. WooD. Yes, ma'am.
Mrs. ABowITz (after conferring with her counsel). May I see the transcript, please, if you have one ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I will try to look it up. While we are looking for it may I ask you if you recall having appeared as a witness before the committee ? 1656 
Mrs. ABowrrz. Yes, I do recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that in 1947 ? 
Mrs. ABowrrz. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. I refer to page 294 of the 1947 report, which is known as the third report of the committee, where there appears this question by Mr. Combs: Q. A. Q. A. 
Mrs. Abowitz, are you a member of the Communist Party? No, I am not. Did you affiliate with it? No., If you would like to examine the record to refresh your recollection about it I will be very glad to hand it to you.
Mrs. ABowrrz. (after conferring with her counsel). It says that in the book, Mr. Tavenner, so I might have said that.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is in the book just exactly as I read it, is it?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. Oh. I had no doubts about your reading it, no.
Mr. WooD. I didn t get the answer to the question as to whether or not she gave that testimony before the committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. She really hasn't stated yet. She stated it was in the book.
Mr. WOOD. Was that your testimony before the committee?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. It might have been.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there any doubt in your mind about that?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. I don't know. I can't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does not the printed record made in 1947 of your appearance before the committee refresh your recollection as to your appearance there and your testimony ?
Mrs. ABowITZ. Frankly, Mr. Tavenner, I am not even sure about the year, and I am not even sure that it was 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. But the matter of whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party is a matter which one would not ordinarily forget, it being questioned before an investigating committee. It is a little hard for me to understand how you could possibly not remember having been asked the question of whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party, particularly after having been shown the record of it.
Mrs. ABowITz (after conferring with her counsel). I don't want to vouch for the transcript,Mr. Tavenner. That is one of my problems, incidentally.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not asking you to vouch for it. I am asking you if you do not recall having been asked the question of whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party and that you answered, "No." I have merely given you the record to help you to refresh your recollection
Mrs. ABOWIr. Well, I want to say again, if I may, that I am not- I am neither vouching for the transcript nor for the record in that book. Strange things have happened-I think that strange things could happen in those particular transcripts and that particular bookMr. WOOD. Mrs. Abowitz, the question that is asked you now, irrespective of what is in the book, is: Did you appear before that committee and give the testimony that you have been asked about?  1657 
Mrs. ABowrTZ. Having read what is supposed to be the transcript in the book which Mr. Tavenner had sent over here, I would say that probably I might have answered that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS there any uncertainty whatever in your mind about that?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. It has been a long time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Oh, 4 years is not very long.
Mrs. ABowrrZ. Four years ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, 1947. 
Mrs. ABowrrz. Well, I am not sure, Mr. Tavenner, that it was 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, whether 1946, 1947, or 1948, it is an insignifi- cant matter as compared with the question of whether or not you were asked a question of that character and that you gave a categorical answer. Now, I am asking you to tell the members of this committee whether or not you were asked that question and whether or not you answered it.
Mrs. ABowrrz. I can't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. You can't remember ?
Mrs. ABowrrz. I beg your pardon.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recallMrs. ABowrrz. Mr. Tavenner, I'm sorry. I don't want to be a re- calcitrant witness, and I don't want to take up too much time, but I don't find myself here feeling very comfortable, and I think you can understand that, and if I have an inclination to get a bit rattled, please forgive me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; and for that reason I do not want to hurry you. I want you to have every opportunity to recall this matter, because it is important.
Mrs. ABowrrz. And consequently, I will have to ask your indulgence and discuss this matter with my counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. I suggest that you may feel perfectly at ease. If you need time to consider, if you need time to refresh your recollection, we are happy to have you have that time.
Mrs. ABOWITZ. Thank you. (The witness confers with counsel.)
Mr. WOOD. Are you prepared now to give an answer ?
Mrs. ABowrrz. I think so.
Mr. WooD. All right.
Mrs. ABowrrz. I remember substantially giving that testimony, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Thank you very much. Now, do you recall also that it was suggested at that hearing that you were known in the Communist Party by a name other than your full name ?
Mrs. ABOwrrz. I claim my privilege under the fifth amendment and decline to answer that question.
Mr. TAVENNER. No, I think you have misunderstood me. I haven't asked you what your Communst Party name was. I asked you if you recall whether or not you were asked a question during that hearing regarding the use by you of a Communist Party name, other than your name.
Mrs. ABowrrz. Well, I will have to-rather, I desire to claim my privilege.
Mr. Woon. Well, do you?  
Mrs. AnowIrz. I beg your pardon?
Mr. WooD. Do you claim your privilege?
Mrs. ABoWITZ. Will you excuse me, please? I'm sorry.
Mr. WooD. You say you desire to do it. The question is whether or not you do claim your privilege.
Mrs. ABowITZ. Will you excuse me, please, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. WOOD. Yes. (The witness confers with counsel.)
Mrs. ABOWITZ. May I see the transcript, please, Mr. Tavenner? SMr. TAVENNER. .Yu mean in order to refresh your recollection?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. Mr. Tavenner, as I recall, when I was on the witness stand before the so-called Tenney committee, I believe I was there for a long time. Mr. Tenney and I got into a slight ruckus, and this went on for several hours. I was also quite excited at the time, and if you-you can't possibly think that testimony covering several hours is fresh in my mind at this point. Frankly, I don't have too clear a recollection of what the questions and answers were, because the whole thing developed into a rather personal feud between Mr. Tenney and me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, then, let me refresh your recollection from the record. The record of this hearing, the same hearing, at page 295, which is the page just following that which you saw before, there appears this: Q. Is it a fact or is it not that your Communist Party name was Margaret Pettos, P-e-t-t-o-s?-A. I am sorry, the name is unfamiliar to me. Q. That is not a fact, then?-A. I say, the name is not familiar to me. Q. Yes; but I have to get a categorical answer into the record, either affirmative or negative.-A. Oh, no. Will you hand the record to the witness that she may examine what I have read, and I will ask you now, after having heard what I read to you and after seeing it in the record, yourself, whether or not that refreshes your recollection. (Witness consults with counsel.) (Document was handed to witness.)
Mrs. ABowTrz. I'm sorry, Mr. Tavenner, and I want to say again that I don't want to be recalcitrant and I don't want to draw this thing out, but I frankly don't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Didn't you examine that page at the time I handed you the record the first time
Mrs. ABOWITZ. Oh- 
Mr. TAVENNER. And point out the reference that I have just made to you?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. No; I didn't. I am aMr. TAVENNER. Well, aside from that, does not the examination of that record and my having read it to you refresh your recollection about the question concerning your Communist Party name?
Mrs. ABOWIrrz. It is in thebook, Mr. Tavenner. I don't know. It might have-it possibly did happen. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. You don't know ? 
Mrs. ABowrrz. I don't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if it was correctly transcribed-that is, the question and the answer-was your answer correct and truthful?
Mrs. ABowITz. Mr. Chairman, I claim the privilege granted me under the fifth amendment and decline to answer that question.  1659 
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were asked the question as to whether or not you were a member of the Communist Party and you gave the answer, "No; I am not," were you telling the truth?
Mrs. ABowITz. The same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what is the answer?
Mrs. ABowITz. I claim my privilege under the fifth amendment \and refuse to answer the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you were asked the question, "Did you affili- ate with the Communist Party ?" and the reply is alleged to have been made, "No," if that reply was made, was it truthful?
Mrs. ABOwITZ. The same question, same answer.
Mr. TAVENNER. The committee, Mrs. Abowitz, is in possession of information that at a meeting of the Los Angeles County Communist Party Committee on October 26, 1945, there were various commis- sions appointed of the party. That is, commissions to represent the Los Angeles County Communist Party in various activities, and one of such commissions was that known as the political relations commission. The committee is in possession of information that Charles Gladstone, at that time a prominent labor official in the International Ladies' Garment Workers, was a member of that commission, and Philip M. Connelly, at that time executive secretary of the Los Angeles CIO Council but who left that office and then became editor of the Daily People's World, and Dorothy R. Healey, who was known as organizational secretary of the Los Angeles County Communist Party, a person by the name of William O'Neal, who had been a prominent leader in the Communist Party, having occupied a position on State committee of the Communist Party, and Nemmy Sparks, who at the time was chairman of the Los Angeles County Communist Party, were members, and that you were also a member of that commission. It would be extremely helpful to this committee, if you were a member of that commission, that you advise the committee regarding the part it played in the infiltration of the motion-picture industry in Hollywood
Mrs. ABowITz. Are youMr. TAVENNER. So I will ask you first whether or not you were a member of that commission.
Mrs. ABOWITZ. I decline to answer, Mr. Chairman, on the ground that the answer might tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were meetings of the political relations commis- sion of the Communist Party held in your home ?
Mrs. ABowITZ. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Abowitz, there has been testimony taken in the executive session before this committee, the testimony of Dr. Mendell Morton Krieger, in which he makes a reference to your alleged membership in the Communist Party, and I want to read that portion of it to you and obtain from you a statement as to whether or not it is true or false, or to have you make any explanation that you desire to make of it. These questions and answers were made and given in referring to Communist Party meetings and these questions were asked: How many individuals were in attendance at these meetings? Dr. KRIEGER. Offhand, it is hard for me to honestly answer you. 1660 This question was asked: Where did these meetings take place, do you recall? Dr. KRIuEER. Various houses. Do you recall the names of any of the people who owned the houses? Dr. KRIEGER. I recall one whose house we met at a few times and then there were a couple of others and I very honestly cannot recall their names at the present time. They didn't strike me as anything outstanding and I can't remember their names. What is the name of the one individual you do remember? Dr. KRIEGER. It was a physician by the name of Murray Abowitz. Was his wife Ellenore present? Dr. KRIEGER. That's correct.. You knew both Ellenore Abowitz and Murray Abowitz as members of the Communist Party? Dr. KRIEGER. I did. Do you recall who was chairman of this cell? Dr. KRIEGER. At one time Ellenore Abowitz was. Is that testimony true or is it false?
Mrs. ABowrrz. Mr. Chairman, I decline to answer the quesuon on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the year 1945-I mean to say in the year of 1944 or 1945, did you have any official position in a political party?
Mrs. ABowITz. (after conferring with her counsel). Mr. Chairman, I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. In permitting that answer to stand, I do not want to leave the inference that I consider the Communist Party a political party. I was not addressing my attention to that and possibly my question was misleading to you, so I will put my question in another way. I will put it more direct so that there can be no misunderstanding of it: Were you a member of the California State Central Committee of the Democratic Party?
Mrs. ABowITz. May I consult counsel, please?
Mr. WooD. Yes.
Mrs. ABowrrz (after conferring with her counsel). The difficulty that I am having here seems to be a good example of what this kind of investigation leads to, that I am puzzled about answering a ques- tion, the answer to which is a matter of public record. I thinkMr. TAVENNER. Maybe I can help you with that, if you will permit. It isn't my purpose to criticize your membership in any political party, but this committee will be interested in knowing whether or not while serving in such a capacity the influence of the Communist Party was brought to bear upon it and how it was done, if such be the fact. 
Mrs. ABowrrz. Mr. Tavenner, I don't know that that is a question at this point. I was about to say, I am frankly puzzled, but I really don't think I am. I have been sitting here for a few days and I have noticed a strange sort of thing developing here, and it would seem to me that the Democratic members of this committee would see that this is really a way of finally deciding that the Democratic State Central Committee of the State of California could be a most bad influence.
Mr. WooD. Let me at this point interpose this observation, that this is not a political committee. There are no politics in this committee and I hope that there won't ever be. With that information, I do hope that you will spare us any lecture of your views on what the duties of the members of the committee are, because I think they are  1661 all cognizant of them thoroughly. You were asked one simple question here and that is the question of your official connection with a certain -committee that has been designated. Will you answer that question or not ?
Mrs. ABowrrz. Are you asking me the question now ?
Mr. WOOD. Yes, I am asking you if you will answer the question that counsel has propounded to you.
Mrs. ABowrrz. Well, he answered one question and then he said he was going to clarify it or something, and he said something else. Will you please ask me the question again ?
Mr. WOOD. I think I can phrase it for you and couch it in the same language he did, and that is whether or not you were a member, and if so, in what position, of the California State Central Committee of the Democratic Party at the time indicated in the question.
Mrs. ABOWITZ. The secretary of State publishes a list every 2 years of the members of the State central committee.
Mr. WOOD. We are not concerned about that. We are asking you the direct question whether or not you were. I intend to answer the question, Mr. Wood.
Mr. WOOD. How's that?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. 
Mrs. ABowrrz. I intend to answer the question, Mr. Wood.
Mr. WooD. Let's do it without comment. Would you or not?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. It is a matter of public record that I was a.member, for a long time, of the State Democratic, Central Committee.
Mr. WOOD. At the time indicated in the question ?
Mr. TAVENNER. 1944 or 1945.
Mr. WOOD. 1944 or 1945?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. I believe so.
Mr. WooD. Is that your best recollection on the subject?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. I think so. 
Mr. TAVENNER. At the same time did you hold any position of employment ?
Mrs. ABOwrrz. Mr. Chairman, I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a secretary for the attorney general of the State of California at that time?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. May I consult counsel, please?
Mr. WOOD. Yes, ma'am.
Mrs. ABoWITZ (after conferring with her counsel). No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a secretary in the attorney general's office of the State of California at any time?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you employed by the attorney general of the State of California at any time?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. I beg your pardon? I'm sorry.
Mr. TAVENNER. I say, were you employed by the attorney general of the State of California at any time?
Mrs. ABowrrz. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know who the attorney general was for the year 1944
Mrs. ABOWITZ. 1944 ? It was Robert W. Kenny, my counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me; r didn't hear you.
Mrs. ABowrIz. I think it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't hear you. 1662 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mrs. Anowrrz. Am I not speaking loudly enough?
Mr. TA.\:NSER. I didn't hear you. Maybe it was my own fault. Mi-s. AnowITz. The attorney general in 1944, I am quite sure, was Robert W. Kenny, a Democrat, who is presently sitting at my left. He i, my counsel. IMr. TAVENNER. At the time that you served as a member of the California State Central Committee of the Democratic Party were any efforts made by the leadership of the Communist Party to influence your action in obtaining positions of appointment for people, or in any other way to influence the course of action of the committee?
Mrs. ABowITZ. I decline to answer that question on previously stated grounds. This is really-I will withdraw that. (The witness conferred with counsel.)
Mr. TAVENNER. You have indicatedMr. KENNY. May I say something? I received a note, I don't know who from in the audience, and it says, "From televiewers
Mr. WooD. Let me see the note, please.
Mr. KENNY. Yes. It shows the problem of counsel and the witness.
Mr. WOOD. In that circumstance I think counsel understands what precaution he should take about it.
Mr. KENNY. Yes; I understand. But it is unfortunate that the privity of consultation between attorney and client gets over the network.
Mr. WOOD. I agree with you partly about it.
Mr. KENNY. It may be due to my resonant voice. I will try to do the
Mr. WOOD. I know of no way the committee can control it. It is a matter that counsel and his client can control, if they decide to do so.
Mr. KENNY. We may have to consult either further away from the microphones or-I hate to give free legal advice over the air. I think it might violate a canon of ethics of the bar association.
Mr. WALTER. I am sure you wouldn't object to having people hear your advice.
Mr. KENNY. Not at all. Not at standard rates for lawyers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you ready, Mr. Chairman, to resume ?
Mr. WOOD. Proceed; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall having consulted John Howard Lawson regarding a suggested change in the bylaws of the constitution for the establishment of new bylaws and constitution for the Hollywood Democratic Committee ?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. Mr. Chairman, I decline to answer that question on previously stated grounds. (At this point Mr. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an active member in the work of the Hollywood Democratic Committee ?
Mrs. ABOWITZ. That organization, I gather from the last couple of days, is now an organization which is considered subversive by this committee. I decline to answer the question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you been connected in your various activities with the People's Educational Center?
Mrs. ABowrnz. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. There is another organization which I would like to ask you some questions about, one which we have observed has been  1663 very much in public view here in the last few days. It is the Southern California Chapter of the National Council of the Arts, Sciences and Professions. I have before me a letter which someone has sent in to the committee on the letterhead of that organization, signed by the executive director, Sarajo Lord, addressed to the doctors in the community. Do you know anything about the formulation and distribttion of that letter among the members of the medical profession?
Mrs. ABowITz. I decline to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know Sarajo Lord?
Mrs. AnowiTZ. I decline to answer that question on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I think we should introduce this letter in evidence. It is a letter from this presently existing chapter addressed to the doctors of the community, highly criticizing this committee, urging the members of the medical profession to follow closely the proceedings of the committee so that they can see for themselves its un-American, antidemocratic conduct, and in which it urges the members of the medical profession to write their protests to the chairman of this committee and to Representatives Jackson and Doyle who are the California Congressmen on this committee, and also to request financial and moral support in the fight to defend these men and women, and in so doing to protect rights of all.
Mr. WooD. I will permit its inclusion in the record. However, in that connection, I think it is appropriate to state that so far as the chairman has been advised up to this moment, no letter has been received by this committee from any doctor endorsing the sentiments set forth in that communication but, on the contrary, scores of letters and communications have been received by the committee from members of the medical profession in this vicinity denouncing the letter and advising the committee of their wholehearted support of this investigation. I think it is fair to the medical profession, generally, in this locality that the record disclose that fact. (The instrument in question was received by the chairman as Ellenore Abowitz' exhibit 1, and is as follows: ) DEAR DOCTOIR: The House Committee on Un-American Activities is coming to Los Angeles on September 17. Ordinarily, such an event would not bring forth a letter to you. However, in this instance, we feel you will be concerned, because the committee has subpenaed a large number of professional people of this city, including writers, actors, physicians, dentists, as well as others. This House committee has an infamous record. Its first chairman was the notorious Martin Dies, who initiated this committee's partisan-political smear technique. Its next chairman, J. Parnell Thomas, recently served a prison sentence for misuse of Government funds. The present chairman, Congressman Wood, reveals his contempt of Americanism with the observation that the threats and intimidations of the Ku Klux Klan are an old American custom. The committee, at the cost of over $1,000,000 to the American taxpayer, has concerned itself almost exclusively with intimidating, smearing by innuendo, and depriving of their livelihoods liberal-minded people whose views run counter to those of the committee. At no time has the professional competence and integrity of the subpenaed people been questioned. This committee is not an impartial investigating body. It has prejudged ideas, organizations, and people, as shown by its listing as subversive over 200 publications, and over 600 organizations without proper investigation or hearing. The committee has spent 4 years investigating Hollywood. As a result, many fine people have lost their jobs for refusal to cooperate in what they consider to be the destruction of our democratic rights. It is common knowledge that these actions have led to a deterioration of motion-picture content. Fear pervades 1 Retained in committee files. 1664 the entire industry-fear of acting in, or writing, or producing, or directing anything that in the remotest way might be considered "subversive" by this committee. In conducting its "investigations" this committee has consistently violated the first and fifth amendments to the Constitution. These amendments guarantee not only the right to speak, write, and think freely, but also the right to remain silent about one's beliefs. The fifth amendment, which provides that no person shall be compelled to be a witness against himself, is fundamental to our democracy. It was intended to protect the individual from being forced by the Government to reveal his political or religious views, and thus subject himself to persecution and prosecution, as indulged in by this committee. Any person who does not insist on this right before the committee would' actually be helping to open the way for political and religious persecutions and thus destroy the foundations of democracy. We urge you, therefore, to follow closely the proceedings of this committee, when it comes here, so that you may see for yourself its un-American, antidemocratic conduct We urge you to write your protests to the chairman, Representative Wood, House Office Building, Washington, D. C., and to Representatives Jackson and Doyle who are the California Congressmen on this committee. We welcome your financial and moral support in the fight to defend these men and women, and in so doing, to protect the rights of all Sincerely yours, Executive Director-Southern California Chapter of the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I think, Mr. Chairman, that here is a letter which. we have not had an opportunity to bring to your attention, which is of an official character from the medical profession, which I would like to read into the record.
Mr. WooD. Yes; I am familiar with it, but I will permit you to read it into the record, if you desire.
Mr. TAVENNER. This is a letter from J. M. de los Reyes, M. D., chairman, public relations, Los Angeles County Medical Association, and it reads as follows: It has been alleged by the Arts, Sciences, and Professions Council that a facet of the Communist investigation by the House Committee on Un-American Activities constitutes an attack against the medical profession. The Los Angeles County Medical Association, representing nearly 5,000 doctors of medicine which constitutes the majority of the doctors of medicine in the county of Los Angeles, welcomes any investigation of communism or Communist-front activities regardless of where they exist, and do not feel that this or similar investigations are now and can conceivably become an attack in any way upon the medical profession. The American Medical Association, the California Medical Association, and the Los Angeles County Medical Association, by their actions and loyalty oaths, have shown unequivocally their support of the American way of life. This letter is signed at the bottom of it: Approved, Paul D. Foster, secretary-treasurer, Los Angeles County Medical Association. Now, Mrs. Abowitz, at the time of the consideration of the sending of the letter with which the medical profession was circularized, information has come to the attention of the committee that a question arose within that organization-that is, the Southern California Chapter of National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions at a meeting on August 23, 1951, as to whether that letter should- be signed personally by Dr. Abowitz, Dr. Bigelman, Dr. Schoen, S-c-h-o-e-n, and that you charged Dr. Schoen with deviating from the policy of the organization with reference to the signing of that document by the three doctors. Is that correct?
Mrs. ABowITz. I decline to answer that question, Mr. Tavenner, on the same grounds.  1665 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I think that is all I desire to ask the witness.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter, I yield to you for any questions you have. WALTER. No questions. WOOD. Mr. Doyle? DOYLE. I don't think I have anything further. WOOD. Mr. Potter? POTTER. I have no questions. WooD. Any reason why this witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance on the committee?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. It is so ordered, and the committee will stand in recess for 1 hour and 15 minutes. (Whereupon, at the hour of 12:30 p. m. a recess was taken in the above hearings until the hour of 1:45 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (At the hour of 1: 50 p. m. of the same day, Thursday, September 20, 1951, at the same place, the same parties being present, the hearings were resumed.)
Mr. WOOD. Let us have order, please, and let the record disclose that the full subcommittee is present. Are you ready to proceed, Counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Whom will you call?
Mr. TAVENNER. Miss Marguerite Roberts.
Mr. ComN. May I respectfully request, Mr. Chairman, that there be no television, in accordance with the practice that has been followed this morning?
Mr. WOOD. Who are you, please
Mr. COHN. I am her counsel.
Mr. WOOD. I would rather have the witness make her own re- quest, if she will come forward.
Mr. CoHN. Thank you. Will you come forward?
Mr. WOOD. Will you be sworn, please? Raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear the evidence you give this subcommittee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?
Miss ROBERTS. I do.
Mr. WOOD. Have a seat. Do you object to testifying before tele- vision ?
Miss ROBERTS. Yes; I do.
Mr. Woon. Very well. Your wishes will be respected. Have a seat. The same injunction that has been invoked with respect to other witnesses who have objected is invoked here. Are you represented by counsel at this hearing? 
Miss ROBERTS. I am. 
Mr. WOOD. Will counsel please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. COHN. Sidney Cohn, New York State.
Mr. WooD. Do you object to being photographed?
Miss ROBERTS. I would rather not, butMr. WOOD. If you object I will ask the photographers to get their picture immediately and desist. 1666 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TA.VENNER (addressing photographers). Whatever pictures you desire to take, please take them. Are you ready, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. WOOD. Yes. Proceed now, and in the light of the wishes of the witness I will have to ask the photographers to refrain now from taking pictures.
Mr. TA\VENNER. I understand there is some difficulty about the amplifying system. The press cannot hear.
Mr. COHN. Will you tell us what you would like, Mr. Tavenner, ind we will try to accommodate you. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Miss ROBERTS. I will try to speak loudly.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you speak as though you are speaking to me without the aid of the apparatus before youMiss ROBERTS: All right, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe it will be all right. TESTIMONY OF MARGUERITE ROBERTS, ACCOMPANIED BY HER COUNSEL, SIDNEY COHN
