Mr. BECK. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I saw you late in the afternoon yesterday and I made the comment to you that I was saving you until this morning. I believe you replied that you preferred if I would save you until Christmas.
Mr. BECK. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, Christmas has come. where were you born ? 
Mr. Beck, when and 
Mr. BECK. In New York City, March 7,1907.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. BECK. In Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in Hollywood ?
Mr. BECK. Since 1936.
Mr. TAVENNER. Briefly, what has been your educational training or advantage 1817 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. BECK. Well, the public schools of New York, elementary and high school, a couple of years of high school, and then I went to work for a year or two and decided I wanted to complete my education. I went back to high school, found myself to be a little older than the other kids and quit. I went to prep school, morning, noon, and night, for about 6 or 7 months, and took college-entrance examinations at four or five New York colleges, all of which I passed, and then found myself in a position where economically I couldn't take advantage of these high marks I had made, so I didn't go to college. JMr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. BECK. I am a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly what your experience has been as a writer?
Mr. BECK. Well, prior to coming to Hollywood I had done some magazine stories, a couple of plays, sketches on Broadway. Then I decided I wanted to see what Hollywood was like and I came out here. Within a couple of weeks I went to work. I wrote a picture at RKO, the name of which I have fortunately forgotten. This was followed by two or three others, and then I was unemployed for a little bit, did a couple of original stories on my own, which I was fortunate enough in selling. From 1936 to about 1943 or 1944 or 1945, I was pretty consistently employed, either self-employed or by. the studios. From about 1945 to 1948 I decided I wanted to.pursue other pursuits, namely, the pursuit of happiness. I was unhappy in the studios. So I was not avail- able for pictures. That's about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What are some of the screen credits which you have received ?
Mr. BECK. I think my very first was a thing called There Goes My Girl. Another one was Everybody's Doing It. They didn't say what they were doing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice just a little bit?
Mr. BECK. The second was Everybody's Doing It. I worked on a picture called Destry Rides Again; got no credit, however. Then I wrote a picture called Hired Wife, with Rosalind Russell, and another one. Take a Letter, Darling, with Rosalind Russell again. This is my last credit, although subsequently I had worked on nu- merous scripts that were in distress, many of which I could not cure, but I managed to give them decent burials. That is about all of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Beck, information has come to the attention of the committee that during a part of your experience as a screen writer you were a member of the Communist Party. Is that correct?
Mr. BECK. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee when and under what circumstances you joined the Communist Party?
Mr. BECK. Well, I am a little vague about this myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. First, let me ask you, have you withdrawn from the Communist Party ?
Mr. BECK. Oh, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. About when?
Mr. BECK. This, again, I can't be too sure of. It was about 1946, possibly the early part of 1947. That is to the best of my memory. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE 
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. INDUSTRY 1819 Let us go back, then, to the period when you became affiliated with the Communist Party--Mr. BECK. Well, my first--- 
Mr. TAVENNER. And tell us how you were recruited into the party and the circumstances under which you became a member. 
Mr. BECK. Well, I think it was approximately in 1938 or possibly 1939, that I was asked to write a script, a radio show, and at this time Hitler and Chamberlain were playing footsie. I got a little angry at this and, ordinarily, I am known as a commy writer----Mr. TAVENNER. By "commy," what do you mean, comedy?
Mr. BECK. Yes; funny stuff.
Mr. TAVENNER. The abbreviation is so easily misunderstood. That is the reason I mentioned it.
Mr. BECK. Well, as I say, I was approached to write a sketch for a radio show, and I didn't feel in the mood for writing comedy at this time, so I wrote a sketch which was written out of anger, emotion, and a pretty damn good sketch, because in it I could say precisely what I felt about war. Well, this went on the air and it apparently met with a great deal of approval throughout the country, and I gotoh, any number of letters from people who liked what I had said. I also found myself being courted by certain people out here, which is not to say that prior to this time I hadn't known some of these people; very nice people, wonderful people. I admired them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you speak a little louder, please ? I heard you, but just speak a little louder.
Mr. BECK. Who saw that I was pretty articulate on paper, at least, and said that-well, they invited me-I can't say who they were at the time because there is a great deal of confusion in my mind right now and I would hate to say specifically who, what, when, where. They asked me to go to a cultural meeting. Well, I went to a cultural meeting. I can't remember where. A lot of people were there that I knew, a lot of people I didn't know, and there were speakers whom I don't remember, but what they had to say was precisely what I felt. Again, I can't tell you what it was that was said except at this particular time Hitler, Franco, Mussolini, all of this was being discussed wherever people sat down together. Well, I listened and I approved. I liked what was said, because it was articulated, possibly, to me much better than I cotild for myself. I became interested and I went to three or four of these. Now, I do not recall whether I joined the party at this time, but if I did, 1 know it was a very short duration because in and around this time something happened with Finland, I think, or something, at any rate and-well, I had argumentsMr. TAVENNER. Will you excuse me Will you sit farther forward ? I understand the press is unable to hear. Raise your voice a little as though you were speaking to me rather than speaking to the microphone.
Mr. BECK. I can't say just what it was at this time that brought me in and out, or whether I was in and then subsequently left, but I do know that in about 1943 I finally made a big decision and it was a cinch to recruit me. As a matter of fact, I sought membership in the Communist Party because I felt-Mr. TAVENNER. You did what? 1820 COMMUNISM 
Mr. BECK. IN MOTION-PICTURE I sought membership. INDUSTRY I felt that this was the only organization for me at the time. It seemed to be, well-it was active, and I wanted to be active, I wanted to do something positive. Unfortunately, however, I found that I had done better work as an individual, in my estimation, before I got into the party than during my party membership.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will want to ask you more about that a little later. Will you tell us a little more in detail the circumstances under which you became a member in 1943? I am not speaking now of the reasons which brought you into the party. You have apparenty explained that. But I mean where did you go to join the Communist Party, who did you contact, and any other information such as that? MIr. BECK. I didn't contact anybody. It is just that prior to this time there were some people, who they are I can't recall now-that is, I can recall a mass of people but I cannot select the individual who possibly was assigned to recruit me as a member. But I do recall this, that right around this time I saw a motion picture, I went downtown to see it, a picture called Professor Mamloch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. BECK. M-a-m-l-o-c-h, I think. this picture. And I was greatly moved by I remember coming out in the lobby, there were people discussing it, and one was the then widow of a friend of mine who had lost his life in the service. Somebody said, "How the hell anybody can stay out *ofthe party now I don't know." Well, I felt this way, too. It was suggested that I go to another one of these cultural meetings, and I -did. I found it was Dick Collins' house. It was at this meeting when the coffee and cake was served, along with the invitation to join the party, that I accepted both. I signed. From then on intermittently I was a party member. When I say "intermittently," I again have the memory of having dropped out of the party on two or three occasions, and whether I dropped out actually or just didn't function I can't say. I know that I was approached annually to reregister, even though I had not been at meetings. although I must say that I attended many, many meetings and tried very hard to be a good Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to a particular group or cell *ofthe party upon signing up at the home of Richard Collins?
Mr. BECK. Yes. I don't know how this came about exactly, but I do have a memory of seven or eight or nine people meeting at my house out in the valley, and possibly at one or two other homes, although 1 can't recall-I don't even remember who the people were because I never subsequently came into contact with them in a professional or social way. So I believe that these were just citizens in the valley who were just anxious to do a good job in the way of bettering the community in which they lived.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned later to a different group or cell ,of the party ?
Mr. BECK. I was.
Mr. T.AVENNER. Will you tell us about that? 
Mr. BECK. Well, I wonder if I couldn't make a request of the com- mittee at this point. It is simply this: Yesterday I heard Mr. Doyle offer another witness an alternative, saying he was interested only COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1821 that this witness knew about procedures of the Communist Party. Well, I must say that I know very little about it. But at the same time I have personal feelings about naming people, especially people who have already been named numerous times. Since 1 can only mention possibly six or seven or eight, I wonder if I could eliminate the mention of these names.
Mr. WALTER. I don't know why you hesitate mentioning the names -of people whose names have already been mentioned.
Mr. BECK. It's a personal feeling.
Mr. WALTER. Particularly in view of the fact that many of those people, despite the announcement that Mr. Wood made, giving them an opportunity to come in and make a statement, have failed to do so. The inference, of course, is that they are still active members of the Communist Party.
Mr. BECK. Well, this is a personal feeling.
Mr. WALTER. I understand. But if the names have been mentioned I don't see why the reluctance to mention them again. 
Mr. BECK. It is just that the majority of these people are very close and good friends of mine and I like them and I know very well, that is in my own mind, that these-are not people who could by the furthest stretch of the imagination be considered bomb throwers.
Mr. WALTER. Unfortunately, you have the attitude that a great many other Americans have. I will confess that when I first became a member of this committee, against my wishes, I used to see these slimy individuals parade before our committee one after another and I wondered which one of them would have the courage to even fire an air gun, much less throw a bomb. But, after all, that isn't the danger. You see, they are always behind somebody who resorts to force. They haven't the physical courage to do it themselves, but you see, they supply the impetus.
Mr. BECK. Well, it is my feeling, Mr. Walter, that these are not the people who get behind things but rather these are the people behind whom the others get, if you know what I mean. People like myself,
Mr. WALTER. Well-meaning, frustrated idealists, I suppose.
Mr. BECK. Well, let's let it go at that.
Mr. WALTER. I mean, I said that in a hurry without weighing it, but on reflection I think it is pretty good. Mr. Tavenner, is there any reason why this witness shouldMr. TAVENNER. No; I think the importance of giving a full state- ment of the names is a matter that should be insisted upon. There cannot be an investigation of communism without investigation of individuals. It is impossible.
Mr. WALTER. tioned? Do you know the names that are going to be men- 
Mr. TAVENNER. I am fairly certain I have heard the names. 
Mr. WALTER. Are these people whose cards we have or know the numbers of their cards? 
Mr. TAVENNER. It may be in some instances but--Mr. WALTER. Well, I don't see any harm. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. I doubt if that is correct.
Mr. WALTER. Proceed. 1S22 
Mr. BECK. Well, the later assignment-that is, the second group to which I was assigned had possibly a dozen or more people-I would say, rather, a dozen or so people, and the meetings-I can give a few names only. Jack Lawson.
Mr. W.ATER. Certainly the mention of Jack Lawson's name doesn't come as any surprise to anybody, does it?
Mr. BECK. I should imagine not. be taking the time of- This is why I felt that we would 
Mr. WALTER. I am sure that Mr. Lawson wouldn't be surprised that his name is mentioned. 
Mr. BECK. Well, hardly.
Mr. WALTER. Go ahead. 
Mr. BECK. Les Cole, Morton Grant. is just that I can't think of them. I don't want to hide now. It 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, you take your time and consider it, because I want you to be as accurate as you can.
Mr. ]BECK. Oh, Arnold Manoff.
Mr. TAVENNER. Arnold Manoff, you say?
Mr. BECK. Yes, and a lady who mentioned me, and I can do no less than mention her, Mrs. Wilson.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Elizabeth Wilson? 
Mr. BECK. That's right. How many have I mentioned so far ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with John Wexley ?
Mr. BECK. I was acquainted with him; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of that group ?
Mr. BECK. Well, I once went to his house. He was not a member of this group. I went to his house, and I think it was a fraction meet- ing of some sort rel ated to the Albert Maltz controversy.
Mr. TAVENNEr. Are there any others whose names you can now recall ? 
Mr. BECK. I think the very early group was presided over the first several meetings by Mrs. Ruthven.
Mr. TAVENNER. Madelaine Ruthven?
Mr. BECK. Madelaine, that's right. She came along the first several times because, to me, we were, I guess you would call us, novitiates, and none of us knew anything about the parliamentary rules of running a meeting, and there was an awful lot of jabber until she stepped in and kind of directed us in how to sit properly and discuss whatever we had to discuss. That's about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. If the names of any other persons occur to you whom you know to be members of the Communist Party, we would like that information.
Mr. BECK. Well, if they occur to me next week-if they should oc- cur to me I will write you a letter.
Mr. TAVENNER. If, during the course of your testimony, any ques- tion is asked which might refresh your recollectionMr. BECK. Oh, of course.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would also like for you to mention it.
Mr. BECK. Well, I am here to cooperate with this committee as much as I can.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am certain you are. Now, will you tell the com- mittee your experience as a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. BECK. Well, I think my first difficulty as a Communist was to become a Communist; not a member, but I mean. become a Communist.  INDUSTRY 1823 In order to do so one apparently has to educate himself. I sat with the books, I slept with the books, I ate with the books, and nothing happened. I read and read and read in an attempt to understand what it was all about, and I guess it was the style of the writing, some- thing I am not familar with. I couldn't absorb any, and I complained of this difficulty, I think, to Mr. Lawson, and he smiled sympa- thetically and he said, "Well, we all had that trouble. It takes a lot of application." Well, I applied myself some more with negative results. I got some of the gist of some of the things, and there was very little dialogue, and none of it was sparkling. May I say that? Well, it was difficult. I do remember that early in my membership I hadMr. TAVENNER. May I interrupt your testimonyMr. BECK. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. At this point? Is counsel for Mr. Sidney Buchman in the room ? A VOICE. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me.
Mr. BECK. Yes. I wish you would excuse me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, if you will proceed, please, with your state- ment. Well, almost one of my first difficulties was an attempt to understand why this was, and I accepted it as such, a legitimate party. I have reference to the Communist Party. (At this time Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room.)
Mr. BECK. Yes. 
Mr. BECK. I have reference to the Communist Party of America now. Why it was that I had-why it was that I was given a pseudo- nym. I don't have any constitution for conspiracy, and this, to me, was-well, it was childish. You know, it was-I guess you would call it kinderspiel, child playing.
Mr. TAVENNER. Speak a little louder.
Mr. BECK. Yes. I spoke of this once to Manoff and he smiled, too, about it, and he said, "But this is something you have really got to understand. When you become a thorough Marxist you realize that we are a minority party, and it may happen that one day the Repub- licans, who are the outs, will be the ins, and they are going to have to find somebody to pick on, and they can't pick on the Democrats because they are about as big as they are, so they will pick on us." Well, I accepted that and I went along with it. portant to me at the time. It wasn't too im- 
Mr. TAVENNFR. Did you have a party name?
Mr. BiCK. I guess I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall it?
Mr. BECK. No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.
Mr. BECK. Well, the boys decided to do something because of my constant complaints because of my constant inability to absorb, and this I think is rather amusing, at least it is to me now in retrospect. Manoff suggested, "Look, since it is so tough for you to read this stuff, possibly by association it would help you." So, by association he meant that I become the book carrier or literary director of my group. It evolved upon me to go to the book store, nick up the literature. bring it to the meetings, try to sell it. and I did this for quite a period. I must say that I upped sales considerably. 1824 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you able to get up sales through the handling of the ordinary and accepted type of Communist literature, or did you sandwich in something of a different character ?
Mr. BECK. You are stepping right on my jokes. I carried a lot of basic literature, v e referred to them as the heavy stuff and the light stuff. The heavy stuff was the basic Marxist literature. This I carried and I carried. I also carried best sellers and plays and other things that interested me. Now, I consider myself no different from an awful lot of other people and what interested me would certainly interest them. This stuff, the heavy stuff, didn't interest me and didn't interest them, either. They would push it aside and say, "Now, what have you got that we can read ?" And they bought the stuff that they could read. The other stuff I kept carrying to and from. I developed, I guess-all I developed was muscles. Now, that's about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked you a moment ago about your party name and possibly I can refresh your recollection. Do you recall the name of Joe Barton or Bert Benson ?
Mr. BECK. They sound like pretty good names. I don't see that they-I don't remember that they had any particular connection with me. I think I can explain this simply by saying, "This is your n:me," this is what they would tell us on the card, which I wouldn't look at.
Mr. TAVENNER. What functions did you perform in the Commu- nist Party other than that of carrying the literature?
Mr. BECK. None, except that I paid dues and I attended meetings. I also took-well, here you've got to understand that at this period I was trying to be a good citizen and there were many issues that would come up from time to time that the Communist Party per se would get behind. I remember the occasion of FEPC. Now, this I got behind. The antidiscrimination things, fair employment and stuff, I don't recall at the moment, but I know that I was in hearty accord with the objectives of these things and I went out and worked for them. I rang doorbells and solicited signatures to-what do you call them ? Peti- tions. I did well. I apparently was pretty persuasive. I also sold many subscriptions to the People's World. That's about my function. M;. ' TA.ENNER. Did you make any sizable contributions to sustain the People's World or the New Masses?
Mr. BECK. Well, I made a kind of semivoluntary contribution once, I remember. There was a meeting once, a party to raise funds for the New Masses. This was a magazine that was always in need of money. At this particular party. just before we got down to the business in: hand, I was asked, as some of the other people present were asked, by George WillnerMr. TAVENNER. George Willner?
Mr. BECK. Yes. Who was my then agent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he also known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. BECK. I would assume so. At this point, let me say that I feel I was the only member of the Communist Party in the United States from all the testimony that has been going around. I mean I can swear to myself being a member of the Communist Party. These people I saw merely at Communist Party meetings. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 18225 Willner was raising money, and he asked me before we sat down to the business at hand, and asked several other people, "Now, what can I put you down for so that I can hypo this thing along?" I said, "50 bucks." Well, he used me by saying, "Well-." Later on he said, "Beck offers 50. Is anybody going to match it?" Well, this was immediately matched. And then without my permission he says, "Now Beck tops that with a hundred." I guess I did. When this was met he said,. "Beck offers 150." Well, I kicked in and I later kicked him. That is the contribution I made to the New Masses.
Mr. TAVENNER. What dues or assessments did you pay to the Com- munist Party, and how were they assessed, on what basis, if you recall?
Mr. BECK. Well, from what I recall here, my memory has been refreshed, I don't know what the percentage was, but I know the actual dues were nominal and the assessments, if that is what they were, were a little bit higher, a small percentage of salary. If you were employed you paid this, if you were not employed, well, you paid the dues, you paid the minimum fee. I imagine that I averaged about $20 or $30 a month. That's about all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend any benefit parties for the New Masses at other times, so far as you recall?
Mr. BECK. I imagine I did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall where those benefit parties were held ?
Mr. BECK. No; I don't think I can. I mean I cannot differentiate now at this time with what was the New Masses party and what was the cultural and inculcation party, or what was just a plain social shindig.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Frank Tuttle ?
Mr. BZCK. I met him once at his house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you attend a Communist Party meeting at hishome ? 
Mr. BECK. Well, I wasMr. TAVENNER. Or was it a meeting that you attended at his home ?
Mr. BECK. It was some kind of a meeting. Whether it was a cultural or indoctrination meeting, or whatever, I don't know. I know I did attend a meeting there.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated you remained in the Communist Party until 1946.
Mr. BRCK. Yes; about that.
Mr. TAVENNER. About that time?
Mr. BECK. 1946 or 1947. I know I sold the house I was then living in in September 1947, and this was almost immediately after the boys got their invitation to attend this ball in Washington, and I know I was out by then.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state the circumstances which led up to, your termination of your Communist Party membership
Mr. BECK. Well, my final termination, I think, was preceded by a gradual disinclination to attend meetings. I think the first puzzlement, real puzzlement, I had was on the occasion, as I see here, of the Duclos letter, which I read and must confess I couldn't understand.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you speak a little louder, please %
Mr. BECK. I say, which I read and must confess I couldn't understand, inasmuch as just prior to this time we had been allies with Rus- 1826 INDUSTRY sia, and I thought we got along pretty damn well with Russians and Russia, and here was Mr. Duclos, whom I had never heard about be- fore, who wrote that this was impossible, that the United States and Russia could never get along in the same world. I differed with Mr. Duclos. That's about it. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing roomn)
Mr. BECK. This was my first differing with authority, shall I say ? Subsequently, the Maltz thing. Now, this was, to me, the first real breach. There has been testimony here about Maltz and his famous hrticle. Albert Maltz is, to me, a great writer, a fine man and possibly one of the best craftsmen in the industry. Mr. Maltz wrote an article which said, in effect, that the writer, the artist, cannot do his best work if he is proscribed; that art is a weapon it was hard to use in the writer's job and that he, for one, found he had to eschew it.
Mr. TAVENNER. He had to-- 
Mr. BECK. He had to discard it. Well, he had said in that pretty much what I had been feeling, only feeling but unable to articulate to myself, because during this period I found it difficult to write.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I, at this point, read to you just one or two sentences of what Mr. Maltz wrote ?
Mr. BECK. Well, it was a wonderful article. I would love to hear it again. Mir. TAVENNER (reading): I have come to believe that t3e accented is not a useful guide but a strat-jacket. I and viewed it in the works of others. In since become necessary for me to repudiate it un'derstnnding of art as a weapon have felt th's is in my own work order to write at all it has long and abandon it. Now, that is the position which you were referring to?
Mr. BECK. Yes, precisely.
Mr. TAVENNER. As expressing what you, yourself, believed?
Mr. BECK. Yes. It seemed to me that there were-you see, I placed myself in a difficult position. Prior to this time I had been writing comedy and doing rather well at it in that we lived well. I Then decided that, well, there is a war going on and I ought to be able to use my abilities as a writer for some better purpose than just comedy writing. Well, this is like any comic wanting to play Hamlet, I suppose, and they pretty soon become aware that they don't have the capability of it, but I stayed with it and got exactly nowhere, and I am happy to say that recently I have, in the past 3 years at any rate, gone back to writing comedy with, I think, rather good results.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you were describing this Maltz episode as another incidence of the basis for disaffection on your part with the Communist Prty- 
Mr. BECK. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. So will you continue.
Mr. BECK. Well, I was bothered and disturbed, and the reason I was bothered and disturbed-I mean, I approved of the article. I thought it was great, and I told this to Mr. Maltz, and he was very grateful for my approval, although this-or rather, he said, "Well, I'm glad you like it, George," and I said, "Not only I, but an awful lot of other fellows do, too." This, however, was not COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1827 approved by a lot of people whom I had never heard of. A big meeting was called, and I think this was the occasion when I met at that house. I suppose it is called a fraction meeting; writers only were asked to attend. This was about the only fraction meeting I ever attended. (At this time Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. BECK. Possibly another; I don't know. At this time some higher echelon people from downtown in the party and some people from New York came out for the express purpose of viscerating Mr. Maltz, and they did it. They chopped him up very finely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee just what happened in that proceeding. Was Mr. Sillen, from New York, one of those who came?
Mr. BECK. I wouldn't know Sillen if he walked in here. I remember the name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. BECK. You see, it is difficult for me to attach names to bodies.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, this was a meeting in whose home ?
Mr. BECK. This was that Wexley.
Mr. TAVENNER. Wexley?
Mr. BECK. Home. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The home of John Wexley ?
Mr. BECK. I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. The meeting was called for the purpose of straight- ening out Mr. Maltz ?
Mr. BECK. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, I wish you would tell the committee just what occurred and how it occurred in that meeting.
Mr. BECK. Well, my only recollection of this is that I got there at night; it was crowded by the time I got there. I managed to find a seat, and already somebody that I didn't know was telling Mr. MaltzMr. TAVENNER. Will you talk a little louder ?
Mr. BECK. Was telling Mr. Maltz how to write. Now, this I con- sider presumptuous in the extreme, coming from somebody I didn't know telling a man like Maltz how to write, whose writings I had approved of and enjoyed, and I never heard of this guy, I never read anything of his, so why he should set himself up as a critic, I couldn't understand. However, he pounded Mr. Maltz, and a lot of us who were sitting around there began to get pretty -annoyed with this. I know I expressed the feelings of several people when I said, "Who the hell are these people? Never heard of them. This is our party. This is our group." As far as I was concerned, I was-I felt that it was just the area in which I operated-that is, my groupand the several people that I knew outside of the group in the industry, and I couldn't see why people from New York and people from downtown would take it upon themselves to indoctrinate Mr. Maltz, to tell Mr. Maltz how he should write.
Mr. TAVENNER. By "people downtown and people in New York," are you referring to Communist Party functionaries on a higher level?
Mr. BECK. Yes, I would say so. Sure, sure.
Mr. WALTER. Who were they ? 8 1595-51-pt. 5-13 1828 INDUSTRY 
Mr. BECK. I don't know.
Mr. WALTER. Give the names. See if that refreshes his recollection. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Sam Sillen is one of those, according to our information, who came as a special representative of the Communist Party of the cultural section from New York to straighten out this situation. Just who the functionaries were from the Los Angeles County Communist Party organization I am unable to say.
Mr. BECK. Well, I am, too. I mean, I had never met these people before, and-well, I just didn't know them. I had no occasion to meet them later on, so that is
Mr. TAVENNER. Is there any further description you can give of the occurrences at that meeting?
Mr. BECK. Well, a lot of us tried to get the floor to defend Albert Maltz, but some of us couldn't. Others did. I know I left-I started to leave, at any rate, and I tripped over somebody who was asleep.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was that?
Mr. BECK. I think that was Leo Townsend, and he said, "What's going on?" And I said, "The same old"-four letter word. But that was about the gist of it, although I know that helped-immediately after this I made a trip with a very dear friend of mine down to Mexico to see the bullfights, and on the way down this man who, incidentally, is no Communist, was no Communist, never has been a Communist-I have many friends.who have never been Communists. I complained bitterly to this man and said, "What the hell has happened to our little party? They are pulling it apart." And I complained. The net result of this was that he said, he says, "Either get up off your-get up on your feet and holler." Well, I got up on my feet and I hollered, and everybody hollered with me. I mean, we all pretty much felt the same way, but nothing happened. I mean, some weeks later, in the same magazine, Maltz wrote what amounted to a retraction, a recantation of his first article, and this saddened me, and from here on I stopped going pretty much to meetings thereafter. I know I went to several to complain some more, you know, and wanting to find out what it was, what has broken us up here, you know.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you were unable to work under those conditions, conditions of having your thoughts in writing controlled by action of a higher level of the Communist Party?
Mr. BECK. Mr. Tavenner, nobody ever tried to control my thoughts, my writing. It is just that here I had seen an attempt. Well, I don't think they would have understood the kind of thing I write, so why would they try to control it. You know, why would they make an attempt at it ?
Mr. TAVENNER. But you resented that effort to control the thought and writing of others.
Mr. BECK. Well, I resent anybody or anything that tends to control anybody or anything. I think a fellow is entitled to free expression if he has the ability to write it down and say it, provided it is within the borders of good taste.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to talk to Mr. Maltz between the meeting in which he was severely condemned and the time that he published his retraction ?
Mr. BECK. Yes; I think I did, but purely on the condolence side, if you know what I mean. A fellow breaks his'leg and you bring him COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY noodle soup, or something, and say, "Gee, too bad." 1829 You know, this kind of thing. My attitude was one of sympathy, "Gee, that was a hell of a way they butchered you." You know, that kind of thing. "I would have gotten up, Albert, to say something in your defense but I couldn't get the floor," something like that. He understood, he knows. Albert I consider a very dear friend, I hope, and he considers me. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of John Sanford ?
Mr. BECK. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he in your group at any time ?
Mr. BECK. Well, if so, very intermittently. I remember seeing him at meetings.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dalton Trumbo? 
Mr. BECK. Dalton Trumbo, I think, came to my house once to buy a book. He looked at it and it didn't suit him and he didn't buy it. The only other times I saw him, I think, was at this-that is the only time I can fix as a party function was at this same fraction meeting of which I spoke earlier.
Mr. TAVENNER. Lou Harris?
Mr. BECK. I know Lou Harris used to come over to my house to swim. I had a pool then that made me rather popular. A lot of other people came to swim. Now, meetings, actual meetings-I don't want to damn him to a spot. I think, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Beck, an investigator of the committee talked to you about this matter and you voluntarily looked up the checks that you were able to find that had any connection whatever with the Communist Party and you have voluntarily presented those checks to us.
Mr. BECK. Well, voluntarily but with reluctance.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you three checks and I will ask you to examine them and state what they were for, please.
Mr. BECK. This was party dues, check for $100. 
Mr. TAVENNER. To whom is it payable?
Mr. BECK. Payable to cash.
Mr. TAVENNER. How is it endorsed?
Mr. BECK. Elizabeth Grant.
Mr. TAVENNER. Elizabeth Grant? Is she related to Morton Grant, a person you mentioned in the earlier part of your testimony ?
Mr. BECK. I believe she is still his wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. She was a member of the Communist Party, I assume, and collected dues from you?
Mr. BECK. Iwould assume so. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you proceed with the others?
Mr. BECK. Here are two checks, also to cash, one for $60, dated June 7,1944, and another for $65, dated September 29,1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say they are payable to cash ?
Mr. BECK. Payable to cash, both endorsed by Ann Froelich.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you pay those items to her as Communist Party dues? 
Mr. BECK. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the name "Froelich"?
Mr. BECK. F-r-o-e-l-i-c-h. 1830 
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to say that after the difficulty with Mr. Maltz, after the effort made by the Communist functionaries in New York and on the higher level here in Los Angeles County. that you ceased attendance at meetings.
Mr. BECK. Well, I wouldn't say that I ceased abruptly. There was a disinclination to attend them, there didn't seem to be any point for me any more because I justMr. TAVENNER. Were you active at all in the work of the party after that time?
Mr. BECK. Oh, no. I was never active. The actual activity that r engaged in was getting out with petitions and lugging, as I say, the books.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was it then that you consider that your con- nection with the Communist Party terminated?
Mr. BECK. Actually terminated, I know, before 1948, and cer- tainly-well, this I can fix because in 1948 I was approached again to come back in, and this was one invitation I could decline.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee the circumstances under which you were solicited to come back in.
Mr. BECK. I was home writing, working, and a fellow came to the door, I knew him, and he says, "Can I see you?" He had called before, I think. I am sure he would have. Very polite. And we got to talking and he said, "How about coming back in ?" I said, "No, thanks." He didn't press me particularly. He did, however, rather sadly comment, "Gee, it's getting tough, everybody is leaving."
Mr. TAVENNER. When was this? 
Mr. BECK. "And nothing will drag them back in." 1948 when I had been out for at least a year, I'm sure. This was in 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the person with whom you had that conversation ?
Mr. BECK. This was Morton Offner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mortimer Offner?
Mr. BECK. Mortimer Offner. He complained, as I say, it was very difficult to reregister people and couldn't understand, and finally decided, "Well, I'm not doing much good." This meeting ended with my not going, that is, not reregistering and I did, however, give him some money. This money was for either tickets to some theater party or something, for some cause or other. I don't know. But I gave him what money I had on me, which was about $4 or $6 or something. And that was, I think, the last time I saw the man. Since then there has been nobody that has ever come near me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has your break with the Communist Party been final and complete?
Mr. BECK. Well, I would say so, sure. I mean as far as I am concerned.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Have you any questions, Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Beck, you stated a few minutes ago that you went into the party, the Communist Party, because it was active, and because, as I understood it, it represented what you were interested in.
Mr. BECK. Well, let me say this, Mr. Doyle
Mr. DOYLE. At that time?  INDUSTRY 1831 
Mr. BECK. Yes, at that time. Earlier, I think even before I got into the Communist Party, I, like a lot of other people, were looking for a way to become instrumental and effective in the fight against fascism and nazism. At that time there was no organization other than, to my knowledge, the Communist Party, which was really doing a job.
Mr. DOYLE. Later on did you find that the Communist Party was- let me change that. Later on did you become disappointed in the lack of effectiveness of the Communist Party to fight what you were interested in fighting?
Mr. BECK. Well. let me put it this way, sir. During the period that I was a party member I felt that I was very ineffective. I am speaking now for myself, that at a period prior to my being a member I had done a couple of things that I thought were pretty effective as a citizen and as an individual. I felt, and I feel now, that is in retrospect I look at it, and I can say I was somewhat smothered, that I didn't function.
Mr. DOYLE. You don't mean that you as a Communist Party mem- ber, that your individual initiative was smothered?
Mr. BECK. No, sir; no, sir. It was just that-well, it took time to attend meetings, to discuss procedure, what we were going to do, what was next-what was the next big issue to be tackled. Whereas before that without discipline when I felt anything I would go to my typewriter and I would write it.
Mr. DOYLE. I notice you are here without counsel, without legal counsel. You stated a few minutes ago to our distinguished legal counsel, you said, "I am here to cooperate with the committee, Mr. Tavenner." 
Mr. Tavenner replied, "I am sure you are." What is there about the functioning of this committee of your United States Congress that gained for this committee your cooperation? What are we doing that got your desire to actively cooperate and come here without counsel and voluntarily, although possibly with some regrets, cooperate with us? What are we doing that you feel as an American citizen you could no longer do as a Communist ?
Mr. BECK. Well, I'll say that this committee, in my estimation, is slightly different from the previous committee, and I think the public relations job that you people have done has convinced a lot of people that you are not out to smear, whereas I am frank to say the previous committee did not care at all. I am sure that you gentlemen are concerned about the security of the country, just as I am. I was subpenaed. You are a legal group. A subpena is not an invitation that one can decline. That is why I am here. I would like very much to have this whole mess finally dropped where it should be dropped and forgotten, and the industry permitted to go its way, to resume normal functions. There is an awful lot of fear about. I, at this point, cannot-well, I feel no fear, although I can understand others feeling fear.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask you one more question ?
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Doyle, you have consumed 8 minutes. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I have used my time so I will transfer to my colleague.
Mr. JACKSON. During the discussion over the Maltz affair, did Mr. Maltz take the floor in his own behalf ? 1832 INDUSTRY 
Mr. BECK. I don't recall if he did. I imagine he would have, because Albert is not the sort that is going to be kicked around without-Mr. JACKSON. Well, don't you think that in light of his complete repudiation of his previous statement that he did prove, ultimately, to be the sort who could and would take directions as to his artistic endeavors ?
Mr. BECK. Well, I am not one to judge Maltz. I know that I respect him to this day. I like him.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, that is fine. I can understand your feelings, but I think the historical fact of his recantation must indicate that lhe did accept dictation from the Communist Party.
Mr. BECK. Well, one would assume that, of course.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you speak up?
Mr. BECK. He was given one of two alternatives, either recant or get out. He stayed in.
Mr. JACKSON. And recanted. Since your break with the Communist Party, have you come to the conclusion, personally, that the Communist Party is in the nature of an international organization, and that all of the national groups take their directives from the Soviet Union?
Mr. BECK. Actually, I wouldn't know about this, but from what is happening now, this is real and we are in a period of real and present danger and-because I don't like what has been going on. Nobody does. Finally, I should imagine that as Americans we must realize that we are Americans.
Mr. JACKSON. I hope there are an increasing number who will take your statement to heart and realize that many of us are convinced that today it is impossible to bear a dual allegiance to the Soviet Union and to the United States. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Potter, have you any questions?
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Beck, at the fraction meeting when Maltz was criticized for his article, was John Howard Lawson in attendance at that meeting?
Mr. BECK. Yes.
Mr. POTTER. Did John Howard Lawson take an active part in criticizing his fellow writer, Maltz, for his article?
Mr. BECK. I don't recall, actually, because I know that the three or four speakers that I heard were rather long-winded and were strangers to me.
Mr. POTTER. They were outsiders?
Mr. BECK. I would say so.
Mr. POTTER. You don't recall of any of the local writers that took an active part in criticizing Maltz for his article?
Mr. BECK. Not writers of my acquaintance, let me say. There are an awful lot of writers in this town that I don't know. I mean, I see them. I see them at guild meetings, and I don't know their names. There may have been a few of these, but I would say that the tenor, the temper of the people that I knew was all in favor of Maltz and resentful toward this group saying what they had to say.
Mr. PorrER. At the time of the Duclos letter, did it not seem strange to you that many of the people who, one day, were loud in their praise of Browder and the National Party, the following day were equally severe in their criticism? I don't know whether you experienced that type of turn-about or not.  
Mr. BECK. Well, I did. INDUSTRY 1833 After having been in two or three wordy altercations with people who are not Communists
Mr. TAVENNER. Please speak a little louder.
Mr. BECK. I used to find myself kind of in the middle of a sentence when the line would change. It wasn't really that bad. I mean, I say that, but it was difficult for me toMr. POTTER. Make your mental adjustments and keep them with the party line ?
Mr. BECK. Yes, which is-again, I want to say that I was not too concerned with party lines per se. What I was concerned about was the local picture. That is, here in town.
Mr. POTTER. But it must have impressed you that the group that you belonged to followed a definite party line. When the orders came down, they jumped. Maybe you didn't jump with them at the time, but your leaders of that group must have jumped. Maltz is an ex- ample which you have, yourself, used. 
Mr. BECK. Well, Maltz was never in my group. I remember there were other people in my group who were justMr. POTTER. I think that is true.
Mr. BECK. As puzzled as I was and didn't jump, as you say; who argued until-I don't. know-they came around. Why I don't know. I probably did, myself, without understanding, but with the feeling that, well, gee whiz, let's forget this and do the job that has to be done here, like-whatever it was-the Sleepy Lagoon case, or something like that. We were concerned primarily with local issues. That is, I was concerned, and I think the other people were, too.
Mr. POTTER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Beck, I can understand why you were disturbed about the Duclos letter. Didn't that letter prove to you that the real aims of the Soviet were confusion, disorder, misery, strife, and chaos, and that all of this braying about peace was just simply window dressing ?
Mr. BECK. Well, I don't know that the Duclos letter did this to me, because then we were just over a terrible war and we were all looking forward to the fruits of the peace and, as I say, I didn't know Mr. Duclos. I had never read any of his writings, and when I read this I was simply confused, because we had just been through a horrible war with Russia as our ally and, as far as I was concerned, they sure could sleep in the same bed, because we had done it under very trying circumstances. Certainly it could have been done under less trying circumstancs.
Mr. WALTER. It could have been done and would have been done if there was any desire on the part of the Soviet to live in peace with the rest of the world.
Mr. BECK. Well, certainly. I accept that.
Mr. WALTER. Anything further, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. 1N, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Beck, what you have done has not been pleasant. I appreciate fully how you feel about it, but it has been important. You have made a great contribution to the security of America. I would never go so far as to say that anybody who had ever been a member of the Communist Party was a great American. I don't know. I can't quite get up to that point, but I do think that you have 1834 INDUSTRY made as much a contribution, perhaps, as some troops in Korea or a bomber or a tank, and I am glad that you came here and testified, because people will know what you have said and that will give them the courage, not to come before this committee, but to, in their own way, take the steps that are necessary to be taken in order to eradicate this cancerous growth from our body politic. On behalf of the com- mittee I thank you very much.
Mr. BECK. Thank you, sir.
Mr. WALTER. The committee will take a 10-minute recess at this point. (A short recess was taken.) (All parties being present except Representative Clyde Doyle, the hearings were resumed.)
Mr. WALTER. The committee will be in order. Mr. Tavenner, who is your next witness?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Karl Tunberg.
Mr. WALTER. Will you come forward, please? 
Mr. Tunberg, will you raise your right hand, please. Do you swear that the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I do, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Sit down, please. TESTIMONY OF KARL TUNBERG
