Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Spokane, Wash.; March 11, 1907.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your occupation?
Mr. TUNBERG. I am a writer, a film writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any official position with the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I am president of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, during the course of the hearing in March or April in Washington, the chairman of the committee received a telegram from Mr. Tunberg, as president of the Screen Writers' Guild, in which he requested the privilege of appearing before the committee in light of many of the statements that had appeared regarding the Screen Writers' Guild during the course of the hearing, and a wire or letter was directed to Mr. Tunberg then giving him that privilege. I might say that-or I might ask the witness. It is true, is it not, that upon the beginning of our work in Washington that you furnished the committee with a complete copy of the minutes and records of the Screen Writers' Guild for study by the staff in its work in this investigation?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir; that is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. In any hearing involving communism it has been our practice to ask each witness whether or not they are now or have at any time been a member of the Communist Party. Without any inference whatever on the part of the committee, I want to ask you that question.
Mr. TUNBERG. No, sir, I am not now, I never have been. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1835 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your purpose, Mr. Tunberg, in desiring to appear before the committee?
Mr. TUNBERG. My guild was upset and worried over the possible misconception which might be incurred among the public regarding the guild, and that is why the executive board instructed me to offer to appear here. I want to say now that I appreciate your having me here. I think it is indicative of the fairness with which these hear- ings have been conducted in your desire to get at the truth. Inevitably with a parade of witnesses, seemingly a large number of letters, some are being identified as Communists, people are bound to get the conception that there are more Communists among Hollywood writers than there really are. I would like to point out that we have some 1,200 members in the Screen Writers' Guild and a very small fraction of these are Communists. I don't know what the exact percentage is but it is extremely small.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Tunberg, let me tell you at this point that this committee has always been perfectly willing to extend to anybody the privilege we have extended to you, and all that is necessary in order to appear before this committee to clarify the atmosphere if a person's name has been mentioned, is a request.
Mr. TUNBERG. I appreciate that.
Mr. WALTER. I renew that offer. If anybody's name has been mentioned in the course of these hearings, who feels that they have been hurt, and it is not the desire of this committee to hurt anybody, we are merely seeking the truth, all they need to do is request the opportunity to make a statement and they will be given that opportunity.
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, I can certainly testify to that, Mr. Chairman, and I do appreciate it. I would like to point out, if I may, that the complete lack of influence on our policy which the so-called left-wing group has had. I have statistics about that. Among the people who have been subpenaed to appear before this committee in the past hearings, I think there are only two who have been successful in guild elections. Now, there were several hundred people who have run for office in the guild, and of that number only two from this group have been successful, and only for board positions. So you can see that they are completely at the present time devoid of any influence on our guild policy. I don't mean to infer that we have never had a Communist problem. We have had one, a serious one, as has the whole Nation, the whole world has had a serious problem. But we are very proud of the way we dealt with this, that we were aware of it early. I think the entire motion-picture industry was, being as sensitive as it is to public opinion, was aware of it quite early. And the industry has certainly done at least as good a job as any other industry in getting rid of this left-wing, Communist influence. I know our guild has been a spearhead in that fight, and we did have a serious problem, but we knew what was happening. I am not speaking of myself now but the membership in the guild, the leadership in the guild knew what was happening as far back as 1946 and 1947. (Representative Clyde Doyle returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. WALTER. You say we had a problem, and I think we ought to start from that point. I think you ought to develop the problem that you had. 1836 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TuNBERG. I would like, if I could just continue for a moment, to say that in 1947, Mr. Emmet Lavery, who was then president of the guild, offered to turn over our records, our entire records to the FBI, so you know that at this time the administration of the guild was fighting, even then, the problem, but we did have this influence, and they exerted pressure on guild policy far beyond their numbers, just because of the apathy of the general membership. I know I was typical, a typical screen writer. 1 was busily engaged in writing, engaged in my professional work, and I paid my dues. ,I didn't pay much attention to what was happening in the guild, and I think this is true of a great many writers, and it was along about 1947 that I was first alerted to this danger. Allen Rivkin called me saying he had formed something called the All-Guild Committee to fight the Communist influence in the guild. The All-Guild Committee was composed of people who were violently anti-Communist and were aware of the danger. He asked me if I would run for office. He said, "If you are worried about this problem, as I am, you will run for office," and I agreed to.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was in what year?
Mr. TUNBERG. That was in 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me ask you a question which occurs to me at this point. You said your membership consisted of 1,200 ?
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right, approximately.
Mr. TAVENNER. And you stated that you had this problem of pressure brought upon your group by-I assume you mean by members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I assume they were. 1 must say here, I was never in their confidence. I wasn't in a position to know who was a Communist and who was not. All I know is the people who were against us, who seemed to be extreme left-wing influence.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, at that time did you have a bylaw of your organization which established the number of members which would constitute a quorum for the transaction of business ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, we did. It was 10 percent, I believe, at the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ten percent, and 10 percent of 1,200 mean that busi- ness could be conducted with a membership of-I mean, with 120 persons present?
Mr. TUNBERG. Ten percent of whatever the membership was at that date, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then should there be 61 persons present at that meeting who were members of the Communist Party, they could control the action, if there was a bare quorum ?
Mr. TUNBERG. That is actually what happened, Mr. Tavenner. We have really been through the mill on fighting these people, and they capitalized to the ultimate on the lethargy, on the apathy which kept people away from meetings. We found it very difficult to get people, who worked all day, to get out at night and sit around until midnight at meetings. They capitalized on that. They were disciplined, they were militant, they were vigorous. They came to a man to meetings and dominated them for awhile.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right. Now, in that connection, this investigation has disclosed, so far, I am told, 78-the number may not be exactly correct.
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes; that is approximately right. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1837 
Mr. TAVENNER. As far as our public hearings are concerned we have disclosed the fact that 78 writers in the Screen Writers' Guild were members of the Communist Party. Therefore, if you say that their membership turned out at these meetings and stayed there and outlasted other people by staying when the others had gone, they would be able to control any meeting that you had ?
Mr. TUNBERG. They could do this and, also, they were very clever.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is, any meeting where you had just a mere quorum present?
Mr. TUNBERG. Exactly. In many cases, they would attract other people to their banner, of course; liberals who didn't understand what was happening. They were very smart about espousing causes which could not be identified as communistic or political, and many times they would seduce genuine, honest liberals into voting their way, so in addition to the basic number, whatever it was, there were a few others who would vote with them on these occasions and, as you point out, they did outwait people. People would get tired and go home, and they would bring up the really important thing that was in their mind late in the evening when most of the members had gone home, but their hard core of members had remained.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did your organization take any steps to cor- rect the situation with reference to your 10 percent quorum?
Mr. TUNBERG. We did. We increased it to 20 percent. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that action taken ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I don't remember the exact date. I think it was in 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I think it is very important for you to explain these matters, because the problem that you were confronted with is the same problem that any organization is confronted with which has either been taken over by the Communist Party or deeply infiltrated by the Communist Party. It might apply to parent-teachers association or any other group of people, so I think it very important that you outline these matters fully.
Mr. WALTER. Before going into that I think it would be interesting for us to know who the members of the All-Guild Committee were in making this fight against communism. You have given the name of
Mr. Rivkin, I believe. Who were the other members?
Mr. TUNBERG. The members of this anti-Communist front?
Mr. WALTER. Yes. 
Mr. TUNBERG. They were prominently Emmet Lavery, who was president in the beginning who carried on this fight almost alone. Then he attracted men like Allen Rivkin, George Seaton, Valentine Davies-a great many people-Mary McCall, Irving Stone was one of the most vociferous members of the All-Guild Committee. Do you want more names?
Mr. WALTER. Yes. 
Mr. TUNBERG. Charles Brackett, who is president of the academy. Richard Breen.
Mr. JACKSON. Adele Buffington ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Adele Buffington, yes. Adele Buffington. Meehan was one.
Mr. JACKSON. Morrie Riskind ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Morrie Riskind-I don't recall that he was in the All-Guild. I believe he was a member of this group, although I don't 1838 INDUSTRY remember meeting him at the meetings when I came in. I assume he was. I have heard of him. He hasn't been very active. In fact, he resigned from the guild some time ago, but I believe that he was in this group very early before he resigned.
Mr. W'ALTER. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Martin Berkeley a member of that group?
Mr. TUNBERG. I heard that he was. Not to my personal knowledge, but I believe that he contributed to it and did help in this campaign, anti-Communist campaign. Did I mention Leonard Spiegelgass?
Mr. WALTER. NO. 
Mr. TUNBERG. He has been in the forefront of this fight, this antiCommunist fight, and still is. He is our vice president, but he has been through it for the last 4 or 5 years, to my knowledge. He came in with Emmet Lavery. He was one of the early fighters.
Mr. TAVENNER. We would like for you to give is the names of any persons that were probably omitted by you in your testimony here who were members of that organization.
Mr. TUNBERG. All right, I will endeavor to do so.
Mr. TAVENNER. I know it is rather difficult to recall a large group of names.
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes; and it was a large group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you spoke of the remedy that you adopted of increasing the quorum from 10 percent to 20 percent. operate ? How did that 
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, this forced more people to come out to meet- ings, or if they didn't come out it made the Communists unable to take any definitive action. Also, if people got tired and went home, it meant no official action or vote could be taken when there was not a quorum present. This is only one of the measures we took. The Communists, or, I should say, the left-wing influence in our guild had used the proxies. There is a provision in our constitution allowing proxy voting. We adopted that technique and used it against them. We went out and collected more proxies than they had. We conducted telephone campaigns before meetings, important meetings. We would-the board members, the members of the All-Guild Committee-would each take a certain number of names and call up people and impress upon them and urge them to be present at meetings. We tried to match their speakers. I mentioned before that they are extremely disciplined. They have extremely fine speakers on their side. They seem to go in for public speaking. They are polished orators. We had persons on our side whom we encouraged to talk, even when they weren't practiced orators, people that would be convincing by their sincerity and their honesty. We adopted-excuse me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us approach it this way. Will you tell the committee what were the principal strategies used by the Communists in endeavoring to control your meetings when you had important issues before you, and in doing that, try to describe what counteraction you took, if any, in opposition to the strategy used by them
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, as I say, we adopted their technique of proxies. We used them ourselves.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did they oppose at any time the use of proxies at your meetings?
Mr. TUNBERG. They have been consistently against this, ever since we got more proxies than they had, although they intended to use them.  INDUSTRY 1839 
Mr. TAVENNER. So it was a rule that apparently was not intended to work both ways?
Mr. TUNBERQ. That's right, exactly. They also physically, in the control of meetings, even the placement of these people was important. They had what we call the diamond formation. That is, they wouldn't all sit on the left.
Mr. TAVENNER. The diamond formation?
Mr. TUNBERG. The diamond formation.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by that ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I mean not concentrating on one side of the hall, the meeting hall, but to spread out in a diamond formation. This has a number of advantages for a minority party, which they were. One is if they want to applaud, or if they want to boo or hiss, it sounds as though twice as many people are doing it, because they are all over the hall rather than in one group. Now, it also means that the chairman, the presiding officer, has much more chance of recognizing them more frequently, because in trying to be fair the presiding officer will look around the hall and if they are in one place he won't recognize so many of them. But they would be staggered in this formation and it worked very well. Another physical technique was the use of first and second teams. They would putMr. TAVENNER. Wait a minute. Let's talk a little more about this diamond formation. Did it have the effect, also, of indicating that the strength, that the applause was coming from the audience as a whole rather than from just segments?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir; it. did have that effect. It had the effect of twice as much applause.
Mr. TAVENNER. So that it had the effect of stampedingMr. TUNBERG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Those who had not made up their minds on an issue ? 
Mr. TUNBERG. Exactly. It was very effective.
Mr. TAVENNER. They used that tactic in your meetings ?
Mr. TUNBERG. They still use it.
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you do to counteract that, if anything?
Mr. TUNBERG. The only way to defeat a thing like that is to be aware of it. I know in my terms as presiding officer, when I am aware of it I can always not fall for it. As I say, we have speakers on our side and I try to be fair and distribute it so that they don't get the floor too often or dominate the debate to the exclusion of others. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of the first and second terms. What do you mean by that?
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, simply that they never shoot their bolt too early. They were too clever for that. They would put in their second-line speakers, the least persuasive speakers, and let them ramble on and on and wear people out, drive them out of the hall, drive people out. Then when it was late in the evening and they really wanted to put over something important they would bring out the big guns, the really persuasive, polished orators. We learned by experience not to shoot our biggest guns at their second team, but let them talk themselves out and wait for them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any other technical or strategic princi- ples that they followed in attempting to control, or of the minority attempting to control the majority at the meeting ? 1840 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TUNBERO. Mr. Tavenner, I have jotted down several that have occurred to me. We adopted the practice of referring more important issues, especially constitutional issues, in the guild to a mail vote, where it couldn't be stampeded. As I say, we inaugurated a proxy campaign and gathered more proxies than they had. We adopted the practice of limiting our agenda at any membership meeting early in the meeting so they couldn't add to the agenda later on when people had gone home. I mentioned the telephone campaign, which was laborious but effective, because it did alert people inqividually. The biggest weapon, I think, in fighting them is exposure. If you are going to fight them with democratic methods, and we have done that, and we are proud of the fact that we have defeated them by democratic methods, the only thing is to expose them for what they are, not as liberals but as Communists. I may say that I think that is the essential value of these hearings right here today. I mean the first step in a democracy is to make people understand what the issues are, who the enemy is, and any honest exposure will do that. We try to do that.
Mr. WALTER. I suppose that now all of your organization has a voice in its affairs, you are charged with being an undemocratic organization. MIr. TUNBERG. We have from the.start. The people I mentioned, those in the All-Guild Committee, anyone who opposed them has been charged with being a reactionary from the very start. This is one of their techniques, too.
Mr. JACKSON. Not a Fascist, just simply a reactionary ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Fascist, reactionary.
Mr. POTrER. Warmonger?
Mr. TUNBERG. All the words have been used. Anybody who is against them is one of these things. I have been called that many times, although I fancy myself a liberal.
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to the first and second teams. Can you identify here the names of any of those that you refer to as the bigr guns of the first team who were accustomed to doing the speaking?
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, names familiar to all of us. John Howard Lawson was apparently the captain of the first team, and an extremely persuasive and polished speaker. Lester Cole was another; Albert Maltz, not only a brilliant writer but a brilliant speaker, a man much better at speaking than I, who can think on his feet, a quick, agile man. I have mentioned Lawson, Cole and Maltz. Trumbo was a splendid speaker, a member of their first team. Those are a few names that occur to me. The second team would be men like Eddie Huebsch, Mike Wilson, that type of person.
Mr. TAENNER. You spoke of the membership being 1,200, and we have through examination of your minutes and through the testi- mony of witnesses traced many of the issues involved in your meetings and the positions that different people took on those issues and particularly as to elections. I have asked the question here several times during these hearings as to whether different individuals supported Albert Maltz in the 1948 election, I think, or signed his petition. Now I would like to know a little about the method of election COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1841 of officers and how people become candidates and how campaigns are conducted for office.
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, Mr. Tavenner, according to the guild constitution, every year about this time our annual election which is usually November 15, a nominating committee is appointed by the board of directors. The constitution provides that no more than three members of the board of directors may be on this committee. The nominating committee then is charged with selecting candidates for the various offices and board positions. The constitution of the guild instructs this committee to endeavor to find at least two for each office, or more if possible. The nominating committee then makes its report to the board and if it is accepted, this ballot goes out to the membership. This is a mail vote, and it is amplified at the annual meeting on November 15 by a vote in the meeting. Proxies are eligible, of course, here, too.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are candidates for office left free to circularize the membership? 
Mr. TUNBERG. No, sir. Each year the then existing board deter- mines its policy on that. In some years in the past the board has decided that there will be an open membership meeting at which candidates can state their platforms. In recent years the board has discontinued this, feeling that it was a waste of time and money and the people knew pretty much where the nominees stood anyway. It has always been intermittently the practice to send out campaign statements through the guild office, but these statements would be written out by the candidates and then sent out to the membership by the guild. Even this practice, however, in the last year or so has been discontinued. (At this point Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I notice you said the letters would be sent out to the membership by the officials of the guild.
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Could not a candidate for office send his own cam- paign literature directly to the membership ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I don't see how that would be possible unless he had the official membership list of the guild. 'If he had that it would be illegal because we just don't give our membership list to anyone.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, no one is supposed to have the membership list?
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right. You can see the abuses that would be possible if this list were circularized. We just don't give it out. We never have. There have been attempts to authorize giving out the membership lists, we have never done it. Even in the case of charity drives we say to the charity, "We will handle the drive; we will circularize our members," and we do it. But we always do it through our office.
Mr. TAVENNER. If I were a member of your guild and would desire your address, for instance, and would telephone the guild headquarters, would I be furnished with your address?
Mr. TUNBERG. No, sir. You would be told that you could send your communication to the guild and they would forward it to me, or you would be told that I would be informed that you wanted to speak to 1842 me and then I could use my own judgment as to whether I should talk to you. ,ir. TAVENNER. That is another effective method by which you can assure the will of the majority?
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right. .[Mr. TAVEN NER. Isn't that correct?
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you say is the chief difficulty in success- fully fighting the efforts of an infiltration group to take over control of an organization? What is the chief problem that you have confronting you ?
Mr. TUNBERG. The chief problem, I think, is alerting the membership, alerting your citizens. Free speech, freedom of the press, free- dom of expression is only half of it. You have to be eternally vigilant. If we are going to have free speech you must be very sure that the majority understands the issues and who the people are that are running it.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, if the membership of your organization became apathetic, why, you have little chance of succeeding in fighting the inroads?
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right. Then the rights that we all prize become abused and perverted, I think. It is only when these rights are exercised by a vigilant majority that you can make a democracy work. I think we have done that.
Mr. TAVENNER. So that the membership stays home and fails to vote, fails to express its opinion, you are in a weakened position and the outcome is almost certain to be that of successful infiltration of your organization ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Exactly. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And that is true of any organization which the Communist Party would endeavor to infiltrate?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir; I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there any other devices which you have not named which are of importance in attempting to successfully combat an effort to infiltrate your organization, that you may not have mentioned ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I think--Mr. TAVENNER. I'm not certain that I heard all of what you said when you testified. Did you refer to a course of action to limit the time which any speaker may appear in support of a particular resolution? 
Mr. TUNBERG. No, sir, I didn't: Iam glad you mentioned it, be- cause that is another device that we use to prevent their dominating the debate. We sometimes would limit the debate-limit the time of a speaker. I think I did mention that they were pretty experienced parliamentarians and knew when to interrupt a speaker that was pretty effective on our point, on a point of order, and they resorted to this kind of tactics frequently.
Mr. TAVENNER. If you did not have some limitation on their right of appearance on a particular issue your meeting might be protracted indefinitely
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right.  INDUSTRY 1843 
Mr. TAVENNER. Information has come to our attention that on oc- casion your organization in order to revise the efforts of domination has stayed in session as late as 5 o'clock in the morning.
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that correct? 
Mr. TUNBERG. That's true. I don't remember the exact hour, but it was very early in the morning we have been in session several times.
Mr. TAVENNER. And it would only be because of the perseverance and loyalty of your members that would enable you to survive the attack?
Mr. TUNBERG. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you whether or not the mem- bers of the Communist Party-I will strike that question. I will ask you whether efforts have been made to obtain financial support from your organization for enterprises which you considered to be the projects of the Communist Party.
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, a few that I recall were attempts to get us interested in certain strikes in the industry, to contribute to strike funds. The strike in 1945, the left-wing element in the guild attempted to get us to give $10,000 in support of the CSU strike. They attempted to revitalize and reorganize the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization after 1945, when the need for it had gone. I think apparently their plan was to use it some way as a front organization, although it had not been started that way and, according to my recollection, has never functioned that way. They did, however. When it continued, we were supporting them along with other guilds and organizations, by a donation of $10,000 a year.
Mr. TAVENNER. That has been testified to by Mr. Richard Collins.
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes. There have been attempts to get us interested in the criminal proceedings of the so-called unfriendly 10, attempts to get the guild to furnish counsel for them. There have been informal attempts to get the members of the guild to support their wives and families. These are a few things that occur to me in attempts to get funds, all unsuccessful, may I say.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any other efforts ?
Mr. TUNBERG. These are the only attempts to get funds, that I recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you recall attempts to obtain action on the part of the guild which would aid in the promotion of any project of the Communist Party?
Mr. TUNBERG. There have been many such attempts, and I would like to say here, now, our records are still open to you. We are proud of them because we have defeated all of these attempts. We, some years ago, laid down the principle that this is a group dedicated to the interests of professional writers, that politics have no place in this, and we have defeated consistently their attempt to drag us into political matters. There have been many such attempts. As I say, the attempt to get us to put our resources at the disposal of the people who were cited for contempt is one example. The attempts to get us to go on their briefs before the Supreme CourtMr. TAVENNER. Yes. Now, tell us more about that.
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, both Mr. Cole and Mr. Lawson appeared be- fore our board on several occasions and attempted to get the guild 81595-51-pt. 5-14 1844 to endorse and sign, go on their brief before the Supreme Court, and in every instance we refused to do this. An example of that is the so-called Hugo Butler resolution, which is the resolution which was an attempt to get the guild to put its resources behind these people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Hugo Butler is one of those who has been subpenaed before the committee, and the committee is not aware of his whereabouts.
Mr. WALTER. Silent witness.
Mr. TAVENNER. Silent witness. Now, about when was the Hugo Butler resolution presented?
Mr. TUNBERG. I can tell you exactly here. here. January 13,1948. I have a few records 
Mr. TAVENNER. I may say that for the benefit of the record Mr. Hugo Black's name has been mentioned-Hugo Butler's name as well as Black's, but Black only in connection with his opinion, the opinion of the Supreme Court; but that Hugo Butler's name has been mentioned by witnesses during the course of the testimony, and that Communist Party meetings were alleged to have taken place at his home. Now, will you give us the date of the
Mr. TUNBERG. January 13, 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. NOw, you have described these efforts that have been made. Are there others that you could mention ? 
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, there are many efforts to-as I say, both Cole and Lawson appeared before the board to get us to go on their brief to the Supreme Court. I think there were two or three such attempts. There was a series of agitations in favor of. these people, and some of them were rather appealing on the basis of charity and humane qualities. I mean, the one, for instance, to support their families is one difficult to deny.
Mr. TAVENNER. Those are all efforts made within your organization by persons who are members of it?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, have there been any efforts from the outside- that is, from persons who were members of your organization to control its policy or its action on projects or enterprises which you identified as being projects of the Communist Party'?
Mr. TUNBERG. Mr. Tavenner, if I understand your question cor- rectly, in our study of Commuist efforts to infiltrate unions and guilds, we find that if they can't infiltrate, if they can't control the guild or union, they attempt to destroy it and discredit it. Now, I think recently, since they were unsuccessful in our guild, they have done all they can do to discredit our guild. I think right now, for instance, they would be very happy if the public impression was that we were honeycombed with Communists which, as you know and I know, is not true, but it would discredit that they couldn't control and, therefore, they would deny the use of this guild to us. They have done this: They have attacked us through other guilds. There was one case that comes to mind, which is the case of the Radio Writers' Guild. We recently were in negotiations for a minimum basic agreement with the major motion-picture studios, and one of the provisions for which we were negotiating was a hundred percent guild shop. According to the Taft-Hartley law, in order to negotiate for a hundred percent shop, you must have an authorizing election among the workers in the field. We applied for such an election. Now, also, according to COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1845 the Taft-Hartley law, the officials of a guild or union must sign nonCommunist affidavits. We have always done this as a matter of course. The parent organization that we are affiliated with, the Authors' League of America, the parent organization, had done so, too, and in a ruling, the NLRB Board decided the members of the Authors' League Council were officers of the Authors' League within the meaning of the law. Therefore, they, too, would have to sign non-Communist affidavits. This was a chance to attack us and to discredit us, and the 12 delegates in the Radio Writers' Guild refused to sign the non-Communist affidavits, and the effect of this was to deny us the election, the NLRB election. Later this ruling was reversed, but it is significant that the 12 refusals to sign the non-Communist affidavits came fromI believe 12 came from the Radio Writers' Group. I have always interpreted this-this is my personal opinion-as an attack based at least partly on political reasons. There was a recent such attack at a convention in New York at the Authors' League. Again the Radio Writers came to the attack and undertook to deny us television jurisdiction, but it is a campaign from within, which you mention, to attack this guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have mentioned the requirements of the TaftHartley Act with regard to loyalty affidavits, and you stated that you complied with the provisions of that act ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any difficulty in obtaining compliance by your organization, or any particular issue raised about it?
Mr. TUNBERG. No; there was never any difference about the TaftHartley affidavits. You see, these are required only of the officers of the guild- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. TUNBERG. And during my experience as an officer, within the past 3 years, we have never had any difficulty with this.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it at any time necessary to pass a resolution on the subject of executing a loyalty affidavit, a non-Communist affidavit?
Mr. TUNBERG. There was at one time, recently, about a year agoI think a little over a year ago-considerable feeling in the guild that the entire membership should sign such an affidavit in the form of a loyalty oath. This came before the membership at a meeting one night, rather a sparsely attended meeting, and there was a filibuster against this thing. A great many people spoke against it from this left-wing group, and when it finally seemed this resolution would come up for a vote, they called for a quorum and then left the room. That is, the left-wing group left the hall as a body, so we had no quorum and could not vote.
Mr. WAITER. Wait a minute. Do I understand that the very people who raised the question of a quorum left a meeting in order to prevent the counting of a quorum ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Xes, sir. This was my impression. I couldn't prove this, but it seemed to me, from looking down from the dais that that is exactly what was happening, and we had no quorum a moment later.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did that trick occur on any other occasion? 1846 
Mr. TUNBERG. Not to my memory. This was a new one. I thought I knew them all. but this was a new one. 
Mr. TAVENNER. TO break the quorum by leaving the meeting and then immediately come back?
Mr. TUNBERG. Then come back and speak some more; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.
Mr. TUNBERG. Now, then, subsequently there was a resolution brought before the board. There was a debate about this. It was thought that the board should take a voluntary non-Communistsign a voluntary non-Communist affidavit, and the board did this unanimously, even though not required by the Taft-Hartley law to. do so. The board has signed such a non-Communist affidavit, every member of the board.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, was there any particular difficulty or dispute over the voluntary signing of the affidavit by members of the board?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, Mr. Tavenner, there was. heated debate about this. There was a very Some people objected on principle to a loyalty oath as a contingency, as a qualification for membership in the guild on purely-the grounds was that this was a professional writers' organization, and, as such, should never be a qualification for membership. Others objected on the ground that it wouldn't do any good, that a dyed-in-the-wool Communist would sign it very happily and go on about his way, and that it would not have the desired effect of pushing out the Co-mmunists. So there was, I think, an honest difference of opinion about this among several of our members.
Mr. TAVENNER. DO you know the circumstances surrounding the execution of it by Carl Foreman ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir. We debated this thing for some time. As, I say, there were some people who felt that the signing of such a voluntary oath would be useless. He was one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he sign it when the others signed it?
Mr. TUNBERG. NO. No, he finally-he finally said that he would sign it. We then lined up to sign it, and when it came his turn he said he wanted to study it further and would take it home with him. He did, and, subsequently, sent it in by mail with his signature on it.
Mr. WALTER. It couldn't have been sworn to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was there a separate affidavit-I mean, sep- arate oath given to him, if this were an affidavit and signed before a notary public?
Mr. TUNBERG. Perhaps I have given the wrong impression there. These were voluntary statements and were not signed. They were not notarized.
Mr. TAVENNER. I'm sorry.
Mr. TUNBERG. In the case of the Taft-Hartley affidavits they were..
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Go on.
Mr. TAVENNER. These were just simply voluntary statements.
Mr. TAVENNER. You stated in the earlier part of your testimony that to your knowledge there had been only two persons, within the period of time, and I do not recall what period of timeMr. TUNBERG. A period of- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were officials of the organization and had been members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TUNBERG. No, that isn't the impression I meant to give. I don't believe that is what I said. I said only two people, from among those  INDUSTRY 1847 -who have been subpenaed, because I have no way of knowing whether they are members of the party or not.
Mr. TAVENNER. I see. I understand. Well, who were the two persons who have been subpenaed here who have been officials of your organization?
Mr. TUNBERG. Harold Buchman was a member of the board in, I believe, 1948, and Carl Foreman, who is a member of the present board.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether Sidney Buchman had ever been an official of your organization ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Sidney Buchman was president, I believe, in 1940 -or 1941.
Mr. TAVENNER. William Pomerance?
Mr. TUNBERG. William Pomerance was executive secretary some time ago. I think it was about that period. I think he was executive secretary around 1944, 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. And Charles Page ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I believe he was executive secretary before Mr. Pom,erance.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Ann Roth Morgan ever at any time hold an official position with the guild ? 
Mr. TUNBERG. After we got rid of Mr. Pomerance, she was executive :secretary for a short time. 
Mr. WALTER. The committee will stand in recess until 2 o'clock. (Whereupon an adjournment was taken in the above hearings until the hour of 2 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (Whereupon at the hour of 2: 10 p. m. of the same day, the proceedings were resumed, the same parties being present with the exception of Representative Charles E. Potter.)
Mr. WALTER. The committee will come to order.
Mr. Tunberg. TESTIMONY OF KARL TUNBERG-Resumed
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir. I'm sorry that I couldn't remember a more complete list this morning but I have a more complete list here now, and I would like to give it to you because I think that anyone who has been in the forefront of this anti-Communist fight should be publicly recognized. May I read it now ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. TUNBERG. This is a rather complete list-not a complete list but a rather full list of those who fought with this committee. Sheridan Gibney, F. Hugh Herbert-Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last names, please.
Mr. TUNBERG. Sheridan Gibney, the last name is G-i-b-n-e-y; F. Hugh Herbert, H-e-r-Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice a little more. 1848 
Mr. TUNBERG. F. Hugh Herbert, Herbert H-e-r-b-e-r-t; George Seaton. S-e-a-t-o-n; Dwight Taylor, T-a-y-1-o-r; Arthur Sheekman, S-h-e-e-k-m-a-n; Harry Tugend, T-u-g-e-n-d; Robert Ardrey, A-r-dr-e-y; Art Arthur, A-r-t-h-u-r; Stephen Morehouse Avery, deceased, A-v-e-r-y; Claude Binyon, B-i-n-y-o-n; Frank Cavett, C-a-v-e-t-t; Olive Cooper, C-o-o-p-e-r; Valentine Davies, D-a-v-iMr. TAVENNER. Not quite so rapidly.
Mr. TUNBERG. Valentine Davies was the last thing, D-a-v-i-e-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the individual before Mr. Davies ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Olive Cooper, C-o-o-p-e-r. After Mr. Davies, Richard English, E-n-g-l-i-s-h; Everett Freeman, F-r-e-e-m-a-n; Paul Gangelin, G-a-n-g-e-l-i-n; Dorothy Bennett Hannah, H-a-n-n-a-h; Milton Krims, K-r-i-m-s; Ernest Pascal, P-a-s-c-a-l; Leonard Spiegelgass, S-p-i-e-g-e-l-g-a-s-s; Brenda Weisberg, W-e-i-s-b-e-r-g; Robert Arthur, A-r-t-h-u-r; Graham Baker, B-a-k-e-r; Earl Baldwin, B-a-l-d-w-i-n; Sy Bartlett, B-a-r-t-l-e-t-t; D. D. Beauchamp, B-e-a-uc-h-a-m-p; Edmund Beloin, B-e-l-o-i-n; Charles Bennett, B-e-nn-e-t-t; Charles Brackett, B-r-a-c-k-e-t-t; Houston Branch, B-r-a-n-c-h; George Bricker, B-r-i-c-k-e-r; Oscar Brodney, B-r-o-dn-e-y; Adele Buffington, B-u-f-f-i-n-g-t-o-n; Betty Burbridge, B-u-rb-r-i-d-g-e; John K. Butler, B-u-t-l-e-r; James M. Cain, C-a-i-n; Roy Chanslor, C-h-a-n-s-l-o-r; Lewis Foster, F-o-s-t-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the first name?
Mr. TUNBERG. L-e-w-i-s Foster. Frederick Frank, F-r-a-n-k; Bert Granet, G-r-a-n-e-t; Kenneth Gamet, G-a-m-e-t; Howard J. Green,. G-r-e-e-n; Norman Hall, H-a-l-l; Edmund Hartmann, E-d-m-u-n-d H-a-r-t-m-a-n-n; Agnes Johnson, J-o-h-n-s-o-n; Sylvia Fine Kaye, K-a-y-e; John Larkin, L-a-r-k-i-n; Jesse Lasky, Jr., L-a-s-k-y Emmet Lavery, L-a-v-e-r-y; Alan LeMay, L-e-M-a-y; Stephen Longstreet, L-o-n-g-s-t-r-e-e-t; Barre Lyndon, B-a-r-r-e, Lyndon L-y-nd-o-n; Mary McCall, M-c-C-a-l-1; Elizabeth Meehan, M-e-e-h-a-n; Winston Miller, M-i-l-l-e-r; Peter Milne, M-i-l-n-e; Dudley Nichols,. N-i-c-h-o-l-s; Walter Reilly, R-e-i-l-l-y; Allen Rivkin, R-i-v-k-i-n; Bradford Ropes, R-o-p-e-s; Leo Rosten, R-o-s-t-e-n; Barney Sarecky, S-a-r-e-c-k-y; Tom Seller, S-e-l-l-e-r; Irving Stone, S-t-o-n-e; Wanda Tuchock, W-a-n-d-a, Tuchock T-u-c-h-o-c-k; John Twist, T-w-i-s-t; M. Coates Webster, W-e-b-s-t-er, M. C-o-a-t-e-s; Clarence U. Young, Y-o-u-n-g. That is not the complete list, but it is a rather full one.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Tunberg, in the course of the conduct of the business of your guild, are you called upon, or is the guild called upon by the Defense Department to furnish personnel to aid in defense projects of one kind or another?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir. We are called on by the Defense Department and by the State Department to furnish writers for documentary films and for Government films and for training films.
Mr. TAVENNER. To furnish writers for documentary films?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that include also training films ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes; it has in the past.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just what do you mean by training films? COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1849 
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, film used by the Air Force, by the Army. I am not acquainted with their recent demands, but we have in the past supplied them writers to write these films.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, persons who are selected for work of that kind, from the very character of their work, must have access to various items of the military equipment, radar, fire control, and so forth ?
Mr. TUNBERG. That is true.
Mr.TAVENNER. And the photographs of those articles?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is there any safeguard resorted to in the selection of the individuals who are to be furnished to the Defense Department for those important projects?
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, informally, Mr. Tavenner. We, of course, are very careful about whom we suggest, but over and beyond that, once we give a list of available writers to such departments, they are then carefully screened, of course.
Mr. TAVENNER. They are screened by the Defense Department?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir. They must be cleared. Their names, those available for such work, must submit their names some time in advance so that the screening which takes some time-it is a very rigorous screening-can take place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly I misunderstood you. Did you mean they are selected for the positions and then screened later ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do they enter upon the performance of their duties, and then are later screened ?
Mr. TUNBERG. No, sir. They don't enter upon their duties until they have been cleared by the Government so-called loyalty check, I believe it is, but it is quite an exhaustive check.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe those are all the questions that I desire to ask you. If there is any further statement that you desire to make about the activity of the guildMr. TUNBERG. There are a number of things I would like to say
Mr. Tavenner. OneMr. TAVENNER. Possibly you should respond to the committee members.
Mr. TUNBERG. I wanted to correct an error in my testimony this morning first. I believe I said that Ann Roth had been executive secretary of the guild after Mr. Pomerance. I was wrong. She preceded Mr. Pomerance. In the interests of accuracy I wanted to mention that. I also left out a few tactics that we have used against these people. Perhaps you would care to ask me questions first.
Mr. WALTER. NO, you proceed with your statement.
Mr. TUNBERG. One thing I neglected to mention, in our fighting the Communists, we restricted the membership meetings to members only. We found that the leftist elements would bring other people. They would bring their wives and their friends in order to createeven though they couldn't vote, to create the maximum uproar. One phase of our defense against this was to limit meetings only to qualified members. We also carefully screened our staff. You see, in working on a full-time basis for the guild we have a rather large staff of people and we found that we had to be more careful about whom we employed. There had been in the past several leaks in the office. We 1850 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY think that these leaks have been stopped forever. The leftist elements-you have heard testimony about fraction meetings, cells. Information did come to us of these caucus meetings which they would have before every important membership meeting, to organize strategy. We adopted the same technique. We had our own caucus meetings to combat this. Another thing, in a more general way I would like to say, is that it took a coalition to defeat them. I think this might be important to anyone else who has a similar problem. As I said, the guild, the 1,200 members of the guild, represent all shades of opinion, but it took a forgttting of individual differences. We all had to unite against this one element, whether Republicans, Democrats, what they were, and it finally took a strong coalition of people to defeat this, and I think this is true in all cases.
Mr. WALTER. Any questions, Mr. Doyle? 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Tunberg, under Public Law 601, by virtue of which this subcommittee of the main committee is here from Washington, Congress has directed that we not only look into the subject of the diffusion within the United States of subversive programs which may emanate from foreign countries or domestically, but we are expressly charged by the text of Public Law 601 to look into all other questionsand I am quoting-"in relation thereto that would aid Congress in any necessary remedial legislation." (At this time Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. Now, therefore, I needn't say to you further that one of the heavier responsibilities of this committee, which you are cooperating with and helping-and we appreciate it-is that we shall think of these hearings objectively and report back to the United States Congress any additional legislation or remedial legislation which will help meet the problem of subversive influences and propaganda in our country. Have you any suggestion or advice to this committee as to what we might recommend to the United States Congress in legislation ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, I have. It is my personal opinion that the Com- munist Party should be outlawed. I think it should be illegal.
Mr. DOYLE. Why ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I think any party that has to meet in secret, in fraction and cell meetings, any party where people are afraid to say that they are members of it, where they have to resort to false names and where their aims are so manifestly un-American, should be illegal. I don't see the reason for quibbling over this, myself. There may be reasons that I don't know about. I don't know what they are. 
Mr. DOYLE. Well, the main objection we hear given is that if you outlaw the Communist Party, no matter if they do on the face of it seem to be meeting secretly, you will drive them further underground. Is that an appraisal that you agree with or not? 
Mr. TUNBERG. No, I don't think you could drive them further underground. We had to dig and dig and dig to find them as it has been. They are underground anyway.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, not far enough, apparently.
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, I sometimes wonder, sir, if-I know you have done a great job of uncovering a great many of them; and, as I said earlier, I suppose yours is doubly important, especially in the demo- COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1851 cratic system like ours, because that is the only way. Only after exposure can we know how to vote and how to govern ourselves, but I wonder if we discovered them all.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, do you feel from what you know, from your wide experience, that there is an element within the Communist Party that is definitely interested in the overturning and overthrowing, the ruining utterly, of our form of Government?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir; I do believe that.
Mr. DOYLE. Why do you believe that?
Mr. TUNBERG. On the basis of what I have heard in conversations that I have had with people I have suspected of being members of the party. That's about it. But I have heard enough-I have talked enough with these people to mistrust their motives and to mistrust their loyalty, may I say.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you any other suggestion for us in the field of legislation ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, this is a rather vague suggestion, but if some- thing could be done to identify people-when you vote for a Republican, you know what he is. If you vote for a Democrat, you know what he is; but you never know what a Communist is. If the party is not outlawed, at least there should be some way of identifying him, letting people know what they are voting for and what these people stand for. I don't know how you could do this, but it is lack of knowledge that is the great danger. I am sure that the majority of people in this country are against this sort of thing, the overwhelming majority, but a lot of them don't know about it. A lot of liberals are confused, confusing what is a liberal issue with something backed by a more subversive group.
Mr. DOYLE. One more question. Do I understand from your answer just a minute ago to me that, based on your wide experience in the Los Angeles area, you are under the conviction that there are men and women in the Communist Party who would join in the forceful revolu- tion or revolution by the use of force, if need be, to accomplish the overthrow of the American system of government ? 
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir. Mr. Doyle, I believe, number one, from what I have read-I have studied communism a little bit; I have studied Marxism in college, and I have talked with very few but with people that I had reason to think knew all about this movement. As I said earlier, I distrust them. I distrust their motives. I don't think they are really Americans.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. (At this time Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. WALTER. Thank you very much, Mr. Tunberg.
Mr. TUNBERG. Mr. Chairman, there is one further--Mr. WALTER. Excuse me. Mr. Jackson, have you any further questions ?
Mr. JACKSON. A couple of questions. With further reference to the Writers' Mobilization, the committee has had in the past members of the Screen Writers' Guild who, the evidence before the committee indicated, did work for the United States Government on some of these writing projects who have refused to answer the questions of the committee not only as to whether or not they were members of the Writers' Mobilization but the nature of the work upon which they were engaged, 1852  -INDUSTRY refused to answer any questions in that connection. This fact, when taken with relation to the other evidence which was available with respect to the individual writers, would seem to indicate that some of the assignments were given to people who, if not actual members of the Communist Party, were certainly sympathetic toward its aims and goals. Is the procedure at the present time with respect to writers who are assigned to such projects the same as it has been in the past? Do you simply make a list of the entire membership or a portion thereof available to the Government, or do you do any screening at all in the Screen Writers Guild?
Mr. TUNBERG. We do a certain amount of it. The procedure has changed. You referred to the Writers' Mobilization. This does not come within my direct experience. I did not become active until 1947.
Mr. JACKSON. I understand that. 
Mr. TUNBERG. My understanding is that the Writers' Mobilization, which was started as a Government agency to help the Government in the writing of material, not only restricted material but unrestricted material for bond drives, for tours, I think practically every-this Mobilization was started, and practically every writer in Hollywood was a member of it. It was only later that the Communists saw the possibility of taking this over, and I think early in the history of the Writers' Mobilization there probably wasn't a screening of these people, especially when they weren't dealing with restricted material.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, could you set a figure on the present member- ship of the Screen Writers' Guild of admitted or known members of the Communist Party?
Mr. TUNBERG. I could only guess at it.
Mr. JACKSON. What would your best guess be ?
Mr. TUNBERG. These are now people who have admitted pub- liclyMr. JACKSON. That's right, either on the stand or have been so identified.
Mr. TUNBERG. I should say probably 60.
Mr. JACKSON. Sixty?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes. 
Mr. JACKSON. What is your present membership ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Twelve hundred.
Mr. JACKSON. Twelve hundred? 
Mr. TUNBERG. Twelve hundred; yes, sir, approximately. I think it is a few under that-1,180; something like that. 
Mr. JACKSON. But your feeling is that the Screen Writers' Guild as of today has the situation in hand; that there is no chance of a repetition of what occurred when there appeared to have been a succession of secretariesMr. TUNBERG. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON (continuing). Who, if they were not members of the Communist Party, themselves, certainly lent every aid and comfort to the Communist Party? It is your feeling-is it, Mr. Tunberg?that that situation is today in hand in the Screen Writers' Guild? 
Mr. TUNBERG. It is indeed, sir. I feel that it is well in hand. I should point out here that after we got rid of Mr. Pomerance we then had an executive secretary by the name of Alice Penneman, who served us well for several years. She recently retired, and we now  INDUSTRY 1853 have another executive secretary named Frances Engels. In both these cases, I think these secretaries are above reproach. As far as your asking "Do you feel that there is any chance of a repetition?" I think there is always the chance of a repetition if people don't remain vigilant. I think we have the situation well in hand. I think that it could get out of hand if we didn't watch it. I think it could get out of hand in this country if we didn't watch it. I think the clear and present danger is communism today.
Mr. JACKSON. I think that is pretty generally accepted, and it would certainly be my hope that other organizations which are under this attack would take a look at the experiences in the Screen Writers' Guild and realize that it is not sheer force of numbers that makes it possible to dominate and direct but, rather, a laxity on the part of the majority of the members of the organization who come late and leave early and allow untrammeled control of the operations of the organization. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Tunberg, we deeply appreciate your cooperationMr. TUNBERG. Mr. Chairman, could I ask one further question ?
Mr. WALTER. Yes. 
Mr. TUNBERG. In the testimony yesterday-I watched it on television; I believe it was yesterday-a certain editorial was read into the record. I think maybe some people may get the impression from this that people who have cooperated with the committee in the past in the form of so-called friendly witnesses may have been victimized by certain employers.
Mr. WALTER. I am wondering. I was just about to ask you do you Imow who the witnesses wereMr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. WALTER (continuing). Who testified before this committee?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Who were they ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I would like to say that at the beginning of this current hearing, the Motion Picture Industry Council did write a letterand the Motion Picture Industry Council does represent all phases of the motion-picture industry, creative, crafts, management, producers, directors-pointing out that these people had not been victimized in any way by any employer in the motion-picture industry. I do have .a list of these people who were mentioned who testified.
Mr. WALTER. Do you know what they are doing now ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir. I haveMr. WALTER. Well, will you give us the list and tell us what they .are doing, whether employed, whether they have been employed since they testified in Washington.
Mr. TUNBERG. This is a list of people who testified on the so-called friendly basis, and in some quarters it has been said that they were kept out of employment. Morrie Riskind was one. Now, Mr. Riskind, I want to point out, has never really been, primarily, a film writer. He has written several pictures, but he was primarily a playwright and a very brilliant one, and I think for a period before his testimony he had not worked in pictures. He has not worked a great deal in pictures since then because he, as I understand it, is engaged in writing a play. Leo McCarey was one of the so-called friendly witnesses. I think he has been busy every day since 0 1854 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY those hearings, at a very large salary. He is employed. He is under contract, I believe, to Paramount Studios and has been for many years. Also, I think he also had a contract with RKO. Sam Wood, up to the time he died, was under contract, I believe, to UI and to Metro. Certainly he always was employed and always worked at a very high salary. Walt Disney. another friendly witness, owns his own studio. Gary Cooper was a friendly witness. Gary has worked as much as he wants to at a very high salary; is working now; has made many pictures since then. Adolphe Menjou-the same applies here. Mr. Menjou, for a while, worked for a few months; didn't 'ork. ' He has lately been in a series of pictures. I think he has more work than he can accept. He is now, I believe, working at Metro, or finished at Metro. Jack Moffitt was one. Jack Moffitt, an excellent newspaperman, is conducting a column in the Herald Express. George Murphy was another friendly witness. He was under contract to MGM at the time. He is still under contract to MGM; has been consistently throughout this time under contract to MGM. Ayn Rand. Now, Miss Rand was a novelist, not a film writer. She has worked and is continuing to work in films, and since those hearings. They did a story of hers at Warner Bros. recently called Fountainhead. Since then she has worked for Hal Wallis who makes pictures for Paramount. Rupert Hughes, another friendly witness, is not a film writer. He is a historian, a novelist. He hasn't written films for many years. Robert Taylor. Certainly Mr. Taylor has worked, I think, every week since that time. He has been under contract, at least. There is more money tied up or invested in this actor than in any actor.in Hollywood. He has just made a very expensive picture called Quo Vadis. Fred Niblo, Jr., has worked since these hearings, another friendly witness. He worked for Eagle-Lion and RKO, Monogram, since those hearings. Ronald Reagan certainly has been very busy, as busy as he wants to be. He is president of the Screen Actors' Guild. Another friendly witness was Richard McCauley, who has worked at RKO since that time. Roy Brewer was a friendly witness, but he hardly fits in this category since he is a professional labor executive. James Kevin McGuinness-he worked for most of the time. He is dead now, but up to the time he died he, I think, had few periods of unemployment; worked most of the time.
Mr. WALTER. Did these people resume the employment they had prior to their testifying in Washington- 
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes.
Mr. WALTER. Upon their return to Hollywood ?
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. WALTER. All right, proceed.
Mr. TUNBERG. Robert Montgomery did several pictures after his testimony. One was Ride a Pink Horse at Universal-International. He is now, by his own choice, working in the East on television and radio, I believe. Another friendly witness was Mrs. Lela Rogers. She was not-I don't believe she was a worker in the film industry but certainly her daughter has worked consistently since then. I thought in the interests of actorsMr. WALTER. Well, have you given us the names of all of the witnesses who testified before this committee? COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1855 
Mr. TUNBERG. I believe that is all the group that was mentioned in this one hearing, yes. witnesses. I believe these are the so-called friendly 
Mr. WALTER. Anything further, Mr. Tavenner? 
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask this, Mr. Chairman. Will you tell me, please, what is the significance of this list, in your considered judgment?
Mr. WAITER. The witness has given us the names of all the witnesses who testified here before and their employment immediately after their testimony.
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, it shows that the friendly witnesses who have cooperated with the committee have not been penalized or lost employment as a result thereof.
Mr. TUNBERG. Exactly.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much.
Mr. WALTER. Any questions, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. JACKSON. I have a couple.
Mr. TAVENNER. No questions.
Mr. JACKSON. I have one more question. You have gone over the list of the friendly witnesses. What of the unfriendly witnesses? Do you have any knowledge of whether or not any material has been sold or, conversely, has been purchased from those witnesses who have refused to cooperate and answer the questions of this committee?
Mr. TUNBERG. I have no direct knowledge of it, no. I heard of rumors that some member-some of the unfriendly 10 have written scripts under other names which have been purchased unwittingly by studios. I have no proof of that.
Mr. JACKSON. I have no further questions.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Tunberg, you have been very helpful, and I assure you that the entire committee appreciates your cooperation.
Mr. TUNBERG. Well, I appreciate your letting me come.
Mr. WALTER. More than that, I think you have given us some very fine evidence as to an effective way to combat the tactics employed in your meetings, the same tactics employed in labor unions and in meetings of other organizations, and it would seem to me that many people could learn a great deal from the very effective manner in which you have combatted this insidious movement.
Mr. TUNBERG. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope it will be of value.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I clarify one matter? You made reference to Mr. McGuinness.
Mr. TUNBERG. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not Mr. McGuinness' contract had been bought up and that, actually, he had not been employed ?
Mr. TUNBERG. I don't know that his contract had been bought up. He had left the employ of one studio, but I know that he had offers to work in other studios. He received one offer, to my knowledge, from Paramount after leaving the studio.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is all. 
Mr. WALTER. Who is your next witness, Mr. Tavenner
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Sidney Buchman.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Buchman.
Mr. SIEGEL. Mr. Chairman, I am an attorney from New York City and I represent Mr. Buchman. As you probably know, Mr. Buchman 1856 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY has not been well and I don't think he is fit to testify. However, I understand that this is the last day that this committee is in session, And Mr. Buchman, ill as he is, would like to have an opportunity to present his side of some of the matters you may be interested in.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Buchman has been subpenaed and because of your representations as to his physical condition this committee had a United States Public Health physician examine your client. This physician has informed the committee that your client is in condition to testify; and, more than that, your client's own doctor has told us the same thing. 'So I see no reason why Mr. Buchman shouldn't testify ih accordance with the usual procedure. 
Mr. SIEGEL. May I take a moment, Mr. Chairman? He is here and of course he will testify if directed to do so. I simply wanted to say this, that I was not trying to interpose my opinion in opposition to that of any doctor.
Mr. WALTER. If I understood you correctly, he requested that he be permitted to make a statement.
Mr. SIEGEL. No, Mr. Chairman. I was simply saying that he does not appear to be fit to testify; however, I yield to medical opinion. I am not trying to oppose medical opinion by my own. If he is directed to testify may I make two requests, Mr. Chairman, in the interest of having him assist in the performance of his testimonial duty ? First, can he appear here without being televised, in order to take any stress or strain off of him; and, secondly, in connection with the effort to appear here I have spent a great deal of time with him during the past week trying to probe his memory, his recollection and soul with respect to the things that I think you may require some information from him. Therefore, it may be necessary, in order to perform his duty; since he is not feeling too well, to look from time to time at notes which he has prepared and which I have helped him prepare.
Mr. WALTER. That's quite all right. I have no objection.
Mr. SIEGEL. Thank you very much. 
Mr. WALTER. If he requests that he not be televised, why, of course, the request will be complied with. Will you raise your right hand, please. Do you swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. BucHMAN. I do. 
Mr. WALTER. Sit down.
Mr. SIEGEL. Will it also be all right to have whatever photographs are taken, taken now so it won't interrupt the testimony ? TESTIMONY OF SIDNEY BUCHMAN, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, R. LAWRENCE SIEGEL
