Mr. WILSON. I am, sir.
Mr. WooD. Will counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. KENNY. Robert W. Kenny, Los Angeles.
Mr. WOOD. You may proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are Michael Wilson?
Mr. WILSON. Mr. Tavenner, may I introduce a statement for the record ?
Mr. TAVENNER. You will address your remarks to the chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Is it in writing?
Mr. WILSON. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. Hand it to the clerk. It will be received by the com- mittee. Before proceeding I would like to remind you, Mr. Wilson, that following the well-established custom of this committee you have the right and privilege of conferring with your counsel at any time you may desire in connection with your interrogation here and obtain from him such advice and suggestion that you deem you are in need of, and your counsel, having been before the committee on frequent occasions, is familiar with his rights and privileges under the rules of the committee.
Mr. WILSON. Mr. Chairman, may I make a request? I don't object to the pictures, but during the course of my giving testimony it is rather disconcerting.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is why I am waiting until they are finished.
Mr. WooD. In that circumstance I will ask the photographers to please complete their pictures as quickly as they possibly can with efficiency.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state your name, please?
Mr. WIsoN. My name is Michael Wilson.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Wilson ?
Mr. WILSON. I was born on July 1, 1914, in McAlester, Okla.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a resident of California?
Mr. WILSON. I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived here?
Mr. WILSON. I believe since the time I was 8 or 9 years old.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession or occupation? COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 1675 
Mr. WILSON. I am a writer and I intend to continue being a writer despite any attempt to black-list me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committeeMr. WOOD. Just a moment. If by that statement you seek to leave the inference that anyone here is seeking to black-list you, I want to take exception to it at this point and remind you, sir, that as far as the activities of this committee are concerned there is no attempt to black-list anybody. 
Mr. WILSON. Well, it seems to me, Mr. Wood, that in view of the fact that 3 days after I announced to my employer that I had a subpena from your committee, despite the fact that I had been accused of nothing, I was taken off the payroll.
Mr. WOOD. Under those circumstances, sir, I hope by your testimony here you will convince your employer that your removal from the payroll was-without justification and we are giving you the opportunity to do just that on the best forum that I know of. So far as your critical remarks are concerned with reference to this committee, I might point out to you that from time immemorial it has been the custom of people who are accused and charged with things that are in violation of a constitution and laws and custom, to denounce the investigating authorities. Indeed we had an exemplification of that doctrine as far back as the early days of the history of English jurisprudence. One of the great legal commentaries made use of the expression, "No man e'er felt.the halter drawn with good opinion of the law."
Mr. WILSON. I can't see how any reasonable man could say that. Without this committee there would be no black list. 
Mr. WooD. I don't see how any reasonable man can say that there would ever be a black list except by the actions and conduct of those who are black-listed, if there are such. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. What has been your training for your profession, 
Mr. Wilson?
Mr. WILSON. My education, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Just in brief.
Mr. WILSON. I attended the Catholic schools in Oklahoma City, Catholic and public schools in California. I went to high school in Berkeley, I was graduated in 1936 from the University of California with honors in philosophy; I had 3 years of postgraduate study, one as a teaching assistant in English, one as a Thelan Fellowship of Creative Literature, one as the Gayley Fellowship in American History. This is pretty much my formal education.
Mr. TAVENNER. In the practice of your profession as a writer have you been engaged in screen writing; is that the type of writing?
Mr. WILSON. I have, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What have been your principal screen credits as a writer ?
Mr. WILSON. I believe my first credit was a picture called The Men In Her Life. This was before the war; I believe in about 1940, 1941. I then did a number of Hopalong Cassidy pictures, which are those that are now corrupting our children on the television screens of the Nation. I then entered the service of my country, and after the war, 3 years later, I was again employed. I contributed to a pic- 1676 ture called It's a Wonderful Life. I was the coauthor of a picture called A Place in the Sun, based on Mr. Theodore Dreiser's An American Tragedy, which has recently been released. I wrote a picture called Five Fingers, which is now in production at Twentieth Century-Fox. I also wrote a couple of screen plays which have not yet been produced, one on Thomas Wolfe's novel, Look Homeward, Angel. and a second called The Friendly Persuasion, which was about the Quaker people. I might add, Mr. Tavenner, that I feel that this committee might take the credit, or part of it at least, for the fact that The Friendly Persuasion was not produced, in view of the fact that it dealt warmly, in my opinion, with a peace-loving people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of course, this committee has no knowledge of the intimate details of your contract or your relationship with your employer. I see from this very fine record of production of work that you have been engaged for a very substantial period in the industry, the moving-picture industry. You should be in a position to help this committee, if you will, regarding the subject of its inquiry, and that is the nature and the extent of Communist Party infiltration into the moving-picture industry. Are you willing to cooperate with the committee in that manner ?
Mr. WILsoN. Have you posed a question, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I asked you if you are willing to cooperate with the committee in giving it any information which you may possess regarding the subject of its inquiry, which I announced
Mr. WILSON (after conferring with his counsel). I wish you would put the question more specifically, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is a very plain and simple question.
Mr. WnsoN. I see nothing simple about it because it seems to cover the whole world.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you want me to ask you the question as to whether or not you have ever been a member of the Communist Party before asking you whether or not you can cooperate with this committee in its efforts toMr. WLsoN. You ask the questions.
Mr. TAVENNER. In its efforts to seek information regarding the Communist Party ? If you do, I will ask it that way.
Mr. WLsoN. Is that the question?
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking you.
Mr. WIsoN. You are asking the questions, sir. I will attempt to be responsive.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well. Then will you be responsive to this, please, sir: What knowledge have you of the activities of the Communist Party in the moving-picture industry ?
Mr. WrIsoN. Since that is a question designed to link me with an organization that this committee has called subversive I shall invoke my privilege and my right under the fifth article of the Bill of Rights and decline to answer that question, and in so doing I wish also to protect the rights of every American citizen to the privacy of belief and association.
Mr.WoooD. Mr. Marshal, I again request that the next time there is a demonstration started, if you can determine who started it, eject them from this room peremptorily.  1677 
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, Mr. Wilson, you are unwilling to give this committee the benefit of any information you may have regarding the subject of this investigation ?
Mr. WILSON. I didn't say that, Mr. Tavenner. I said I decline to answer the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I see no distinction. I have no further questions.
Mr. Wooo. Mr. Walter, I yield to you for any question you desire to ask.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Wilson, in this prepared statement that you handed to the committee a moment ago, this is contained: Peace is a word of purity that I have seen this committee try to defile. I would like you to explain to us how this committee has tried to defile peace.
Mr. WILSON. Because it is my opinion, sir, that this committee is beating the drums of war. It seems strange to me, and I know that this committee has stated it is in favor of peace-it seems strange to me that you are always asking people whether or not they are willing to bear arms to kill other people. Why don't you ever ask them if they are willing to fight for peace ? I believe that is my highest, the most sacred patriotic duty I have at this time, sir.
Mr. WALTER. I think that opinion is shared by everybody in the United States. We all have a different idea about peace. There are some people, and fortunately they are in a very, very small minority, who feel that peace means yielding to the Communists so that they can continue the aggressive steps that have been taken with the resultant subjugation and extinction, if you please, of other nations. Our interest in calling you wasn't to embarrass you or humiliate you. We know you were a Communist. We know much about your activities. But we were hoping that you would give us some information with respect to the setting up of these front organizations which collected so much money for the Communist movement in the United States. That's why you were subpenaed. That's all.
Mr. WooD: Mr. Doyle? 
Mr. DOYLE. I hardly know how to direct this question to you, Mr. Wilson, when you charge this committee with defiling peace, because my own son was a war casualty in the Air Force in the interests of peace. (Representative Charles E. Potter left the hearing room.)
Mr. WILsoN. I heard you say that yesterday, Mr. Doyle, and you have my deepest sympathies. 
Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Potter, just walking out of this committee room, has two wooden limbs-look at him walk-as a result of his fight for peace. I can't help but resent the implications that known Communists come here and refuse to cooperate with this committee and come clean and help us uncover the subversive influences in this country, when they charge us that we are defiling peace. We are not interested, Mr. Wilson, in getting at people or pro- grams that are anything less than subversive. You know Webster's definition, it's to overthrow, to overturn. We are not interested in questioning you as to any other people that are not interested in doing that. COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WILSOx. But I think subversion is being committed against the Bill of Rights here today. That is my opinion, sir. Mlr. D I.O:. In what way?
Mr. WILSONx. I think you are invading the right of American citizens.
Mr. DoYLE. We are asking you merely were you ever a member of the Co ~nunnist Party. Were you ever a member of the Communist Party? I will ask you that. Why don't you tell us honestly? Is there anything subversive about the Communist Party that would invqlve you in possible criminal prosecution if you ever were a member?
Mr. WVIsoxN. I decline to answer the question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. DOYLE. Of course you do. I understand that. That is your privilege. But I, as a father of that boy and a colleague of Potter, can't sit here and listen to you say that we are defiling peace. I was in Alaska for several days 2 weeks ago, on a committee from Congress, and I heard the Russian radio at Nome and Anchorage say to us over their broadcast that the United States were warmongers, imperialists, that Catherine had been imposed upon when the United States paid $7 million for Alaska, that we had stolen Alaska, and it really never was part of the United States. And you expect me to sit hereJust one second; in closing, Mr. Chairman, there are some of us in Congress, and I am one of them; that wouldn't stay there 30 minutes if my life wasn't dedicated to world peace. You folks'that are known Communists, and the records of the committee indicate that you are one of them, Mr. Wilson, even though you hide behind the fifth amendment, when you known Communists blast forth that we are destroying peace-how would you fight for peace? Would you give your life for peace?
Mr. WILsoN. I certainly would, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. How would you do it; how would you form an army for peace?
Mr. WILsoN. Well, I will try to answer that question.
Mr. DOYLE. I want you to. I am inviting you to.
Mr. WILsoN. I don't believe that we prepare for peace by preparing for war, and in my humble opinion, if the profits were taken out of war, I believe there would be a lot less war hysteria in this country today. If American boys have to die to prove their devotion to their country, it doesn't seem to me to be too much to ask of the war profiteers that they surrender their profits as a patriotic duty, and I think it might be good and patriotic legislation for this committee to propose that.
Mr. DOYLE. Listen, Wilson, you may be surprised at this answer. I, too, would take profits out of war.
Mr. WILSON. Well, I am glad to hear that.
Mr. DOYLE. Listen to me. But when the United States of America, through the United Nations, offered to place the atomic energy under an international commission so we could be assured that the atomic bomb wouldn't be used to destroy civilization, who refused to do it? Russia-Soviet Union. What chance have we got to have an army for peace when aggressive Soviet communism is on the march over the world? Your philosophy would end in Soviet aggression coming in over the Arctic Circle where I was 2 weeks ago at Point Barrow and  1679 Nome, coming in over there and capturing Alaska because we were unprepared to resist Soviet aggression.
Mr. WILSON. I simply think that a third world war, Mr. Doyle, is simply unthinkable.
Mr. DOYLE. So do I.
Mr. WILSON. It would be mass annihilation of peoples. 
Mr. DOYLE. This committee is a darned lot harder than Communists are. They are fighting in favor of Soviet aggression capturing the world for the sake of communistic ideology. I wish you would give your wonderful philosophical training to world peace on the highest plane instead of backing it through the Soviet mouth. Thank you very much.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. DOYLE. I wish we had more time, Mr. Wilson.
Mr. WILSON. So do I.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Wilson, it appears to me that during the late war when the Communist Party and all of its satellites in it or by it were screaming for a second front, that they were not unduly concerned at that time about peace. Is this a relatively recent development in the philosophy of the party ?
Mr. WILSON. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. JACKSON. That is a very difficult question to answer, because it goes to the basis of the whole thing. The Soviet Union doesn't want peace. The Communists don't want peace unless it is a peace on Soviet terms, which would be absolutely impossible for any decent, liberty-loving person. Winston Churchill once said, "I would rather die on my feet than live on my knees," and I think that is what the American people are saying today.
Mr. WILSON. I don't think they should die at all, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Somebody is going to die because Mr. Stalin has said that these two orders cannot exist side by side in the same world. This is a mortal fight t6 the finish if Mr. Stalin persists in pursuing the course of action he has pursued since the conclusion of World War II. We have leaned over backward, we have signed treaty after treaty in good faith, only to see them broken at the whim of a dictator, one who is every bit a dictator, as much a dictator as Mr. Hitler or
Mr. Mussolini. Now, I fought against fascism for 5 years; Mr. Potter lost two legs. We didn't do it from a soap box. We did it out where deeds were being performed against fascism. We are ready to do it again if the need arises, and all of us hope that we can bring peace about through peaceful means, but to impugn the motives of this committee, to impugn the motives of the Congress, to say it is not seeking peace is a lie.
Mr. WILSON. I believe in the peaceful coexistence, Mr. Jackson; you do not. Therefore you say that war is inevitable.
Mr. JACKSON. I made no statement so far as coexistence was con- cerned. I was quoting the head of the Soviet Union who says that only through violent revolution can these two systems be brought into harmony. I am not quoting my statement or your statement. I am quoting the head of the Soviet Union, the man who dictates policy to every Communist in this room and every Communist in southern California. 1680 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. WILsox. Well, this is not my forum, sir, and I might debate a lot of matters with you at some other time when I have equal rights.
Mr. JACKSON. Your rights have not been infringed upon. You have used the Constitution, which every Communist will destroy if he had his own way.
Mr. WILSN-. No, sir. I am here under compulsion.
Mr. JACKSON. You have come here under compulsion, but have you been compelled to answer any questions before this committee?
Mr. WILSON. In a legal sense, no. 
Mr. JACKSON. In a legal sense. We are talking in legal senses. You are talking about your constitutional rights, which are legal. 
Mr. WILSON. You bet, and if we didn't have the fifth amendment you would compel me to answer it.
Mr. JACKSON. If we didn't have the fifth amendment we probably would find out where a lot of people are at work trying to destroy the rest of the Bill of Rights and the rest of the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. WooD. Have you any other questions, Mr. Tavenner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. Mr. Wilson, are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. WLsON. I decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds of the fifth amendment?
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you ever a member?
Mr. WILsoN. I decline to answer, sir, on the same grounds.
Mr. TAVENNER. No further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Any reason why the witness shouldn't be excused from further attendance on the committee? 
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. WOOD. So ordered. Call your next witness, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. John Sanford.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Sanford in the hearing room? Are you Mr. John Sanford?
Mr. SANFORD. I am. 
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn, please. You do solemnly swear the evidence you will give this subcommittee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. SANFORD. I do.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Sanford, are you represented here by counsel?
Mr. SANFORD. Well, in a sense I am. I happen to be an attorney myself.
Mr. WOOD. I see.
Mr. SANFORD. They say that an attorney who has himself for a client has a fool, but I will take that chance. TESTIMONY OF JOHN SANFORD
