Mr. SHIP. My name is Reuben Ship, R-e-u-b-e-n S-h-i-p.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Ship
Mr. SHIP. I was born on October 18, 1915, in Montreal, Canada.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a naturalized American citizen ?
Mr. SHIP. No, I am not.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you enter the United States? TAVENNER. 1772 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. SnIP. I entered the United States on a permanent visa in July 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, where do you reside?
Mr. SHIP. I reside in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been a resident of Hollywood?
Mr. SHIP. Since July 1943.
Mr. TA\VENNER. What is your occupation or profession?
Mr. SHIP. I am a writer; primarily a radio writer. ,Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee what your educational training has been, briefly, please?
Mr. SHIP. I was educated in the public and high schools of Mon- treal and I received by B. A. degree at McGill University in Montreal.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, what has been your record of employment since arrival here in Hollywood in 1943 ?
Mr. SHIP. Well, when I first came here I spent a few short months trying to get started in motion pictures, without much success, so I went into the field of radio and, starting in December 1944, I believe, I have been employed, writing the Life of Riley radio program, and I was continuously employed on that program for a matter of some 8 years, until this last June 1951. I wrote approximately 300 programs.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Ship, have you.filed your declaration of inten- tion to become an American citizen ?
Mr. SHIP. Yes. That is known as first papers? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. SHIP. Yes. I did file such a declaration in June, I think, of 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you file it ? 
Mr. SHIP. I filed it here in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you followed the naturalization procedure by applying for naturalization ?
Mr. SHIP. No; I did not pursue it any further.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why have you changed your view about becoming a citizen of the United States or your desire to become a citizen ?
Mr. SHIP. No; I still have a desire to become a citizen of this very fine country.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you filed your declaration of intention to become an American citizen ?
Mr. SHIP. Well, inasmuch as you are now attempting to link me with an organization which you have labeled as subversive, I am going to stand on my privilege under the fifth amendment under which I cannot be compelled to testify against myself and, therefore, I decline to answer your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were you a member of the Communist Party when you entered the United States?
Mr. SHIP. Again, sir, this a related question, and I decline on the previously stated grounds.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party? SnIP. Again I decline, same grounds. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. WALTER. The fifth amendment to the Constitution offers to aliens as well as to American citizens the kind of protection that doesn't exist in many other countries in the world, Mr. Ship.  1773 
Mr. Doyle, any questions?
Mr. DOYLE. Do you deny that you were a Communist at any time since you entered the borders of our great country as you stated, comma quote ?
Mr. SHP. Mr. Doyle, at the risk of being repetitious, although I think that even if I were repetitious I would be performing some slight service to the American people in informing them that when one stands on the fifth amendment, one neither affirms nor denies anything, one merely refuses to answer on the grounds that an answer might tend to subject the person to prosecution and that no inference except this stated one can be drawn.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, I am glad you have apparently been very thor- oughly informed as to your constitutional rights under the Constitution of the United States. Is it a fair question for me to ask why you haven't prosecuted your second papers? You filed your first papers in 1944. Let's see, that is how many years ago? You have been here in Los Angeles all these years. I think it might cost then $10 or $12 more to complete your papers. Why haven't you done it?
Mr. SHIP. Well, Mr. Doyle, I have witnessed a shocking and a frightening change take place in this country since the death of President-that great, liberal President, Franklin Roosevelt. Hundreds of aliens, foreign-born men and women, have been thrown in jail, in many cases held without bail or with excessive bail, and have been persecuted because of their beliefs, because of their opinions. Now, when the alien-I have satMr. DOYLE. Now, just a minute. I am not asking you to take my time to recite a speech that you are prepared to make.
Mr. SHIP. Mr. Doyle, I can't answer your question yes or no.
Mr. DOYLE. But I am interested-well, you can't answer it? You can tell us whyMr. SHIP. Can I answer? I can't answer that yes or no.
Mr. DOYLE. Well, that doesn't call for a speech. Be as brief as you can, because our time is limited.
Mr. SHIP. Very well, being as brief as I can, in specific reply to your question as to why I did not apply for citizenship, I decline under the fifth amendment to answer it.
Mr. DOLE. Well, assuming that I know enough about the founda- tion of the speech that you started to make, I was going to ask you, if you find so much fault with my country, why don't you go back to yours, if that is a fair question ? I understand you are very critical of this country since President Roosevelt died, and I always supported President Roosevelt and I am sorry he died, but I would invite you, sirMr. SHIP. Sir, I am not critical. I did not say I was critical of this country, only critical of certain aspects that have been happening in this country. I tell you, I am critical of this committee. That is one aspect.
Mr. DOYLE. You get in and make this country better by becoming a citizen. 
Mr. WALTER. Let's not engage in argument, gentlemen. 
Mr. Jackson
Mr. JACKSON. Yes. To pursue the same question, Mr. Ship, you are critical of this committee-you so state. You realize, of course, that this committee is a legally constituted body of the United States 1774 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY Congress, expressing the wishes and the will of the vast majority of the people of the United States. Do you acknowledge that?
Mr. SHIP. Well, the witch-hunting things in the time of Cotton Mather were legally constituted bodies.
Mr. JACKSON. If so many witches wouldn't leave their brooms laying around we wouldn't be falling over them.
Mr. StIP. Are you now accusing me of being a witch?
Mr. JACKSON. I am not accusing you of being anything. Whatever you are is in your own mind and on your own conscience but I would <join with my colleague, Mr. Doyle, in saying to you, Mr. Ship, that if you don't like the United States of America, if you don't like the way the Congress runs the country, if you don't like the institutions and the ideals, available transportation is still operating between this country and Canada, and I would suggest, for one, that you go back to Canada.
Mr. SHIP. But I do like the United States and I am goingMr. JAcKsoN. Then act like an American citizen that you hope to become.
Mr. SHIP. I would like to-Mr. JACKSON. I have no further questions.
Mr. SHIP. Stay in this country, and I will. 
Mr. JACKSON. I hope if you do you will act like a citizenMr. SHIP. I am acting like a citizen.
Mr. JACKSON. And accept some of the responsibilities of a citizen.
Mr. SHIP. I am upholding the Constitution.
Mr. WALTER. Gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen. (At this point Representative Charles E. Potter returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Ship, you said hundreds of aliens have been thrown into jail. Who are these aliens ? What have they been charged with? (Witness confers with counsel.)
Mr. WALTER. You don't need your attorney to give you the answer.
Mr. SHIP. It is almost impossible to pick up the paper without, in the past year, having read of some aliens who, because of their alleged opinions and beliefs, have been subjected to some kind of persecution. I don't know their names, specifically, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Well, what persecution have they been subjected to?
Mr. SHIP. Today, if they stand for peace, peace is made synonymous with communism.
Mr. WALTER. You mean to say that anybody that stands for peace has been put in jail?
Mr. SHIP. No; but I think this committee is attempting to make anybody who stands for peace out to be a subversive, you see, so that the net result is going to be that people who have sincere desires for peace are going to be afraid to speak about peace, and I think that is a terrible thing, and that is a very dangerous thing, because then you are preparing a net climate here that is conducive to war, and, as a result of that, the war that we all dread, the war that can destroy the world, may happen. Now, I would rather risk-I think Thomas Jefferson said that if there is anybody among us who would dissolve this union or try to overthrow this form of government, let them stand-I am quoting roughly-let them stand, he said, as monuments  INDUSTRY 1775 to the safety with which error of opinion can be tolerated, where reason is left to combat it, and I am for reason.
Mr. WALTER. Who do you think you are kidding, Mr. Ship ? 
Mr. SHIP. Well, I am not trying to kid Mr. Thomas Jefferson. 
Mr. WALTER. Well, what you have told me is the Communist line, and if there was any doubt in my mind before you took this witness stand as to why you failed to apply for your second papers it has been eliminated now. Any reason why this witness should not be discharged?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. Who is your next witness, Mr. Tavenner?
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Fleury.
Mr. WALTER. 
Mrs. Fleury, will you raise your right hand, please. You swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mrs. FLEURY. I do.
Mr. WALTER. Be seated, please. TESTIMONY OF BERNYCE POLIFKA FLEURY
