<:m)pm'
                                                                          '¥'   .^




                                                           Union Calendar No. 19
84th Congress,   1st Session                                                         House Report No. 57




    COMMITTEE ON
UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                          ANNUAL REPORT
                    FOR THE YEAR                                         1954




                                JANUARY                26, 1955
                                     (Original Release Date)



     February     16,   1955.— Comrnitted   to the   Committee of the Whole House on the
                          State of the   Union and ordered      to be printed




                               Prepared and released by the
     Committee on L'n-American              Activities,   U.    S.   House of Representatives
                                          Washington, D.   C.
i.




                   COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                      United States House of Representatives
                        HAROLD H. VELDB, Illinois, Chairman
'4   BERNARD W. KEARNEY, New York      FRANCIS E. WALTER, Pennsylvania
''
     DONALD L. JACKSON, California     MORGAN M. MOULDER, Missouri
     KIT CLARDY, Michigan                         CLYDE DOYLE, California
     GORDON   H. SCIIERER, Ohio                   JAMES B. FRAZIER, Jr., Tennessee
                                  ROBEKT   L.   KuNZiG, Coiinsel
                               Frank S. Tavennee, Jr., Counsel
                              Thomas W. Bealb, Sr., Chief Clerk
                            Raphael I. Nixon, Director of Research
                            COUBTNET E. Owens, Chief Investigator
                                       Union Calendar No. 19
84x11 Congress         )    HOUSE OF EEPEESENTATIYES    Report            (

  1st Session          )                                                  I   Ko. 57




      CO:\IMITTEE   OX lTX-A:\rERICAX ACTIVITIES
            AXXUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1954


February   1G, 1955.
                       — Committed      to the   Committee of the Whole House on the
                   State of the Union and ordered to be printed




   Mr. Velde of            Illinois,   from the Committee on Un-American
                       Activities, submitted the following

                                       REPORT
                            [Pursuant   to   H. Res.   5,   S4th Cong.]




                                                                              m
                                CONTENTS
                                                                                      Page
Foreword                                                                                 1
Investis^ation of   Communist   activities in various cities   and States:
    Albany, N. Y                                                                        3
    The Baltimore area                                                                  4
    State of California                                                                 5
    Chicago, 111                                                                        6
    Dayton, Ohio, area                                                                  7
    District of Columbia                                                               14
    Florida                                                                            14
     Michigan                                                                          14
    Pacific Nortliwest area:
         Seattle.                                                                      18
         Portland                                                                      18
    Philadelphia                                                                       21
Recommendations based upon investigations and hearings          in   the year 1954.    22
      IV
                      Public      Law      601,   YOth Congress

  The legislation under wliicli the House Committee on Un-American
Activities operates is Public Law 601, T9th Congress [1946], chapter
T53,    session, which provides :
        2d
  Be   enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
           it
                                   * * *
of America in Congress assembled,

            PART 2— RULES OF THE HOUSE OP EErRESENTATIYES




  17.
       •****
       *******
                           SEC.   121.



           Committee on Un-American
                                           Rule   X
                                         STANDING COMMITTEES


                                         Activities, to consist of nine   members.




       *******                            Rule XI

                         POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEES


    (q) (1) Committee on Un-American Activities.
    (A) Un-American activities.
    (2) Tlie Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole or by subcommit-
tee, is authorized to mal^e from time to time investigations of (i) the extent,
cliaracter, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States,
(ii) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propa-
ganda that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacliS
the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution, and
 (iii) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress in any
necessary remedial legislation.
   The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the House (or to the
Clerk of the House if the House is not in session) the results of any such investi-
gation, together with such recommendations as it deems advisable.
   For the purpose of any such investigation, the Committee on Un-American
Activities, or any subcommittee thereof, is authorized to sit and act at such
times and places within the United States, whether or not the House is sitting,
has recessed, or has adjourned, to hold such hearings, to require the attendance
of such witnesses and the production of such books, papers, and documents, and
to take such testimony, as it deems necessary. Subpenas may be issued under
the signature of the chairman of the committee or any subcommittee, or by any
member designated by any such chairman, and may be served by any person
designated by any such chairman or member.
                                                                                     V
                     RULES ADOPTED BY THE S3D CONGRESS
                          House Resolution    5,   January      3,   1953



                                          Rule     X
                                    STANDIXG COMMITTKES

  1. There shall be elected by the House, at the               commencement         of each Con-
gress, the following standing committees :
        «            «         4:            *                 4:           4c              «t



  (q)        Committee on Un-American   Activities, to consist of nine           members.
        4c           4i        4:            :J:               9|i          ^               lit




                                         Rule XI
                           POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEES


  17.  Committee on Un-American Activities.
  (a)   Un-American Activities.
  (b)   The Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole or by subcommittee,
is authorized to make from time to time, investigations of (1) the extent, char-
acter,  and  objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States,
(2) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American prop-
aganda   that  is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and
attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitu-
tion, and (3) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress
in any necessary remedial legislation.
   The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the House (or to the
Clerk of the House if the House is not in session the results of any such investi-
                                                         )

gation, together with such recommendations as it deems advisable.
   For the purpose of any such investigation, the Committee on Un-American
Activities, or any subcommittee thereof, is authorized to sit and act at such times
and places within the United States, whether or not the House is sitting, has
recessed, or has adjourned, to hold such hearings, to require the attendance
of such witnesses and the production of such books, papers, and documents, and
to take such testimony, as it deems necessary.  Subpenas may be issued under
the signature of the chairman of the committee or any subcommittee, or by any
member designated by such chairman, and            may       be served by any person desig-
nated by any such chairman or member.
             VI
                 ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR             1954

                           FOEEWORD
  This Annual l\oport of the Committee on Un-American Activities
for the year 1954 is submitted to the House of Representatives in com-
pliance with that section of Public Law 601 (79th Cong.)
                                                            which pro-
vides '"The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the
     :



House (or to the Clerk of the House, if the House is not in session)
the results of any such investigation, together with such recommenda-
tions as it deems advisable."
  During the year 1954, the Committee on L^n- American Activities
held hearings in Albany,  K    Y.; Chicago, HI.; Dayton, Ohio; Flint
and Lansing, Mich.; San Diego, Calif.; Seattle, Wash.; Portland,
Oreg. Miami, Fla.; as well as numerous hearings in Washington,
         ;

D. C.    By holding hearings in these various cities throughout the
country, the committee was able to secure the informed testimony of
a great many more witnesses than would have been possible had hear-
ings been held only in Washington, D. C. These on-the-spot hearings
also provided another benefit by giving thousands of American citizens
their first view of the operations of a committee of their Congress.
  The committee is proud to report that in every instance where
hearings were conducted throughout the country, the public and the
press heartily endorsed the committee's operations. The vital nature
of the committee's work and the fairness of the committee proceedings
served to dispel a great many erroneous impressions that had been
created in many places relative to this committee.
  The House Committee on Un-American          Activities, in its official
function during the 83d Congress, called before it in either public or
executive session nearly 600 witnesses. As in previous Congresses, the
majority of these witnesses refused to furnish the committee the infor-
mation they were alleged or known to possess concerning subversive
activities however, a greater number of witnesses than ever before did
             ;


give the committee testimony concerning their personal involvements
in subversive groups. The number of pages of factual testimony
received by the committee during the 8od Congress is approximately
twice as great as that received by it during any preceding Congress.
  In order that these witnesses might be heard and their testimony
recorded under oath, it has been necessary for the members of the
Committee on Un-American Activities to devote an unprecedented
amount of time to their duties with this committee.
   Over the past IG years the House committee, as well as the Special
Committee on Un-American Activities, has made numerous recom-
mendations for the enactment of new legislation or the strengthening
of existing laws dealing with subversive activities. Over all of this
time the members of these committees recognized that legislation deal-
ing with the internal security of our great Nation was woefully inade-
quate. It was not until 1950 that the Congress realized the necessity
     5500S                                                       1
2    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

for immediate legislation.     In that year, after extensive legislative
hearings by the House Committee on Un-American Activities, com-
menced in 1947, Congress passed the Internal Security Act of 1950
 (McCarran-Wood Act). This vital legislation is still, after 4 years,
undergoing the tedious but necessary court tests to establish its con-
stitutionality. The committee noted with interest the recent finding
of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit, which decision confirmed the findings of the Subversive
Activities Control Board that the Commmiist Party must register and
conform to other provisions of the Internal Security Act.
  During 1954 the House of Representatives implemented by legisla-
tion a number of past recommendations of the Committee on Un-
American Activities. The committee in its annual report for the year
1953 detailed the past recommendations made by this committee and
the Special Committee on Un-American Activities. It is worthy of
note that at the commencement of 1954 all but 8 of the committee's 47
recommendations had been favorably acted upon by Congress or the
executive branch.
  Early in 1954 the Attorney General of the United States advised
the Congress that certain legislation was considered necessary to
strengthen effectively the national security. Four of these recom-
mendations by the Attorney General were embraced within those
previously made by the committee. These were for capital punish-
ment in instances of espionage committed in time of peace immunity
                                                               ;


for certain witnesses appearing before duly authorized Federal bodies     ;


for the admissibility of evidence secured by wiretapping or teclmical
devices; and for legislation to break Communist coutrol over certain
labor unions. The Congress in 1954 passed and the President signed
into law three of these recommendations originally proposed by this
committee and subsequently requested by the Attorney General.            A
law permitting the use of evidence secured by technical devices in
cases involving espionage and matters relating to internal security
passed the House but did not obtain approval in the Senate,
   On the basis of hearings and investigations, the committee during
1954 issued several reports to the Congress and the American people.
The first of these reports was "Colonization of America's Basic Indus-
tries by the Communist Party of the U. S. A."          This report reflects
the committee's findings on the Communist Party's endeavors to se-
cure a foothold in the vital basic industries of this country. The
committee points out in this report that the Communist Party had
directed its intellectuals and white-collar workers to leave employment
in their own chosen fields and to obtain positions in industries vital
to defense, such as steel, electricity, and the maritime.   In many cases,
persons were required to leave their homes and travel to distant cities
in order to carry out this Communist directive.      The  committee issued
this report to warn and alert the Congress and the industries involved
regarding these efforts by the Communist Party in the United States.
   The committee also released for the information of the Congress and
the American public a booklet on the background and work of the
committee entitled, "This Is Your House Committee on Un-American
Activities." The booklet contained 116 questions and answers relative
to the work of tlie committee, together with considerable statistical
data on matters pertaining to the various aspects of the committee and
        ANNUAL REPORT, COAIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN      ACTIVITIES     3

itsfunctions.            An     made to provide answers to the many
                                effort vras
questions that           Members
                           of Congress and the committee have been
asked re<2:ardino: the committee. Due to tlie heavy demand for tlie
booklet, the limited supply was almost immediately exhausted.
   In the annual report of the Committee on Un-American Activities
for the year 1953, it was noted that the committee was engaged in a
continuing study and investigation of the activities of groups which,
Avhile posing as super-patriotic defenders of "life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness,'' were in reality neofascist or "hate" groups.
Eecognizing the threat posed by the activities of racist hatemongers,
the committee instructed the staff to prepare a preliminary report on
this subject. After a comprehensive study by the committee staff, the
members approved the release of a "Preliminary Report on Neo-
Fascist and Hate Groups.*' The report by no means exposes all of the
facets of this problem, but rather deals with two glaring examples, one
a neofascist and the other a "hate" group. The committee found that
the National Renaissance Party was an open and avowed fascist
group and the Department of Justice was requested to ascertain
whether prosecution of its leaders under the provisions of the Smith
Act was     possible.
  One of the most frequent of the many false claims made by the
Communist Party is that it has had appreciable success in its efforts
to recruit members from among American Negroes. In order to es-
tablish the falsity of these claims the committee prepared and released
a report entitled, "The American Negro in the Communist Party."
This report reflects the testimony of witnesses eminently qualified to
furnish information relative to the Communist Party's efforts to
infiltrate and gain control over American citizens of the Negro race.
The committee found great satisfaction in being able to report that
the Communist Party has had but infinitesimal success in its recruit-
ment efforts among the 15 million American Negroes.
  The committee also reported the details of an exhaustive investiga-
tion and hearings relating to a pujolication, which while posing as a
legitimate trade-union journal, is in reality nothing
                                                        more than a
                                                           the March
mouthpiece for Communist propaganda. The "Rei^ort on
of Labor" clearly establishes the Communist "front" character of that
publication.
  In addition to the hearings and reports of the committee during
                                              valuable service provided
1954, there has been continued the singularly
to Members of Congress, congressional committees, and duly author-
ized agencies of the Federal Government by the committee's files and
reference service. With the ever-increased interest aroused by the
                                               there has been a propor-
expanded knowledge of subversive activities,
tionate increase in requests for information from the committee.

INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST xiCTIVITIES                              IN
         VARIOUS CITIES AND STATES
                            Albany, N. Y.
      The House Committee on Un-American Activities commenced    hear-
ings in Albany, N. Y., in July 1953, which dealt principally
                                                              with the
strong efforts of the Communist Party to infiltrate the important area
of Albany, N. Y., and the New York State government.
        H. Kept.   57,   S4-1     2
4     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

    On   April 7 through April   9, 1954, a subcommittee of the Com-
mittee on    Un-American Activities resumed hearings in Albany, deal-
ing principally with Communist infiltration of vital defense industries
and education within the capital area and throughout the State of
New York and adjacent States.
  The committee was furnished valuable testimony by John Patrick
Charles, John Edward Marqusee, Emmanuel Ross Eichardson, Joseph
Klein, and Jack Davis, all of whom testified concerning not only Com-
munist activities in the Albany area, but also throughout New York
State and bordering States. i3oth Mr. Charles and Mr. Richardson,
until 1950 and 1953, respectively, were undercover agents in the Com-
munist Party for the FBI. Some 14 other persons identified as having
been members of the Communist Party appeared before the connnittee
and refused to answer conunittee questions, claiming the privilege of
the fif til amendment.
   Mr. Leo Jandreau, former business agent for United Electrical
Radio and Machine Workers of America, Local 301, General Electric
Workers, Schenectady, N. Y., who at the time of his testimony was
business agent for IUP2-CI0, Local 301, testified that he had never
been a member of the Communist Party.
   Mr. Bernhard Deutch was identified as having been a member of
a graduate group of tlie Communist Party while attending a promi-
nent university in upper New York State (Cornell). Mr. Deutch was
subpenaed before the committee in Washington, D. C,
                                                             on April 12,
                                                    relative to his Com-
1954, and questioned concerning his knowledge
munist Party membership and associations. He testified that he had
been a member of the Communist Party until about the summer of
1953. However, he also stated "To a great extent, it is only fair to
                            —
say, I am a INIarxist today I don't
                                       want to deny that." Aside from
mentioning his own Communist Party membership, he refused to
give the committee the benefit of liis knovvledge and information
                                                                      con-
cerning his Communist Party activities and associations.
   Thereafter, on May 11, 1954, after unanimous vote by the committee
itself, the House of I^epresentatives, by vote of
                                                  346 to 0, cited Bernard
Deutch for contempt of Congress.
                         The Baltimore Area
    During July 1953, a subcommittee holding hearings in New York
City received testimony from Mr. Leonard Patterson, a former mem-
ber of tlie Communist Party and the Young Communist League.
  In this testimony Mr. Patterson related that during 1935, while he
was an organizer for the Young Communist League in Baltimore,
two voung ministers had visited the Communist Party headquarters in
Baltimore,   Md. Mr. Patterson was unable to recall the names of these
young men but did recall that tliey informed him that they were
graduates of Union Theological Seminary in New York City,
                                                                    and
that they had but recently arrived in Baltimore to take up ministerial
assignments, and that the purpose of their visit to Communist Party
headquarters was to ascertain whether the Communist Party had need
of their services in that city. Acting upon the basis of this testimony
the Committee on Un-iVmerican Activities directed that an investi-
gation be conducted to ascertain the facts relating to this situation.
As a result of this investigation, the committee received the testi-
mony of Mr. Earl Reno. Mr. Reno advised that he was a past
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES              5

member    of the Communist Party and that during the period of
1935 he was an organizer for the Communist Party in Baltimore,
]\Id.  He recounted that frequently during this period he used the
assumed Communist Party name of Earl Dixon. He also recalled that
two 3'oung theological graduates had come to Communist Party head-
quarters and oli'ered their services to the Communist Party. It was his
recollection that they had both stated that they had previously par-
ticipated in Communist Party work in New York City. Heno stated
that he had discouraged either of them from taking out actual mem-
bership in the Communist Party but accepted their assistance in help-
ing such Communist Party fronts as the Ethiopian Defense Com-
mittee and the American League Against "War and Fascism. He
recalled that he had often used them to make speeches in different
street-corner gatherings in Baltimore.
   In the course of the investigation the committee heard the testimony
of Eev. Joseph Xowak, at which time he admitted that he was one of
the two ministers referred to by Patterson and Reno. He admitted
going to the Communist Party headquarters on several occasions and
assisting Mr. Patterson in the development of the Ethiopian Defense
Committee and the American League xVgainst "War and Fascism, and
that he had become an official of the latter organization.
   Eeverend Xowak identified Eev. John Hutchison as the other min-
ister who accompanied him to the Communist Party headquarters in
August 1935. Eeverend Xowak testified that while he followed the
Communist Party line and worked closely with the Communist Party
during the period he was in Baltimore, Md., he had not actually be-
come a member of the Communist Party until May 1940 in Chicago, 111.
   On March 18, 1951:, Eev. John Hutchison testified before the com-
mittee and emphatically denied accompanying the Eeverend Xowak
to the office of the Conmiunist Party in Baltimore, Md., in August
of 1935. He denied ever having visited the office of the Communist
Party and denied ever having known Mr. Leonard Patterson or Mr.
Earl Eeno, either by that name or the name of Earl Dixon. As a re-
sult of the obvious discrepancy in the testimony of these individuals
the committee referred all of the testimony relating to this situation
to the Department of Justice for its consideration as to perjury.

                  State of Califorxia (San Diego)

   Over the past few years the Committee on LTn- American Activities
has held hearings relating to Communist activities in the State of
California, particularly centering in the areas of Los Angeles and San
Francisco. During 1951 a subcommittee held hearings relating to
Communist activities in the San Diego, Calif., area.
  The committee added to its wealth of sworn testimony, which will
assist it in its legislative functions, a considerable volume of informa-
tion furnished by many witnesses who related their experiences as
past   Communist Party members in San    Diego.:
  One of the most significant developments    of the hearings held in
San Diego rests in the fact that as a result of
                                             the hearings which were
televised, several persons viewing the importance and fairness of the
subcommittee operations voluntarily approached the committee in
order that they might furnish information concerning their own Com-
munist Party activities and the knowledge they had thereby acquired,
6     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   The following persons gave testimony of great value to the w^ork
of the committee in its investigation of Communist activities in the
State of California     :



Ackerstein, Lynn                          Sept. 17, 1954.
Adams, George Richard Earl                Sept. 17, 1954,
Bayme,  Carol                            Apr. 21, 1954.
Eerman, Mildred                             Apr.   20,  1054.
Berniau, Philip                             Apr.   19, 1954.
Dunkel, John                                Apr.   23, 1954.
Gatewood, Ernestine                         Apr.   22, 1954.
Gatlin, Gladys                              Apr.   21, 1954.
Haddock, Benjamin Holmes                    Ftb.   1, 1954.
Hagau, Oliver "Red"                         Apr.   20, 1954.
Hamlin, Lloyd                               Apr.   21 and 22, 1954.
Hancock, Stanley B                          Feb.   24 and Mar. 1, 1954.
Lang, John                                  A.pr. 20,    1954.
Eavetch, Irving                             Apr. 23,     1954.
Eaymond, Judith                             Sept. 11,    1953 (released in 1954).
Smith, Tony                                 Apr. 21,     19.54,
Sumner, Merton     D                        Apr. 12,     1954.
Sykes, Artie                                Apr. 22,     19.54.
Taylor, Daniel    Pomeroy                   Apr. 19,     19.54.
Wereb, Stephen                              Apr. 20,     1954

                            Chicago, III.
  In March 1954, a subcommittee held hearings in Chicago, 111. In
part these hearings were a result of the continued investigation of
Communist Party activities in the Chicago area which had been
commenced by the committee in 1952.
  The subcommittee received testimony in elaboration and corrobora-
tion of previous testimony relative to the Communist control of the
Farm Equipment Workers of the United Electrical, Radio, and Ma-
chine AVorkers of America (FE-UE). This testimony was furnished
the committee by Mr. Walter W. Rmnsey. In the course of this testi-
mony Mr. Eumsey identified as a Communist, John T. Watkins, who
has served as an official of the United Farm Equipment and Metal
Workers before and after its expulsion from the CIO. The Com-
mittee investigators endeavored to locate Mr. Watkins as well as
Abe Feinglass, another union official who had been identified as a
member of the Communist Party. These eit'orts were unsuccessful
and Mr. Watkins and Mr. Feinglass were heard later in Washington,
D. C. In view of Mr. Watkins' denial of Communist Party member-
ship and his refusal to answer questions concerning individuals known
to him as being members of the Communist Party, the committee voted
to refer all testimony relating to this matter to the Department of
Justice for possible perjury prosecution and the Congress subsequently
approved the committee's recommendation that Mr. Watkins be cited
for contempt of Congress.
   Also during the course of hearings held in Chicago, valuable testi-
mony was received from Sheldon O. Collen, who recounted his ex-
periences in the Communist Party while a student at Carleton College,
Minnesota, and at the Law School, University of Chicago.
   The committee received testimony concerning the Communist
Party's early infiltration in farmers organizations and Communist
Party front activities from Mrs. Helen Wood Birnie.
   This subcommittee also had as a witness before it Mr. Vernon Todd
Eiley.
       ANNUAL REPORT,           COISIIMITTEE   ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES         7

  Vernon Todd Riley was an employee of the Federal Government
from 1942 to 1954. In December 1948, Riley was afforded his first
hearing before an agency loyalty hearing board. Transcripts of these
and subsequent hearings afforded Riley were turned over to the com-
mittee by Riley himself. The investigation which provided the basis
for Riley's hearings was conducted by the FBI under the provisions
of an Executive order.
  The transcripts furnished the committee by Riley reflected that the
major charges against him in 1948 were that           :




   (1)   A
         reiiableand confidential informant for the FBI reported that
in 1941. 1942, and 1943, while in Spokane, Wash., Riley was a member
of the   Communist        Partj'   ;



  (2)        Confidential informants also reported that Riley had attended
numerous Communist Party meetings while in Spokane                     ;


   (3) Also, while in Spokane, he was an officer in a Communist Party
group    ;



   (4) In 1943, when Riley moved to Washington, D. C, a Commu-
nist Party transfer card was made out in his name, transferring him
from a Communist Party group in Spokane, Wash., to one in Rock-
ville, Md.  A photostatic copy of this transfer card was obtained and
made     a part of Riley's record.
   In this and other loyalty board hearings, which were held in 1948,
1951, 1953, and 1954, Riley denied all these allegations, although he
admitted that he was a member of a "study group" while in Spokane.
Likewise, at all the hearings, he was cleared and retained in the employ
of the Federal Government.
   The commitee became interested in the Riley case in December 1953.
On January 27, 1954, Riley's employment with the Federal Govern-
ment was terminated, effective February 1. 1954. On March 15, 1954,
Riley appeared before the committee in Chicago, 111., at which time
he again denied Communist Party membership and the other allega-
tions.   The committee was able to obtain another witness for
the Chicago hearing who admitted having been a member of the Com-
munist Party in Spokane and having also been in the same Commu-
nist Party group with Riley.       The fact that Riley was an active
member of the Communist Party in Spokane was later substantiated
b}' the testimony of Barbara Hartle, a long-time Communist Party
functionary in the Xorthwest area. Mrs. Hartle appeared before the
committee in June 1954 in Seattle and furnished information regard-
ing Riley, plus invaluable information concerning Communist Party
activities in general in the Xorthwest area.
   The following witnesses added to the knowledge of Communist
activities in the Chicago area by their testimony         :



                                                          Date   of appearance

Birnie, Mrs. Helen       Wood                                 Mar. IG, 1954.
Collen, Sheklon O                                                 Do.
Hauson, Mrs. Lois Janet                                       Mar. 15, 1954.
Rumsey, Walter       W                                        Mar. 16, 1954.


                                   Dattox, Ohio, Area

  Continuing the committee's investigation of Communist infiltration
                                                         were held
in basic industries throughout the United States, hearings
in Dayton, Ohio, September 13, 14, and 15 of this year.  The com-
mittee was fortunate in having the testimony of one Arthur Paul
8        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON                      UN-.\TvIERICAN ACTIVITIES


Strimk, who had for more than 7 years served as
                                                  financial secretary
for the Dayton Communist Party while acting as an undercover agent
for the Federal Burean of Investigation. Mr. Strunk was not only
able to give the committee a complete picture of the activities of the
Communist Party in the Dayton area since 1945, but was also able to
document and completely expose the part played by the Communist
Party in the Univis Lens strike in 1948.
  Mr. Strunk testified as follows concerning the control exercised
by the Communist Party in connection with
                                           this strike                           :




  Mr. Strunk. As far as I recall, the Fuivis Lens strike started the beginning of
May. In the middle of June, the L'E International sent several fellows into
Dayton to help in the strategy of this strike.
  Mr. Tavenner. Excuse me. Who sent them in?
  Mr. Strunk. The international.
  Mr. Tavenner. Yes.
  Mr. Strunk. Should I mention the members which were present and v.'orked
during the Univis Lens strike?
  Mr. Tavenner. Just describe the whole thing in any way that it occurs to you.
  Mr. Strunk. Active during the Univis Lens strike was Kirkendall, Gartield,
Hirschberg, Payne, Mitchell, Pearl Hupraan, Melvin Hupmau, Bebe Ober,
Lohman, Louis Kaplan, Lem Markland, Andy Caulder, secretary, 768; Julie
Jacobs, Irene Jacobs, Paul Dunnian, Joe Brandt, INIartin Chancey,
                                                                    Robert Harri-
son, Richard Kent.     These people were all on my list, Communist Party member-
ship list, for the purpose of collectiuj; dues from them.
  Mr. Tavenner. I see. The people whose names you have given now are those
that members of the committee requested that you prepare?
  Mr. Strunk. Those people were all very active during the Univis Lens strike.
During the strike the Communist Party in Cleveland, Ohio, sent in Joe Brandt and
Martin Chancey. Once or twice a week they contacted me
  Mr. Tavenner. Who contacted you once or twice a week?
  Mr. Strunk. Those two men sent in from the Communist State office in
•




Cleveland.
  Mr.   Tavenner. Yes.
  Mr.   Stkunk. Which were Joe Brandt and Martin Chancey.
  Mr.   Tavenner. Yes.
  Mr.   Strunk. Joe Brandt was the labor relations secretary for the Communist
Party   for the State of Ohio. Once or twice a week, either Joe Brandt or Martin
Chancey came in. I was a trusted person, contacted me, and I had to pull strings
and get contact with other union officials like Garfield and Hirschberg. The
same met secretly in my home, or in cars, and discussed strategy of the Univis
Lens strike.                                                           ,  „•   i.    .


  Mr. Tavenner. In other words, the two individuals you mentioned, Hirsch-
berg and Hashmall, were serving
  Mr. Strunk. Martin Chancey.
  Mr. Tavenner. Who were the two people working on th's staff, strategy staff,
who were being contacted by Brandt and Martin Chancey?
  Mr. Strunk. Arthur Garfield and Hirschberg.
  Mr. Taven.ner. In other words, those
  Mr. Strunk. And Louis Kaplan.
  Mr. Tavenner. They were receiving their directions from Communist Party
headquarters in Cleveland. Is that what you mean to say?
  Mr. Stkunk. Right, direct. Another person that had a lot of influence, Lou
Secundy, who was the full paid organizer for the Dayton Communist Party,
                                                                              for
the Dayton section. He was sitting in a lot of times in meetings when Joe
                                                                          Brandt
or Martin Chancey     contacted Garfield and Hirschberg.
  ]\Ir. Tavenner. You say when Martin Chancey and Joe
                                                          Brandt wanted to get in
touch with Garfield and Hirschberg                                                       .


  Mr. Strunk. He called on me to make arrangements for the meeting, that is
    right.
      Mr. Tavenner. How often do you think that occurred?
      Mr. Strunk. At least once a week, sometimes twice a week, during the strike
    when     the international sent the staff   in,   after   June   15, 1948.
      Mr. Tavenner. On up until the 1st of August?
      Mr. Strunk. The end of the strike.
        AKNTUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAX ACTIVITIES                            9

  Mr.   Tavenneh. The end of the strike?
  Mr.   Stijunk. Correct.
  Mr.   Tavexner. And some of of those secret meetings were held         in    your home?
  Mr.   Strunk. That is right.
  In connection with the role of the Communist Party in the Univis
Lens strike, your committee was again fortunate in having the testi-
mony of oneLeothar "Wornstaft", one of the few non-Communist mem-
bers of the strike strategy of the UE during this strike. Mr. Worn-
staff testified      concerning the strike as follows       :



  Mr. WoKXSTAFF. Well, I do know that we used to hold these strategy meetings
in the evenings.   Sometimes we would get out of these meetings as late as mid-
night or 1 o'clock in the morning, at which time I would take Mr. Kaplan home.
He tlien lived out on Fairview Avenue. I would pick him up at 5 o'clock in the
morning to go to the picket line. He would tell me on the way to the picket line
that all of the strategy that was planned last evening is called off. So I would
question him about who called off the particular strategy that we had set up the
night hefore. He said. "Well, we had a meeting at so-and-so time this morning."
I asked him where.    He said at somebody's restaurant or some other place about
the city. I asked him who was there in attendance, and he was always very
evasive about his answers. I could never pin him down as to who was changing
the strategy that had been set down the night before.
  Mr. SciiEREK. That strategy was changed from the time they left you off at
your home around midnight
  Mr. WoKXSTAFF. I left him off around midnight until 1 o'clock and the strategy
was changed from that time until 5 o'clock in the morning, at which time we
went    to the picket line.
  Mr. Walter. There was actually a change in the strategy?
  IMr. WoRXSTAFF. Yes very much so.
                               ;



  Mr. ScHERER. How often did that happen?
  IVIr. WoRNsTAFF. That happened on 3 or 4 different occasions.
  Mr. Clardy. Did he then outline to you what the new strategy was to be?
  Mr. WoKNSTAFF. No he didn't.
                           ;



  Mr. Clardy. Merely junked what you had agreed on the night before?
  Mr. WoRNSTAFF. That is correct.

  During hearings of your committee held in Seattle, "Wash., an
affirmative vote w-as taken concerning the subpenaing of former Con-
gressman Hugh DeLacy at the earliest practicable time. Mr. DeLacy
was identifiecl by Mrs. Barbara Hartle during the Seattle hearings.
The investigation in the Ohio area developed the fact that Mr. DeLacy
was than a resident of Cleveland, Ohio, and had for several years
served as president of the Progressive Party for that State. Mr.
DeLacy relied upon the fifth amendment when questioned by the com-
mittee concerning his present or past affiliation with the Communist
Party.
  A sample of his answers is quoted for your information                   :




  Mr. DeLacy. Then, Mr. Chairman, under the existing laws which Congress
has passed and the President signed, and which make the position of this party
to which she belonged quite dubious, and under the first amendment to the Con-
stitution, which gives us all the right to free speech, to freedom of assembly
peaceably, to petition for address of grievances, and under the fifth amendment,
which gives us the right to not to testify against ourselves, nor to be deprived
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law, I must respectfully decline
to answer the question.
  ]Mr. ScHERER. You have, I suppose, properly invoked the fifth amendment, but
not the first amendment. Will you proceed to the next question?
   Mr. Walter. Just at this point it might be interesting for me to call your atten-
tion to the fifth amendment. This is a pamphlet issued by the UE, Radio and
Machine Workers of America, UE, 11 East 51st Street. Here is the way they
quote the    fifth   amendment     :


   ''Nor shall be compelled iu         any criminal case   to be a witness against   him-
self—"
10    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

and so on. You will note here that this prohilntion against compulsion is in a
criminal case. This not only is not a criminal case, but it is not a criminal
case at all. Certainly admitting knowing this woman could in no wise involve
you in a criminal case, even under the new laws which I assisted as a member
of the Judicial Committee in drafting, it certainly seems to me. Dr. DeLacy,
that your objection as far as the fifth amendment is concerned is not well taken.
Of course, it is upto you.
  Mr. DeLacy. I    think, Mr. Chairman, in view of what I have stated, I should
persist in my position.
  Mr. Walter. You feel that to answer this question as to whether or not you
know this Barbara Haitle would subject you to prosecution in a criminal case?
  Mr. DeLacy. I appreciate your kind intent, Mr. V.'alter. As to why I might
invoke tlie privilege
  Mr. Walter. That is, of course, up to yuu. That is your business.
  The committee has become increasingly aware of the ability of for-
mer members of the Communist Party to transfer their domicile more
or less at will in an attempt to escape investigation and/or directly
testifying before the committee.
   Such is the case of one Lillian Brill Clott, an employee of the Hun-
garian People's Eepublic while in Washington, D. C., who was able to
obtain employment in Columbus, Ohio, with a public relations firm,
after being identified as a former member of the Communist
                                                               Party by
Mary Stalcup Markward. Her refusal to answer any and all ques-
tions relating to present or past membership in the Communist
                                                                  Party
identified her Avith the several hundred others who have
                                                            appeared be-
fore the committee in the past year and answered
                                                    similarly           :



  Mrs. Clott. I continued to work on .a part-time basis in the office of the In-
ternational Union, Mine, Mill and Sicelter Workers of America. I ceased there,
to my best recollection, in the early spring.  I think it was IMarch.   Then in
April and May, for about 2 months, I v,-orked for the Progressive Party of the
District of Columbia as an oflice worker. Then I left that and around the end
of June I went to work for the Hungarian Legation.
  Mr. Tavenner. Hungarian Legation?
  Mrs. Clott. I remained at the Hungarian Legation through 1949 until around
the end of August, I think it was about the 31st of August. Then in September,
I went to work for the, on a part-time basis, for the Washington Cooperative
Book Shop.
  Mr. ScHERER. What bookshop is that?
  Mrs. Clott. The Washington Coopersitive Book Shop.
  Mr. Tavenner. What was the nature of your work there?
  Mrs. Clott. Well, there I sold books, typed any letters that were necessary to
be typewritten.
  Mr. Tavenner. Did you have anything to do with the maintenance of the record
of membership of that organization?
  Mrs. ('lott. X(i I didn't have anytliing to do with that.
                      ;


  Sir. Tavenner. In what year was that?
  Mrs. Clott. That I went to work for them?
  Mr. Tavenner. Yes.
  Mrs. Clott. I just stated   it   was,   I think,   around September of 1949.   That
was my   best recollection.
  Mr. Tavenner. You were aware at that time that it had been cited by the
Attoi'uey General as a Communist-front organization were you not?
                                                          ;

  Mrs. ('LOTT. Yes I was aware of it.
                          :



  Mr. Tavenner. That made no difference to you?
  Mrs. Clott. I never did accept the right of the Attorney General to tell people
what organizations they can or cannot belong to, and I still don't.
  j\Ir. Tavenner. Did you also belong to the Communist Party in Washington at
that time?
  Mrs. Clott. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the first
amendment and the fifth amendment privilege.
  Mr. Tavenner. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you
                                                      —
were working in various capacities in Chicago let's confine it to district 7 of
the UE.
          ANNUAL RErOKT, COMAIITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                             11

  Mrs. Clott.    I decliue to   answer that question on the   first   and   fifth   amendment
privilege.
  Mr. Tavenner. While in "Washington, did you become acquainted with Mary
Stalcup Markward?
  Mrs. Clott. It has been well known in the papers that Mrs. Markward, accord-
ing to what I read, is a professional paid informer and under the circumstances
I must invoke the first amendment and the fifth amendment.
  i\!r. Tavenner. By refusing to answer whether you were acquainted with her
or not?
  Mrs. Clott. By refusing to answer that question.
  Mr. ScHERER. IMarkward, for the record, was an undercover agent for the FBI
for a number of years in the District of Columbia.
  Mrs. Clott. I think it could be noted for the record, too, from what I read in
the papers that Mrs. Markward-
  Mr. SciiERER. If the witness please            •




  IMrs. Clott. Lied.
  Mr. ScHERER. There is no question before you.
  Mrs. Clott. She has never bt'en prosecuted for perjury.                      She said she
worked
      ScHERER. Witness, I have instructed you not to answer.
  ]\!r.
  Mrs. Clott. Yes, Mr. Chairman.
  Mr. ScHERER. There is no question before you. You refused to answer the
question.
  Mrs. Clott. I merely felt if you inserted some knowledge of her I could also
insert some knowledge of her.
  ]Mr. Clardy. Witness, you heard the chairman's instructions.
  Mrs. Clott. I was merely explaining. I will be quiet.
  Mr. Tavenner. Were you a member at any time while in Washington of the
Community Club of the Communist Party?
  Mrs. Clott. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the first amend-
ment and the    fifth   amendment   privilege.
   Mr. Taven^ek. According to the testimony of Mrs. Markward, you were
dropped from the Communist Party rolls at the time that you were an employee
in the Legation that you spoke of.  I believe you said it was the Hungarian Lega-
tion.  Will you tell the committee about that?
   Mrs. Clott. I decline to answer that question on the grounds of the first a-nd
fifth amendments.

  During your committee's hearings in Dayton, Ohio, several wit-
nesses connected with various institutions of higher learning in the
United States were subpenaed. It was regretted that both Mr. Lee
Lorch of Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn., and Robert M. Metcalf,
of Antioch College, refused to cooperate with the committee and give
us the benefit of their knowledge concerning the operations of the
Communist Party.
  Mr. Lorch testified that he was a member of the National Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics in 1946, and that prior to that had been
employed by tlie same committee at Langley Field, Va.
   Mr, Lorch in later testimony, refused on grounds of the first and
fifth amendments, excluding the section relating to self-incrimination,
to answer all questions relating to alleged membership in the Com-
munist Party during this and subsequent periods, up until his em-
ployment at Fisk University in 1952.
  ]\Ir.iMetcalf readily admitted his participation in a Communist
group     Antioch College, in the fall of 1945, and the spring of the
           at
following year. Plowever, he refused to give your committee the
identity of any of the individuals vvith wdiom he met during these
periods.
  At the closing of all hearings of your committee, the chairman of
the committee or subcommittee makes available an opportunity for
any person named during the committee hearings to deny or explain
any of the testimony taken during that or previous hearings. Such
12         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

an invitation was extended by Congressman Scherer at the close of
the Dayton hearings.  No one came forward and tlie hearings were
officially concluded.
  However, immediately following the conclusion of the hearings,
one Dwight Williamson, mentioned in previous testimony of Arthur
Strunk as having been a member of the Communist Party, came for-
ward to explain his membership. Mr. Scherer reopened the hearing
and Mr. Williamson testified as follows       :



   Mr. Tavenner. Mr. Williamson, you were identified during the course of the
testimony here as having been a member of the Communist Party, and we under-
stood that you desired to appear before the committee and state what the facts
are relating to your former Communist Party membership.
   Mr. Williamson. That is right.
   Mr. Tavenner. So I want to give you the opportunity now to either deny,
confirm it, or make such explanation as might be consistent with the facts.
   Mr. Williamson. That is right. I was in for two periods, the period from
approximately 19.38 or 1939 until 1942 again from 1950, late in the year
                                         ;
                                                                                —
possibly Thanksgiving time, maybe Christmas time; I know it was late in the
fall of 1950  —until early spring 195.3.
   Mr. Tavenner. You have been a member then, as late as the spring of 19.53?
   Mr. Williamson. Well, it is a little hard to explain how I left. It was a
gradual drifting away. The next contact I had, I know it was in the spring
of 1953, the next contact I had I was told that I had owed 10 months' dues $10
apiece, which would be $100 plus $50 for a fund which would make it $150.
   Mr. Tavenner. I am sorry. Will you speak up a little louder? I didn't hear
you.
  Mr. Williamson. I say, the reason I know that it was in the spring of 1953,
is because in February 1954, I was notified I was in arrears 10 months' dues,
which would amount to $100 and at $10 a month.
  Mr. Tavenner. Well, if you were a member as late as the spring of 1953, the
Communist Party would have been divided at that time for security reasons into
small groups.     Isn't that true?
       Williamson. That is correct.
     Mr.
       Tavenner. Were you a memlter of a small group of 3 or 4 members?
     Mr.
       Williamson. Yes two small groups at various times.
     Mr.                   ;


       Tavenner. You have belonged to two small groups?
     Mr.
       Williamson. That is right.
     Mr.
     Mr.Tavenner. Tell the committee, plea.se, how the whole plan of operating
the Communist Party was during that period, as late as 1953.
  Mr. Williamson. I don't quite understand what you mean.
  Mr. Tavenner. I mean, tell us how the party was divided into these small
groups, and how they met, and how Communist Party information was imparted
to its members, and any other information that you can give us about it.
  Mr. Williamson. Well, these groups were Frigidaire groups, and they were
varied as to membership. Those from one group seemed at one time to be in
one group, and one time to be in another group. Meetings were sometimes held
in my house, Strunk's house, and two times, I think, at my house.        In good
weather they were out in the open, public parks.
  Mr. Tavenner. But those meetings were very secret?
  Mr. Williamson. Oh, yes nobody but the membership of the party was
                                   ;



allowed to attend that meeting.
  Mr. Tavenner. Who were the members of your small group?
  Mr. Williamson. Well, on one group there was Lance, I don't know his first
name. He is since dead Harry McGill, myself.
                               ;


  Mr. Tavenner. I didn't get that name.
  Mr. Williamson. Harry McGill and myself. And the other group at a later
date, there was Roger Dunham, Red Hupman, myself, and in both of these
groups the organizer, Lou somebody or other, took charge of both of them.
  Mr. Tavenner. I didn't understand the name of the organizer.
                                                         —
  Mr. Williamson. All I can tell you is Lou. I couldn't I don't actually know
his last name. I never seen it and never heard it. It is Lou, that is all I know.
  I\Ir. Tavenner. What was the name of the        Hupman who was   a   member   of
your group?
  Mr. Williamson. Melvin.
             ANNUAL REPORT,        CO:MjMITTEE    ON UN-AMERICAN            ACTIVITIES   13

  ]Mr.       Tavennkr. he the same person who was indicted and tried recently
                         Is
for viohition of the Taft-Hartley Act?
  llr. Williamson. That is right, but I have no knowledge he violated the Taft-
H;utley Act.
  Mr. Tavexner. You stated that in 1954 you received a notice that you were in
an ears in your dues.
  Mr. Williamson. That Is right.
  Jlr. Tavlnner. In your dues to the amount of about $10?
  Mr. Williamson. Ko, about $100.
  Mr. Tavenner. One hundred dollars. Over a period of 10 months, I think you
sa ;d   ?
     Mr. WiLiiAMsoN. That         is right.
        Tavennek. Well, what war; the amount of dues that you were required
     ;\Ir.
to pay?
  ^Ir. WiLLL\MsoN.   The last time I paid dues, it was $2 per month. At the time
I was told I was in arrears, they were going to reregister me, I owed them .$100
for 10 months" dues, $10 per month.
  Mr. Tavenner. V\'ell, do you know for what purpose that money was being
raised or used?
       Williamson. That amount, no.
     Jlr.
  Mr. Tavenner. Were you requested to make contributions for any special proj-
ects or purposes of the Communist Party?
  Mr. Williamson. Yes. They were for funds, and seme type of a fund that is
statewide. I don't know the name of it. I know tlie mon-  was, a certain amount
                                                                        .


stayed in the city of Dayton, a certain amount was sent to the State.
  Mr. Tavenner. I 'ni interested in the fact that you were a member and then
dropped out and still went back again into the Communist Party. What was
the explanation for that?
   Mr. Williamson. I dropped out in 1942 for ideological reasons, and in 1950,
Frigidaire
  Mr. ScHEKER. Will you raise your voice a little bit?
  Mr. Williamson. Certainly. Frigidaire became involved in an inner union
strife.  Since I had been a member of the UE in 1942, my sympathy was in that
direction. I supported the UE in the inner-plant strife, inner-union strife. At
the close of the struggle, the cleavage in tiie plant was so great that there was
hardly anybody left for me to talk to, a':d I was as.sociated very closely with
the UE division in the Frigidaire plant. Gradually I drew closer and closer and
was invited back in, and reentered the party, and as I stated, in the fall or
winter, I know it was around Thanksgivingtime 19r)0. I think that is the
year the strike was in the spring, and that was the next winter.
  Mr. Tavenner. Why was it you dr.^pped out in 1953?
  Mr. Williamson. Just general lack of interest. That is, for a while I was
quite active. I attended meetings maybe twice a week. Then I drifted further
away, once a month, or whenever they could get in touch with me.
  Mr. Tavenner. Is there anything else you would like to say to the '"ommittee
regarding your membership in the Communist Party, former membership in the
Communist Party?
  Mr. Williamson. In what            line?
  Mr. Tavenner. Any line. I mean, you have asked to appear here voluntarily
because your name was mentioned here adversely, and I just want to make cei"-
taiu that you have told the committee all you have in mind.
  Mr. Williamson. No, that is all I have to state. So far as I am concerned,
there was no subversion on my part or the part of anyone that I was in connec-
tion with. Everyone so far as I know were loyal American citizens. There were
no statements ever made by anyone derogatory to the United States of America.
We were never asked to spy upon anybody, any group that I was in, or any
time, we were never asked or expected to furnish information.        Most of the
time was spent in study. I will say 50 percent, 70 percent of most meetings were
study. The rest news collection and literature.

     The following            witnesses jrave testimony regarding           Communist    ac-
tivities in the      Dayton, Ohio, area       :




Miniard, Marvin          M                        Sept.   14,   1954.
Ober, John                                        Sept.   15,   1954,
Ober, Bebe                                        Sept.   15,   1954.
Strunk, Arthur Paul                               Sept.   13,   1954.
Williamson, Dwight                                Sept.   15,   1954.
14      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                            District or Columbia

     OnJuly 14 and 15, 1954, the committee held additional hearings
dealing with Communist Party activities in Washington, D. C.
                                                               These
hearings represented the committee's continued investigation of this
sulbject following the valuable testimony of Mrs. Mary Stalcup
                                                               Mark-
ward given to the committee in 1951 wherein she exposed the inner
workings of the Communist Partv in the District of Columbia from
1943 to 1949.
  The committee called 11 witnesses from the District of Columbia
area in the sincere belief that they possessed knowledge of current
or recent Communist Party activities in the District of Columbia.
Each of these individuals had been identified in sworn testimony
before the committee as having been an active member of the Com-
munist Party in the District of Columbia. These individuals were
subpenaed and asked to assist the committee in its investigation of
Communist Party activities in the District of Columbia. At the time
of their examination on this subject, each relied upon the fifth amend-
ment when asked       to give information pertaining to their Communist
Party     activities in the District of Columbia or any knowledge they
possessed regarding  communism         in the    United States.
     Mary Stalcup Markward was         the only cooperative witness in this
area.     She   testified in executive session   on June   11, 1951.   This   testi-

mony was released on July       7, 1951,   but not printed until June 23, 1954.

                                     Florida
  The House Committee on Un-American Activities held hearings in
Miami, Fla., on November 29 and 30, and December 1, 1954, with a
view to ascertaining the scope and success of subversive infiltration in
Miami, the State of Florida, and the great southeastern section of the
United States.
  The committee received valuable testimony from Edwin E. Waller,
Ralph V. Long, Raul Vidal, Jose D. Tomargo, Jr., Louis J. Popps,
Hilda Shlafrock, and James Nimmo, all of whom testified about Com-
munist activities and infiltration not only in Miami but throughout
the southeastern section of this country.
  Seven other individuals, identified as having been members of the
Communist Party, appeared before the committee and refused to af-
firm or deny their Communist Party membership. One person denied
Communist Party membership.
                          Michigan
  The committee's hearings in Michigan during 1954 were held in
Detroit, Lansing, and Flint; 12 of the subpenaed witnesses
                                                           not heard
during May were called to give testimony in Washington, D. C,
                                                                   in
November. In addition to this, the committee, during the past year,
heard testimony from Merton Sumner, who was a member of the
Communist Party during his period of residence in Grand Rapids,
                                                         of the Com-
Mich., and from JFrancis X. Crowley, who was a member
munist Party while a student at the University of Michigan at Ann
Arbor.
  These hearings could be properly considered as a continuation of
the hearings which the Committee on Un-American Activities held in
Detroit, Mich., in 1952. As a
                              matter of fact, in 1952 the committee
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     15

reported that during    its   investigation the identity of over 600 individ-
      Communist Party members was obtained.
uals as
  The 1954 hearings were set up by the committee      in order to demon-
strate to the people of Michigan the fields of concentration of the Com-
munist Party in the jNIichigan area, and the identity of those individ-
uals responsible for its success. The concentration of the Communist
Party as outlined b}^ this report is not the figment of a dream by the
connnittee but comes directly from the Communist Party itself. This
concentration is set forth in a directive to all Communist groups, sec-
tions, commissions, and departments, which the committee obtained
during its investigation. This directive, while intending to advertise
the Communist Party as an organization interested in furthering the
trade-union movement, falsifies its own advertisement by placing all
emphasis on the need to repeal all laws used against the Communist
Party and its members, including the Smith Act, the non-Communist
affidavit section of the Taft-Hartley law and the Walter-McCarran
Immigration Act. Of secondaiy importance in the directive, but
equally stressed, is what the Communists refer to as "the People's
Peace" program. This program is set forth as a campaign against
KATO, friendship with the Soviet Union, and the opening of trade
channels with the "People's Democracies," China, and the Soviet
Union.
  The Communist       Party, in    its directive, sets   forth that the accom-
plishment of    program can be achieved only through a successful
                its
concentration in the auto industry. It reminds Communist Party
members that concentration in the auto industry is not the function
only of those Communist employees within the industry but, rather,
thatit is the responsibility of all Communists.
  In 1952, the connnittee saw signs and had partial evidence of the
Communist Party moving its members from white-collar and profes-
sional positions into the auto industry from other geographical loca-
tions in the United States. The directive of the Communist Party on
concentration in the auto industry gives a clue as to why, and this is
the reason the committee devoted a portion of its investigation and
hearings to the city of Flint. In the directive, the Communist Party
called for a drastic improvement in the work among General Motors
workers. The directive states :
  " * *
         Flint is the key to moving the GM division of the UAW, the division
which Rputher heads and therefore the liey to striliing a powerful blow against
sofial democracy. Whatever develops in Flint has great influence on the entire
UAW.
  * * * Where
                party work was on a relatively higher level as in Ford, the anti-
Reuther strength was greatest. In G^I, our main national concentration sector,
the progressives were weakest of all. * * * It's therefore clear that we need a
drastic improvement in our work in auto, in the first place in our work in Gil,
without in any way curtailing our work in Ford which remains our main con-
centration point in ^Michigan's Wayne County.
  To strengthen itself within General Motors, the Communist Party
in 1919 issued instructions to its members to drop employment in non-
basic industries, if they were presently emploj'ed, and urged the Com-
munist members in colleges to seek basic-industry employment, even
though their educational training qualified them for a higher type of
employment.
  During the Flint hearings, members of the Communist Party, some
with college degrees, were found employed on General Motors assem-
16   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

bly lines. Not only were they employed, but the committee found
that many of the Communists subpenaed before it went so far as to
cover up their college education or degrees and resorted to the manu-
facturing of previous employment.
  One witness, Marvin M. Engel, on his application for employment
with the Chevrolet Motor Division of General Motors, claimed no
college education when, as a matter of fact, he had received a social-
science degree from the City College of New York.        As previous
employment, he listed the Universal Fence Co. of Detroit as being his
employer for some 30 months. Sidney Linn, signing as an officer of
the Universal Fence Co., confirmed Engel's 30-month employment
with his concern. Yet, the truth of the matter was that Engel had
never been employed by the Universal Fence Co., according to his
own sworn testimony before the committee. Whether there is a
bearing, the committee has no proof, but sworn testimony before the
committee identified both Engel and Linn as members of the Com-
munist Party in INIichigan.
  Other illustrations similar to that of Engel were reproduced
throughout the jMichigan hearings. The committee is of the opinion
that these young Communists were directed into Michigan for the
purpose of fulfilling the Communist dream, namely the need for "a
drastic improvement in our [Communist Party] work in auto."
  Communist Party colonizers, similar to the 25 exposed in Flint and
other Michigan hearings, were the main target of the committee's 1954
investigation.    Lack of adequate investigative personnel made it
impossible to expose fully the infiltration in ]\[ichigan. Left in a
pending stage were partial identities of some 75 other members of
the Communist Party sent into the Michigan area for the purpose of
building up the Communist Party's concentration within the auto
industry.    The committee regrets that it was unable to complete its
investigation in this field, but, at the same time, it feels that, if indus-
try and labor would concern themselves more with the infiltration into
their midst of i^otential Communist saboteurs, they could be removed
from the auto industry without need of congressional investigation.
  The Communist Party directive, in outlining the role to be played
by the entire membership of the Communist Party in its concentration
in auto, set forth the need to organize for peace (Soviet-proposed),
for activities in political subdivisions surrounding Detroit, and for
propagandizing among auto workers' wives and children with instru-
ments such as the INIichigan Worker and other Communist publi-
cations.
  The bulk of the witnesses heard in Detroit, Mich., and later in
Washington, D. C, were called to ascertain and expose the activities of
the Conununist Party in these broad fields. Joseph Chrin, who was
shown by sworn testimony to have been a member of the Communist
Party, was the leader of the Down River Citizens Committee.             The
Down River Citizens Committee operated in the communities heavily
populated hj Ford workers. It advertised as a political organization
interested in the betterment of the Down River community.            In fact
and in practice, as set forth by sworn testimony, the Down River
Citizens Committee was solely a vehicle of the Communist Party. Its
program, while supporting many worthy issues and candidates for
public office, was nevertheless geared to fulfill the objectives of the
Communist Party. Harold Robertson, who was identified as a meiri-i
     ANZSrUAL REPORT,       COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                 17

ber of the    Communist Party   living in Inkster, Midi., was found to
have been    candidate for political oflice in his community and also a
             a
political appointee to the school board.
   Durino- the committee's investigation, it uncovered members of the
Communist Party holding       infiuential positions in the school systems
of Detroit and other communities.        IMost of the teachers subpenaed
before the committee refused to answer questions with respect to their
membership in the Communist Party, on the ground that to do so
would tend to incriminate them. Most of the teachers called have
been suspended or permanently removed from their positions.             The
Committee on Un-American Activities approves of this action because
the committee has found that the delivery of a student into the tute-
lage of a member of the Communist Party has been responsible for the
destruction of thousands of American homes.          It is horrible enough
to lose 13 Americans to Red China as a result of a war, especially when
the war was not of America's choosing.         It is far more horrible to
lose one American to the Communist conspiracy through a teacher
in a free educational institution of America.
   As a result of the hearings held in Michigan in 1952 and again in
1954, the Committee on Un-American Activities calls upon the Amer-
ican labor movement, in addition to its ever increased vigilance
toward communism, to amend its constitutions where necessary in.
order to deny membership to a member of the Communist Party or
any other group which dedicates itself to the destruction of America's
waV of life. It is certainly not within the best interests of the security
of the United States, nor of the interest of the unions, to permit a
member of the Communist Party or any other totalitarian party to
work 8 hours a day in an American industry with the protection
of a union contract and, at the same time, supply him with a captive
audience of thousands through which he can preach his program
of destruction. It is said that the worker is far too smart to be
suckered into accepting the Communist harangue. It is admitted that
the American worker, through education on the evils of communism
and other totalitarianisms by both his union and his employer, has
more knowledge on the subject today than at any time during his
life.  Xevertheless, the Communist Party is receiving new recruits
daily from the ranks of labor, admittedly not so many as
                                                                in the past.
It is difficult to believe, however, that tliis recruitment would be as
great if Communist Party organizers and advocates
                                                             were removed
from the captive audience which union and industry place around them
in the shop.
   The testimony of the following witnesses added much to the infor-
mation of the committee regarding the scope of Communist activities
in the State of ]SIichigan    :




Baldwin, Berenieee                                       ^^iiy   "J".   1054.
Churchill, Beatrice                                      May     12, 19.")4.
Dalv, Francis Martin, Jr                                 Apr.    30, 19.14.
Donnelly, Herbert       H                                May     14, 1954.
Johnson, William H. (Bill)                               May     4, 19.j4.

Klein,   Lawrence   R                                    Apr. 30, 1954.
Mikkelsen, Harold       M                                May     4, 19.-)4.

Santwire, Milton .Toseph                                 Apr.    2S, 1954.
Schemanske, Stephen J                                    Apr.    29, 1954.
Stepanchenko, Frank                                      Apr.    29, 19.-)4.
Witness   X—                                             Apr.    30, 1954.
18     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                          Pacific Northwest        Area

                                   (Seattle)

  In June 1954 the House Committee on Un-American activities for
the first time held hearings in the Pacific Northwest area of the
United States. That these hearings were met with the approval of
the people living in that important area is stressed in the fact that the
committee received telegrams from virtually every non-Communist
labor organization in the Seattle area supporting and encouraging the
committee's functions.
  The committee was fortunate in receiving testimony from a witness
whose knowledge of Communist Party activities was current almost
to the date of the hearings.    The committee received lengthy testi-
mony from INIrs. Barbara Hartle, who had been a member and official
of the Communist Party in the Pacific Northwest area_ from 1933
mitil early 1951 and gained a position of such importance in the Com-
munist Party that the Government of the United States arrested her on
September 17, 1952, on the charge that she had violated the provisions
of the Smith Act. Mrs. Hartle was later convicted in Federal court
and was under sentence at the time she was subpenaed to testify before
this committee.   Mrs. Hartle explained that while there had been oc-
casions of disillusionment in the past she had really recognized thetrue
purposes of the Communist Party and its lack
                                                  of interest in the indi-
vidual members during the course of the Smith Act trial. IMrs.
Hartle stated that she had recognized that the Communist Party
efforts to insure that she would maintain a party position in her
defense was in reality makino- her a token of sacrifice to the party.      _


   One of the most important'items in the voluminous and informative
testimony of Mrs. Hartle was the manner in which she had
                                                                  first be-

come associated with the Communist Party. She stated that she had
first joined the Friends of the Soviet Union and that through the
knowledge of Communist Party affairs and literature available
through this Communist front she had eventually become amenable
to actual membership in the Communist Party. This testimony typi-
fies what the committee has found in so many other instances— an
individual bein^ led into actual Connnunist Party membership
throuah association in Communist-front organizations.
     The committee   is   indeed indebted to this   woman who   although she
had spent nearly 20 years       as a part of the   Communist conspiracy   rec-

ognized the dangers of the conspiracy
                                      and furnished her Government,
both this committee and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with the
wealth of knowledge she had gained concerning communism.

                           Pacific Northwest Area

                               (Portland, Oreg.)
  The House Committee on Un-American Activities held hearings in
Portland, Oreg., June 18 and 19, 1954. The hearings and investigation
centered largely around communistic infiltration of education, profes-
sional groups, and labor.    The committee received valuable testi-
mony from Homer LeBoy Owen, Barbara Hartle, and Robert Wishart
Canon, all of whom testified about Communist activities and infiltra-
tion not only in Portland, Oreg., but throughout the Northwest and
           ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                  19

other parts of the United States. Some 14 other individuals identified
as having been members of the Connnunist Party appeared before the
committee and refused to affirm or deny their Communist Party mem-
bership. Several refused to answer questions pertaining to their past
education, employment, residences, and military service. Thereafter,
on July 23, 1954, after unanimous vote by the committee itself, the
House of Representatives, by vote of 376 to 0, cited Thomas G. Moore,
John Eodgers MacKenzie, Donald M. Wollam, and Herbert Simpson
for contempt of Congress.
   Pertinent parts of the testimony of Homer Owen were of consider-
able interest to the committee, particularly those comments regard-
ing his reasons for joining the Connnunist Party, his Communist
activity paralleling his Progressive Party activity, and his decisions
to break with the Communist Party. Mr. Owen testified that he was
23 years old when he joined the Communist Party in Portland, Oreg. ;
he stated he joined the party because        —
I presume that I followed the course of many people who have joined, a desire
to improve the world and to do it quickly.    In my case, I became interested
about doing something al)out racial discrimination. I came from a strict reli-
gious background and I grew frustrated with the church because I felt they
were not doing enough about it. I thought that the concept of the brotherhood
of man demanded that the churches be in the foreground to eliminate dis-
crimination * * * so in the spring of 1947 I attended a meeting at which I,
along with others, were urged to join the Communist Party * * * on the grounds
that it was the most elTective organization to work toward these principles that
we felt to be important * * * even thou'-h at that time I knew nothing al)Out
the Communist Party, I read none of its literature, I v>as urged to join because,
as I said, it could implement the progressive program most effectively and I
could learn later. * * * i must have been considerably naive.
  Mr. Owen stated that during the Communist Partv meetings which
he attended, they discussed Communist theory, the works of Marx,
Engels, Lenin, Stalin; also planned activity for particular campus
activity in relation to work in the Young Progressives on the campus.
He        stated   —
* * *  when the Wallace campaign was announced that was a primary interest
of the Communist Party as well as other progressive groups and energies were
devoted in distributing literature, organizing campus sentiment for his candidacy.
He further stated:
  Before leaving the campus in 1948, I believe it was in December of 1947, I
became chairman of Students for Wallace, and as I recall our principal effort
was a petition campai.cn urging Wallace to run. This was prior to his announc-
ing his candidacy. Since I shortly thereafter became office manager for Pro-
gressive Citizens of America, and then subsequently for the Progressive Party
of America, little became of the Students for Wallace in this part of the country.

  Mr. Owen testified that he subsequently became both a Democratic
and Progressive Party nominee for the State legislature. He was
asked how he became a nominee and who decided that he should run
for the legislature, to which he answered        :


     It   was decided
                  in a meeting of the legislative commission of the Communist
Party of Oregon. At that time, at that meeting it was decided that a slate of
Roosevelt Democrats should run and also that I should be on that ticket. * * *
They decided on the fact that there should be a slate running in the Democratic
and Progressive— this was particularly in the Democratic primaries in its original
conception, and then, of course, later the same candidates were supported and
nominated by the Progressive Party.
20         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  It is interesting to note the reasons given by Mr. Owen for his leav-
ing the Communist Party, which are quoted as follows                       :



  The reasons, firstly, I would say are the reverse of the reasons I joined. I
became more and more convinced that the Communist Party was not effectively
working for the ideals and the principles which led me to join. In fact, to the
contrary, I felt the party, the Communist Party, to be destructive in that in
every activity the emphasis was always on putting the party forward, how many
were recruited, not what was accomplished and no emphasis on what was
accomplished.
   Secondly, I also became more and more dissatisfied with the way the party
           * * * j
operated.          began also to become more critical myself of the other poli-
cies. Also there was just the desire to lead a normal life. I became completely
weary of the endless activity, ringing doorbells * * * and also of the isolation,
the growing isolation that membership in the Communist I'arty meant.
  In answer to the question as to whether the Communist Party took
up quite a bit of his life, Mr. Owen stated           :



  It seems at times practically all of it. The meetings night after night and
while going to school posed quite a problem and perpetual conflict between
trying to do a good job at school and doing this work which you felt had to be
done. * * * This [work] I think helps to delay the process of going out [of
the party]. You're so busy, you're so active that you don't have time to stop
and think. What you do read is in justification of your own day-to-day activity
of political agitation.

  You will recall that Mr. Owen stated that he became a member of the
Communist Party because he thought that the Communist Party might
contribute to doing away Avith racial discrimination. He subse-
quently stated that he found that this was not correct and further said                   :


   * * * I feel that much more had been
                                           accomplished from just the recent
Supreme Court decisions, the quiet work of people, organizations, without fan-
fare, without the tremendous publicity which always accompanies a Communist
Party approach to a problem. These other things contribute much more to the
elimination of discrimination.
  It is interesting to note how the comments of Eobert Canon regard-
ing his Communist Party activity parallel those of Mr, Owen, Mr.
Canon stated regarding Communist Party meetings                        :



  *    *   *    We
            were not encouraged to ask questions * * *, and then in the early
months of the party, we * * * were somewhat isolated. We spent most of our
time in our club meetings just discussing oui- own interest in our outside organiza-
tions,and then the party began to ask us to become more party conscious too, as
the term was, put the face of the party forward, to spend more and more of our
time in actual party work.
  We were criticized, in 1948 for example, for becoming too enthusiastic about
Henry WalUice and the Progressive Party. They kept reminding us, "Henry
Wallace is not a Communist. He is a capitalist. This is a fine organization, the
Progressive Party, in getting people interested in issues, but for heaven's sake
don't go overboard for it. The Communist Party is the only one that is
significant."
  This discipline        —we   were introduced more and more     to,   the party concept of
what       is   known                             sit around a
                        as self-criticism where you              circle   and tear yourself
to pieces.
  And the ritualistic nonsense just began to pall on me. They began to be asked
to address each other as "comrade," and so forth and "tigliten, tighten, tighten
up."
  Mr. Canon further stated              :




  Yes, and they began to talk and more and more in terms of FBI, infiltrating
spies, and so oii, and the wht)le framework actually became rather foolish, as far
as I was concerned. I knew that we weren't plotting to blow up any bridges or
anything of the sort, and all of this ritual just seemed a little bit ridiculous.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                        21

   And tben, the second thing that began to push me out of the party was the
realizaion of the extent of the intolerance in the party. One of the primary rea-
sons that I was interested in the first place was because I had met a group of
people who I thought were idealistic, were ontlooking, sympathetic, and tolerant
people, broadminded people, and I came to find out that most Communists, think,
                                                                            I

are the most intolerant of all people. We began to move in a smaller and smaller
circle.  As you concentrate   on party literature, which  you are urged  to do, and
began to confine your friendship to those people who are members of the Com-
munist Party, you become excessively critical of anybody who can't go along with
you a hundred percent.
   And this was also a" period when we were moving away from the Earl Browder
idea of the so-called united front, Earl Browder's concept of working in coopera-
tion with other groups of people.     But the party was now moving to the point
where it said, "No ; we must solidify the party itself." And so there was a social
and an intellectual isolation which I resented very much, a loss of perspective.
I don't think that you can belp but lose one's perspective when you live in such an
environment.
  The party overworks you terribly. They exploit initial enthusiasms, as in the
case of Homer Owen. A perfectly fine, idealistic boy who gets interested and they
load work on him to the point where it would practically break him. Well the
same thing is true of us. We got to the point where if we stole 1 night, 1 of 7
for our family, we felt guilty for having let down the great people's movement.
   The whole thing just became irritating. I thought it v/as out of focus, out of
perspective, intolerant, and so forth. And so we really wanted to pull out in
1948; however, we were involved in the Progressive Party elections, and the
Democrat Party elections, and there was no convenient way of extricating our-
selves overnight. So far as I know, my wife and I were never expelled from the
party nor did we ever indulge in histrionics in getting up and making a tirade
against the party or anything of the sort. We more or less drifted away.

  Testimony of the following witnesses developed to a great extent
the pattern of Communist activities in the Pacific Northwest area of
the United States :
                                               Date of appearance
Backlund, Carl                              June 19, 1954.
Blodgett, Charles David                     Mar. 16, 1954.
Canon, Robert Wishart                       June 19, 1954.
Case, Victor                                June 19, 1954.
Cohen, Elizabeth Boggs                      May    28,    1954,
Costigan, Howard                            May    28,    19.54.
Davis, Ralph George                         June      1954.
                                                    19,
Dennett, Eugene V                           June      1954.
                                                    18,
Hartle, Barbara                             June 14-19, 1954.
Keller,   Abraham Charles                   June 17, 1954.
Larsen, Karley   A                          June 19, 1954.
McClaskey, Eugene Kenneth                   Oct.    1952, released in 1954.
                                                   .3,

Owen, Homer Leroy                           June      1954.
                                                    18,
Owen, Marjorie Jean (Mrs. Homer        L.   Portion of executive testimony on   June
  Owen)                                       9, 1954, released.
Redwell, Rev. Clinton                       June 16, 1954.
Sunoo, Harold    W                          June     17, 19.54.
Wildman, Leonard Basil                      May     28, 19.54.
Williams, Foster, Jr                        June     17, 1954.


                              Philadelphia, Pa.
  The House Committee on Un-American Activities commenced hear-
ings in Philadelphia, Pa., November 16 through November 18, 1953,
dealing exclusively with individuals who are either currently, or had
been, engaged as schoolteachers in Philadelphia.
  On February 16 and 17, 1954, a subcommittee of the Committee on
Un-American Activities resumed hearings in Washington, D. C,
receiving testimony from an additional group of individuals who are
22     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTWITIES

or were employed as schoolteachers in the Philadelphia area. As in
previous cases of witnesses called before the committee, these teachers
had been identified through investigation as having been members
of the Communist Party and possibly having continued their member-
ship until the present time.
  During these hearings, 18 witnesses appeared before the committee.
The majority denied present Communist Party membership but re-
fused to answer any questions regarding Communist activities prior
to their signing a loyalty oath as required by Pennsylvania State law
in the earl}- months of VJ'rI. Others refused to affirm or deny present
or past Communist Party membership. The connnittee desires to
make the observation that the total of 37 teachers from the Philadel-
phia area who appeared before the committee is a very small fraction
of the large group of teachers presently employed in Philadelphia,
Pa.,   and who   are, without any doubt, loj-al American citizens.
  ]\Irs.   Goldie E. Watson refused to answer many questions, did not
deny or affirm past Communist Party membership, and frequently
based her refusal to answer questions on her rights under the first
amendment to the Constitution.
  Dr. Wilbur Lee Mahaney, Jr., admitted         his former Communist
Party membership and associations but refused to answer further
questions regarding Conununist Party activity and Connnunist Party
members.
   Thereafter, on ^Nlay 11, 1054, after unanimous vote by the committee
itself, the House of Pe]iresentatives, by vote of lUG to 0, cited Mrs.
Goldie E. Watson and Dr. Wilbur Lee Mahaney, Jr., for contempt of
Congress.
  Dr. Mahanej' voluntarily reappeared before the committee on July
30, 1054, and testified under oath fully and freely about his former
Connnunist Party activities and associations.           Following Dr.
ISIahaney's second appearance before the connnittee and in view of
his willingness to testify, the committee voted that a letter be directed
to the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia advising
him that the committee was satisfied that Dr. Mahaney had purged
the contempt for which he had been previously cited.

EECOMMEXDATIOXS BASED UPON INVESTIGATIONS
       AND HEARINGS IN THE YEAR 1054
  jNIany of the recommendations put forth by the House Committee
on Un-American Activities for the year 1053 have already been
enacted into law in one form or another. Among them are legisla-
tion cracking down on Communist-dominated labor unions, death
penalty for espionage in }:)eacetime, immunity for witnesses appearing
before congressional committees, and the adoption of procedures
withdrawing commissions from persons in the armed services taking
the fifth amendment when questioned by a duly authorized authority
concerning membership in the Communist Party.
  In addition. Congress considered the delicate subject of outlawing
the Communist Party and has enacted a partial outlawing provision
which is now in efl'ect.
  The following recommendations are submitted based upon investi-
gations and hearings, in the year 1054.
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES           23

  The Smith    Act, passed by the Conoress in 1940, contains provi-
sions which prohibit any person from knowii]<2;ly and willfully par-
ticipating either nidividually or
                                     with a group in activities whicli
have for their purpose the overthrow or destruction of "any govern-
ment in the United States by force or violence." Since the Subversive
Activities Control Board, affirmed by the United States Court of Ap-
                                                            that the Com-
peals for the District of Columbia Circuit, has found
munist Party is a subversive organization and the testimony before
this committee has also definitely established the conspiratorial nature
of the Communist Party, the committee recommends that the Smith
Act be amended. This amendment, in the field of the law of evidence,
shou.ld provide that proof of membership in the Commmiist Party
shall constitute prima facie evidence of violation of the Smith Act.
   The committee further recommends that legislation be enacted to
permit as evidence the results of technical surveillance in matters
affecting the national security; provided that adequate safeguards
are adopted to protect the civil liberties of all citizens.
   The committee further recommends that legislation be enacted to
make it a crime for any person or persons unauthorizedly to transport
in interstate commerce any Government document falling witliin a
top-secret, secret, or confidential classification.
  The committee further recommends that legislation be enacted for-
bidding the use of the United States mails under second-class mailing
privileges to subversive publications emanating either from foreign
sources or from sources Avithin the borders of the United States. It
is also reconnneiided that the Internal Security Act of 11)50 be
amended to permit the citing of said publications as subversive.
  The committee further recommends that the Foreign Agents Reg-
istration Act of 19.38 be reexamined to determine its effectiveness in
controlling and exposing subversive activities.
  The committee further recommends that appropriate legislation be
enacted requiring an affidavit by any person bidding for a Govern-
ment contract, that he is not now and has not been within the past
10 years a member of an}- organization advocating the overthrow of
the Government h} force and violence.
                                         INDEX
                                         Individuals                    Page
Ackerstein                ,   Lynn                                          6
Adams, George Richard Earl                                                  6
Backlund, Carl                                                             21
Baldwin, Bereniece                                                         17
Bayme     ,
                  Carol                                                     6
Berman, Mildred                                                             6
Berman        ,       Philip                                                6
Birnie,       Helen            Wood                                      6, 7
Blodgett, Charles David                                                    21
Brandt, Joe                                                                 8
Canon, Robert Wishart                                  18,            20, 21
Case, Victor                                                               21
Caulder, Andy                                                                 8
Chancey Martin    ,
                                                                              8
Charles, John Patrick                                                         4
Chrin Joseph
      ,
                                                                             16
Churchill             ,
                          Beatrice                                           17
Clott, Lillian Brill                                                         10
Cohen, Elizabeth Boggs                                                       21
Collen, Sheldon O                                                        6,   7
Costigan,                 Howard                                             21
Crowley, Francis X                                                           14
Daly, Francis Martin, Jr                                                     17
Davis, Jack                                                                   4
Davis, Ralph George                                                          21
DeLacy Hugh   ,
                                                                              9
Dennett, Eugene V                                                            21
                                                                              4
Deutch, Bernhard
                                                                              5
Dixon, Earl {see Reno, Earl)
Donnelly, Herbert H                                                          17
Dunham, Roger                                                                12
                                                                              6
Dunkel, John.
                                                                              8
Dunraan, Paul
                                M..                                          16
Engel, Marvin
                                                                              "
Feinglass, Abe
Garfield, Arthur                 L                                            »
                                                                              6
Gatewood, Ernestine
                                                                              6
GatUn, Gladys
                                                                              6
Haddock, Benjamin Holmes
                                                                              6
Hagan, OHver"Red"
Hamlin, Lloyd                                                                 ^
Hancock, Stanley B                                                            ^
Hanson, Lois Janet                                                            ^
Harrison, Robert                                                             J^
Hartle, Barbara                                                  '>    -^^
                                                                             1^
                                                                              °
Hirschberg, Herbert
Hupman, Melvin                                                         ^>
                                                                             1^
                                                                              °
Hupman, Pearl (Mrs. Melvin Hupman)
                                                             -
Hutchison, John                                                               ^
Jacobs, Irene                                                                 ^
Jacobs, Julie                                                                 ^
Jandreau Leo          ,
                                                                             .^
Johnson, William                     H                                       -^^
                                                                              **
Kaplan, Louis
          i
                                             INDEX             ii



                                                          Page
Keller,          Abraham Charles..                   —      21
                                                                8
Kent, Richard
Kirkcndall, Kerrait                                             8
Klein, Joseph                                                   4
Klein, Lawrence                     R                          17
Lang, John                                                      *>


Larsen, Kailey A                                               21
Linn. Sidney                                                   Ifi

Lohman, Walter                                                  8
Loutr.Ralph V                                                  14
Lorch, Lee                                                     H
Mackenzie, John Rodgers                                        19
Mahaney, Wilbur Lee, Jr                                        22
INIarkland,                   Lem                               8
Markward, Mary Stalcup                               10, 11,   14
Marqvisee, John Edward                                          4
McClaskev, Eugene Kenneth                                      21
McGill, Harrv                                                  12
Mctcaif, Robert                     M                          11
Mikkelsen, Harold                     M                        17
Miniard, Marvin                      M                         13
Mitchell,             Johnnv                                    8
Moore, Thomas G                                                19
Nimmo, James                                                   14
Nowak, Joseph                                                   5
Ober, Bebe                                                8,   13
Ober, John                                                     13
Owen, Homer Leroy                                        18-21
Owen, Marjorie Jean (Mrs. Homer L. Owen)                    21
Patterson, Leonard                                         4,   5
Payne, Forrest                                                  8
Popps, Louis J                                                 14
Ravetch, Irviun;                                                6
Ravmond, Judith                                                 6
Redwell, Clinton                                               21
Reno, Earl (alias Earl Dixon)                                    .5


Richardson, Emmanuel Ross                                      4
Riley,Vernon Todd                                          6,  7
Robertson Harold                                              16
Rumsey Walter    ,
                          ,


                                    W                       6, 7
Santwire, -Milton Joseph                                      17
Schemanske, Stephen J                                         17
Secundy Lou       ,
                                                               8
Shlafrock Hilda       ,
                                                              14
Simpson Herbert   ,                                           19
Smith, Tony                                                    6
Stepanchenko, Frank                                           17
Strunk, Arthur Paul                                            7
Sumner, Merton                      D                     6, 14
Sunoo, Harold                       W                         21
Sy kcs Artie
         ,
                                                               6
Taylor, Daniel Pomeroy                                         6
Tomargo, Jose D., Jr                                          14
Vidal, Raul                                                   14
Waller,          Edwin E                                      14
Watkins, John T                                                6
Watson, Goldie E                                               22
Wereb Stephen,
                                                                 6
Wildman, Leonard Basil                                         21
Williams, Foster, .Jr                                          21
Williamson, Dwight                                       12, 13
Witness              X                                         17
Wollam, Donald                          M.                     19
Wornstaff Leothar         ,
                                                                9
in                                    INDEX

                           Organizations and Publications
                                                                            Page
American League Against War and Fascism                                        5
Comm unist Party                                                               2
      District of    Columbia                                          -      14
           Community Club                                                     11
     Michigan                                                                 16
     Oregon                                                                   10
Down River Citizens Committee, Detroit                                        10
Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America,
                                                   United                      9
    Local 301                                                                  4
                             Union of, CIO, Local 301
Electrical Workers, International                                              4
Ethiopian Defense Committee
                                                                               •5


Farm Equipment and Metal Workers Union, United, CIO                            6
Farm Equipment Workers of the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine
     Workers   of   America (FE-UE)                                            6
Friends of the Soviet Union...                                                18
March of Labor                                                                 "^


M ich igan Worker
                                                                              1''

Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers of America, International Union
                                                                  of          10
National Renaissance Party
                                                                              1»
                                                                               «^
Progressive Citizens of America
                                                                           1° 20.
Progressive Party of America
                                                                              l**
    District of Columbia
    Ohio                  -
                                                                              1^
                                  --                                          ^^
Students for Wallace
Union Theological Seminary
Washington Cooperative Book Shop.
                                                                              ^
                                                                              l^J
Young    Progressi ves

                                        o
