                                                                                  V

       /                                                    Union Calendar No. 803
82d Congress 2d Session                                                  House Report No.   2   516




                     ANNUAL REPORT
                                              OF THE


COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN
                                  ACTIVITIES
                          FOR THE YEAR                            1952




                                    DECEMBER         28, 1952
                                       (Original release date)


           JANUARY   3,   1953.   —Committed to the Committee of the Whole House
                     on   the State of the   Union and ordered    to be printed




                                    Prepared and released by the
COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES,                     U.S.    HOUSE OF REPRESENT ATI
                                        WASHINGTON,     D. C.
                     COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                        United States House of Representatives
                              JOHN S. WOOD,   Georgia, Chairman
FRANCIS       E.   WALTER. Pennsylvania        HAROLD H. VELDE, Illinois
MORGAN        M.   MOULDER, Missouri           BERNARD W. KEARNEY, New York
CLYDE DOYLE, California                        DONALD L. JACKSON, California
JAMES B. FRAZIER, Jr., Tennessee               CHARLES E. POTTER, 1 Michigan
                            Frank    Tavenner, Jr., Counsel
                                     S.
                            Louis   Russell, Senior Investigator
                                    J.
                            John W. Carrington, Clerk of Committee
                            Raphael I. Nixon, Director of Research

  1
      Representative Charles E. Potter resigned from the House of Representatives and took
office as a United States Senator on November 5, 1952.
         II
                                   CONTENTS
                                                                               Pag*
Statement by John      S.   Wood, chairman of the Committee on Un-American
  Activities                                                                     1
Foreword                                                                         3
Investigations and hearings in industrial areas of the United States
                                                            •
                                                                                 7
    Detroit                                                                      9
    Chicago                                                     ,
                                                                                27
    Philadelphia,    Pa                                                         34
Communist      infiltration of Hollywood motion-picture industry                40
Communist      activities among professional groups in the Los Angeles area     56
Role of the Communist press in the Communist conspiracy                         67
Communist activities among youth groups                                         69
Dr. Edward U. Condon                                                            73
Methods of Communist infiltration in the United States Government               74
The Army Signal Corps Intelligence Agency                                       75
Review of the Methodist Federation for Social Action                            76
Files and reference service                                                     77
Publications                                                                    79
Recommendations                                                                 SI
                                                                          in
                                         Union Calendar 803
82d Congress          )    HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES j  Report
  2d Session          j"                                            (   No. 2516




      COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
        ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1952


January   3,   1953.  Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State
                       of the Union and ordered to be printed




    Mr. "Wood, of Georgia, from the Committee on Un-American
                      Activities, submitted the following


                                  REPORT
                           [Pursuant to H. Res.   7,   82d Cong.]
    COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
      ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1952
  Statement by John    S. Wood, Chairman of the Committee on
                      Un-American Activities

  Since this annual report to the Congress from the Committee on
Un-American   Activities is the final one to be submitted under my
chairmanship. I wish to extend a personal message to the Congress
and the American people.
   First. I would like to express my thanks to my colleagues on the
committee for their excellent cooperation during my tenure as chair-
man. I am especially proud that there has been no occasion where
political considerations have been allowed to interfere with the prog-
ress of the committee's work.     Those of us who have devoted our
lives to public representation recognize full well the necessity and
benefit derived from our system of political parties.   We must, how-
ever, equally recognize the necessity of keeping political considera-
tions from influencing such duties as are charged to the Committee
on Un-American Activities. I can proudly state that the representa-
tion on this committee has not been bipartisan, but rather nonpartisan.
It has been Americanism against un- Americanism.       The position of
the members has not been to determine how to best serve a group or
a party, but how best to serve the interests of our United States.
  During the relativelv short existence of this countrv as a free
republic, a sizable portion of our heritage and our friends have laid
their lives down to preserve the rights and free            ich allow
us to express in the Halls of Congress the views of the people we
represent.   Our young country has faced many formidable enemies
in the past and has survived while older nations have perished.
Today we face an avowed enemy whose potential danger is probably
greater than any we have ever faced.
   From my experiences, however. I feel that we can face the future
with optimism.     In addition to an inherent love of freedom, the
American people have become aware of the efforts to subvert these
freedoms. I have been fortunate enough to observe that the American
people, once apprised of the existence of subversive influences, not
only reject them but strike out with resoluteness to destroy them.
   I am pleased to state that the committee has received complete
cooperation from responsible individuals in all segments of American
life. The realization has come that our Government, industry, labor,
and organizations can continue to exist only if free of subversive
elements.
   The attacks upon the committee are certainly no less vile nor vocif-
erous, but the sources of these attacks are now much more readily
discernible for what thev are.
2    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES             1




  I wish that upon my retirement I might be able to state that the
duties of the Committee on Un-American Activities have been com-
pleted. I regret, however, to state that this is far from the fact.
While it is true that great strides have been made, the legislative
mission of the Committee on Un-American Activities is far from com-
pleted.   The Congress must accept responsibility to act upon effective
legislation to combat subversion.
  I leave the chairmanship of this committee with the confident belief
that the Congress and the American people will continue to extend
to the committee the full support and cooperation that it needs and
deserves and has so faithfully received in the past.
                                                [s]   John   S.   Wood.
                            FOREWORD
  Pursuant to its duties to the House of Representatives, the Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities has prepared this report to reflect
the results of hearings and investigations during the year 1952. The
committee was made a standing committee of the House of Represent-
atives by Public Law 601 (sec. 121, subsec. Q(2) ) which was adopted
                                                   ,



August 2, 1946, in the Seventy-ninth Congress, and House Resolution
No. 7 of the Eighty-second Congress.
  This report to the Congress serves as notice of the extent to which
subversive activities and propaganda have been successful against
our form of government. The committee realizes that this report
embodying the results of the committee's investigations and hearings
during the past year is of singular importance. The critical nature
of the times makes it doubly important that the people and the Con-
gress be fully aware of the danger from subversive elements.
  During the past year, the committee has had the benefit of informa-
tion and testimony from several persons who at one time had been
members of the Communist Party and who, having recognized that
communism is unequivocally determined to overthrow our form of
government, broke away from the conspiracy. It must be under-
stood that these persons have not appeared before the committee for
penitent confession, but rather to furnish valuable first-hand infor-
mation concerning the Communist conspiracy. The committee realizes
that it is not an easy thing for a person who has once been a part of
such a debasing element as communism to recount his part in it.
Fortunately, however, patriotism has outweighed pride in many of
these witnesses, and they have chosen to assist the Government by
furnishing it with all possible information in their possession regarding
subversive activity. The testimony of other witnesses, while reluctant,
was nevertheless helpful in adding to the sum of knowledge now pos-
sessed by the committee and the American people.
  While the American people and their Government were fortunate to
have this testimony, some of the witnesses themselves were not. In-
stances have come to the committee's attention where several of these
witnesses have been forced from gainful employment after testifying.
Some have been released from the employment which they competently
held for years prior to their testimony. This action on the part of
present or prospective employers seems grossly unfair to the com-
mittee.   An examination of the testimony of a large group of these
witnesses conclusively reveals that they did not join the Communist
Party to participate in any action designed to overthrow the United
States.   They joined in some instances to defeat Hitler, or support
labor, and it was only long after their association with the Communist
Party that they learned the true intent and purpose of this organiza-
tion.   Every reasonable step should be taken to safeguard the eco-
nomic future of individuals who have contributed to the knowledge
now possessed by our Government concerning the efforts of organiza-
tions and individuals presently working against the security of the
United States.
  During the past year, the committee intensified its investigation of
Communist efforts and successes in infiltrating vital defense areas.
Through these investigations and hearings, it has become more ob-
                                                                 3
4      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN             ACTIVITIES

vious than ever that communism had made dangerous inroads into
several unions or union locals which are of strategic importance in
our defense effort. For the most part, union members in the United
States are completely loyal and patriotic. However, in numerous
instances, the average union member has been
                                                  unaware that, through
his own apathy for union affairs, the union or local to which he
belongs is under the domination of communism.
  The committee's investigations into communism in vital defense
areas were centralized in the past year in the areas of Detroit, Mich.,
Chicago, 111., and Philadelphia, Pa. The committee was shocked
                                                                       to
find domination of some unions and locals by the Communist con-
                                       it has been found that the Com-
spiracy. In almost every instance
munists have managed to seize control of these locals even though
their numerical strength was in minute proportion to the total mem-
bership in the unions. It has been found in some
                                                           instances that
practically  the  only  Communists     within  a local  were  individuals
holding official positions in that local. It is regrettable that in many
instances the membership of the local was unaware that its leaders were
Communists until they were identified in testimony before this com-
mittee. The committee has been charged with attacks upon labor
because of its exposure of communism in the areas mentioned above.
However, the committee appreciates, as do all Americans, the ad-
vances made by the labor movement in the United States and finds it
unfortunate that there are instances in which Communists have utilized
labor for their own nefarious ends. For this reason, the labor move-
ment itself must exhibit constant and continuing vigilance and make
every effort to remove from its ranks those elements which are domi-
nated by communism and the agents of a foreign conspiracy against
human freedom and free labor.
  One of the most important discoveries made by     this   committee grew
out of testimony taken in Philadelphia concerning the institution
and operation of a city- wide underground organization. This organi-
zation existed in the third largest city of the United States and its
membership was unknown even to the Communist Party functionaries
who were responsible for all open party activity in this area. Each
individual selected by the organizer was screened very closely in an
effort to weed out those of whom there was attached the slightest
doubt of party loyalty. After the selection of an individual, it was
his duty to disassociate himself from all other known sections of the
Communist Party, even if this action entailed the alienation of life-
long friends who might inquire as to his new party work. During this
period he was to devote himself to study and preparation for the task
ahead. All personal contact with other individuals connected with the
underground was made in public places, where it would be virtually
impossible for investigators to obtain the gist or text of discussions.
These discussions centered around the operating experiences of under-
ground movements in other cities and countries, and their application
to the Philadelphia area.     Elaborate systems of communication be-
tween these groups were devised; coded telephone calls in the dead
of night were used to announce the time and place of the next meet-
ing.   Even certain repair shops were designated as message drops to
announce important decisions affecting the operation of the under-
ground movement to others, when other means of communication had
failed.  Articles containing instructive messages were to be left to be
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN              ACTIVITIES   5

repaired and then picked up by other members. The cell or basic unit
of this underground apparatus at no time contained more than three
individuals and the structure of association pyramided so that an
individual would know no more than three other members of the
apparatus. The cell or basic group was autonomous in the respect
that all membership dues, names, and so forth, remained the prop-
erty of the basic group.  So that quick and confidential dissemination
of party information could be effected, mimeograph machines were
obtained by the underground and cached with members of this organi-
zation to insure that in event of complete destruction of all present-
day means of printing and distribution of information, the party's
work could go on. Further information relating to the aims and
purposes of this section of the Communist Party is set forth under
the subtitle "Communist Infiltration Into Basic Industries in the
Philadelphia Area."
   We must, in these days of extensive defense production, obviate the
possibility of any individual or group hampering vital production in
order to advance the cause of our enemies. The committee recognizes
that it has a serious obligation to intensify its investigations, not only
in the areas which have already been mentioned but in other areas
vital to our defenses and in which communism is exerting an influence.
   The committee ascertained during the past year that communism
has developed cells within so-called professional groups in the United
States. It has been found that within the city of Los Angeles and its
suburbs important cells of the Communist Party have been formed
and are active within the medical, legal, and journalistic profes-
sions.   The committee has had startling testimony to the effect that
in some instances members of these professions could be utilized as
espionage couriers. On this point, the committee heard testimony
that instructions had been given to Communist Party officials in Los
Angeles that, if it were necessary for the Communist Party to go
underground, the offices of Communist physicians could be used as a
clearing house for the exchange of information.        A  witness before
the committee testified that, according to the plan, a Communist official
would furnish instructions to a Communist physician, who in turn
would pass along these instructions to Communist Party members
who would visit the doctor under the guise of patients.
   The committee's investigation relating to communism in the profes-
sional groups served to strengthen the committee's position that the
National Lawyers' Guild is the "legal bulwark" of the Communist
Party. The committee received testimony that those members of the
Communist Party who were in the legal profession were required to
be members of the National Lawyers' Guild also.
   During the course of the past year, the committee continued the
investigation and hearings which first began in 1951 relating to the
scope and success of Communist infiltration into the motion-picture
industry. The committee still has a number of witnesses to be called
in connection with the investigation of the motion-picture industry.
   The committee also feels that as a result of the hearings relating to
the Communist infiltration of the motion-picture industry, that the
extensive financial reservoir which had existed in Hollywood for
Communist purposes has been greatly diminished.
   The committee has focused attention on the role that has been
played by the Communist press in the Communist conspiracy. While
it is true that the average American has never read, and probably
6     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN          ACTIVITIES

knows    little about, Communist publications in the United States, the
 committee would again like to point out that the Communist press
 plays a vital role in Communist operations not only within the United
 States but internationally as well. Through the utilization of official
 Communist Party organs such as the Daily Worker, the People's
 Daily World, and others, international communism is able to furnish
 Communist Party members within the United States the official policy
 or line that is to be followed. It has been disclosed through testimony
 that from time to time the Communist Party will set up apparently
 independent news services or news bureaus which serve as nothing
less than pipelines for official Communist direction to Communist
Party leaders in the United States.
   The Communist Party in the United States has for years directed
all-out efforts to gain control of various youth movements within the
United States. It realizes that in order to become more powerful it
must make inroads among the youth of the United States. The com-
mittee conducted several hearings which disclosed that, by and large,
American youth has repulsed Communist efforts to recruit him.
   The committee also heard during the year testimony of Dr. Ed-
ward U. Condon, former director of the National Bureau of Standards.
As a result of this hearing, the committee is of the opinion that while
it has no proof that Dr. Condon was ever a member of the Communist

Party his persistent association with people who were either disloyal
or of suspected loyalty, coupled with his public endorsement of some
of these associates in the face of unshaken testimony to the contrary
and his failure to make any inquiry to ascertain the true facts, as well
and his obvious contempt for any form of security regulations dis-
qualify him from holding any position in which he would have access
to information of a confidential or secret nature.
   The committee also, upon the basis of a petition filed by several em-
ployees of the Army Signal Corps Intelligence Agency, conducted
an investigation into charges that there were subversive elements and
security risks within that agency. As a result of the committee's
investigation it was disclosed that for a period there was a noticeable
security laxity in that agency which, on the strength of these em-
ployees' complaints, were carefully examined by Army authorities.
The committee is satisfied that, as a result of the complaints and the
committee's investigation, a much stricter security enforcement has
been effected in the Signal Corps Intelligence Agency.
   In order that the American public might fully realize that the
Methodist Federation for Social Action is using the name of one of
our largest and certainly most loyal religious bodies without authori-
zation, the committee prepared and released a report which was a
review of the Methodist Federation for Social Action.
   The committee would like to state that during this year there has
been an unprecedented demand upon its file and record service and,
more than ever before, by the executive branch of the Government.
There has been a widespread demand upon the committee for its
publications.  We    regret that in many instances publications are ex-
hausted before they are secured by all those desiring them. Wherever
possible, the committee has had additional prints made.
   In this annual report, the committee feels that the Congress and the
American people will have a much clearer and fuller picture of the suc-
cess and scope of communism in the United States by having set forth
the names and, where possible, the positions occupied by individuals
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN          ACTIVITIES     7

who have been identified   as   Communists, or former Communists, dur-
                                                        to the motion-
ing the past year. In the matter of hearings relating
picture industry  and professional groups, the committee   is including

those individuals who were named during 1951, inasmuch as these
hearings have been of a continuing nature.
  As in the past, and in accordance with provisions of applicable law,
the committee is recommending several legislative proposals. In
order that the Congress may appreciate the value of the committee's
records, there are being included all of the recommendations
                                                                  which
have been made by this and preceding committees since the Seventy-
sixth Congress.

      INVESTIGATIONS AND HEARINGS IN INDUSTRIAL
             AREAS OF THE UNITED STATES
  During the year, the committee has continued its investigation
of  Communist activity in industrial areas: Detroit, Chicago, Los
Angeles, and Philadelphia. At the same time investigations have been
continued or started in other localities.
  The committee considers investigations and hearings in the many
industrial areas to be most important. The investigations to date
have disclosed that in these areas Communist activities revolve around
the  members of the Communist Party who have infiltrated or are
controlling the labor organizations. We have found leaders of the
Communist Party on union payrolls in these areas; Communist leaders
who, while posing as trade-unionists, are directing Communist activi-
ties among youth, students, educators, professional and white-collar
workers, and all other workers, organized and unorganized.          We
have found that these same unions are the major source of revenue for
schools, newspapers, and periodicals operated and/or published by
members of the Communist Party for the purpose of furthering the
cause of communism. Of course, these vehicles of propaganda are
never identified with the Communist Party but are fraudulently
identified in some manner with labor.    This has been done in order to
brand attacks upon them as "antilabor," just as the exposure of indi-
viduals in labor unions as Communists is branded as "antilabor."
By identifying an organization or publication with labor, the Com-
munist Party has found that it is able to sell the worker on enrolling
or subscribing as a means of helping himself to become a better trade-
unionist.   The workers learn only too late that they have been in-
doctrinated with communism, some to the extent of actually joining
the Communist Party. These Communist trade-unionists are also
the creators of organizations called by innocent names but which also
have the purpose of furthering communism.
  The committee considers the failure of certain trade-unionists to rid
themselves of Communists to be a national disgrace, directly affecting
the security of the United States. This statement does not imply that
the disgrace is the fault of the average worker, for he needs
                                                              leadership
and protection in this battle. This leadership and protection have
been denied him in many instances by labor, management, and the
Government itself. Examples of this have come to light during the
committee's investigations.
   Take the case of workers employed by International Harvester in
those plants where the Farm Equipment Council of the United Elec-
trical, Radio, and Machine Workers—
                                          Independent, hereinafter re-
ferred to as UE-FE, acts as bargaining agent. Hundreds of workers
8      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

desiring to bring the membership under unions not dominated by Com-
munists have devoted their nonworking hours to acting as voluntary
organizers for non-Communist unions which they hope will supplant
UE-FE as their bargaining agent. In the plants where the other
unions have not defeated the UE-FE, these voluntary organizers have
been expelled from the Communist-dominated UE-FE and thereby
left without an agent to handle their demands or grievances.     With-
out this union representation, some management personnel has taken
advantage of these workers with the result that the workers lose almost
everything as a reward for their effort. Some have even lost their
employment on the insistence of the Communist-dominated UE-FE.
All of these voluntary organizers would lose their employment in the
event of a closed-shop contract between International Harvester and
UE-FE.
    This threat to the security of workers trying to clean Communists
out of control of their union acts as a deterrent to other trade-unionists
who would like to take an active part in the tight against communism.
Organizers with families to support and financial obligations to ful-
fill cannot sacrifice their future without assistance in the fight.

    In addition to the fact that the organizers receive no assistance in
this fight, they also fail to receive the support of a majority of their
fellow workers who are anti-Communists. According to the com-
mittee's investigations, this latter category of workers fail to support
organization efforts by a union such as the          UAW
                                                     because they distrust
the UAW. This distrust results from the apparent failure of the
UAW to drive out the Communists in positions of leadership in cer-
tain of its   own   locals.
    Harvester workers         in the   Chicago area are well acquainted with the
affairs of local 453,    UAW, called        the Little Kremlin, an amalgamated
local in the vicinity of Cicero, 111. They recall that when local 453
decided to comply with the non-Communist affidavit provision of the
Taft-Hartley law the president and certain other officers resigned their
position because they were Communists. However, the Harvester
workers also know that this did not affect the leadership of local 453.
They know    that Hilliard Ellis and Sven Anderson had positions cre-
ated for which no non-Communist affidavit would have to be filed, had
themselves appointed to these positions, and, from these positions, con-
tinue to control the affairs of local 453. As can be readily seen, this ac-
tion circumvents the spirit of the law, and, as a matter of fact, this
should have been investigated by the NLRB for a determination as to
whether there existed a conspiracy to violate the non-Communist
affidavit provisions of the Taft-Hartley law. Irrespective of whether
there has been a violation of the law, the fact remains that no action
has been taken in this situation by the UAW. This, on top of the un-
healthy condition within local 600, UAW, Detroit, has lost for            UAW
much support.
  The Government     can render valuable assistance to Harvester and
all other workers represented by Communist-dominated unions and
can assist    UAW and other non-Communist internationals in cleaning
out their locals which are heavily infiltrated or controlled by members
of the Communist Party. The legislation which has been given much
consideration by your committee will also force Communists out of
positions of leadership in the union locals.
  It is the committee's recommendation that legislation be enacted
which will empower an agency of the Government to make investiga-
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN          ACTIVITIES     9

tions of labor organizations to determine whether any national, inter-
national, local, or other organic labor organization is controlled,
                                                                    or
dominated by, or has, as officers or leaders, members of the Communist
Party or other totalitarian organizations. An affirmative finding
should therewith deny to the labor organizations harboring such mem-
bers   all facilities   of the   NLRB.
  The committee                recommend that the NLRB be desig-
                         hesitates to
nated as the investigative agency referred to above for reasons which
seem to the committeeto be repeated failure on the part of the NLRB
to investigate the activities of existing Communist-dominated unions,
activities which apparently circumvent the intent of the Taft-Hartley
Act and place non-Communist unions and industry to the dis-
advantage of the Communist unions.
   It is further recommended that, with the enactment of this legisla-
tion, the non-Communist affidavit now required be eliminated.
                                                                     This
provision of law, after a start as intended by its authors, is now work-
ing to the benefit of members of the Communist Party engaged in the
field of labor.  Scores of union officials who have filed non-Communist
affidavits, and who have been witnesses before your committee
                                                                      and
Federal grand juries, have refused, on the grounds of possible self-
incrimination, to answer questions relative to their Communist affilia-
tion. Evidence before the committee conclusively shows that certain
of these union officials are still affiliated with the Communist Party,
though they have non-Communist affidavits on file. Many workers
cannot understand why these Communists have not been prosecuted
for filing fraudulent affidavits, but this failure to prosecute is under-
standable when we realize that an individual, in signing the non-
Communist affidavit, swears only that he is not a member of the Com-
munist Party on the day he affixes his signature. He can be, and in
most cases is, a member of the Communist Party on the day before
and the day after he signs the affidavit. In addition to enjoying the
facilities of the NLRB, the Communist union leaders, as a result of
their filing the non-Communist affidavit, have an argument to use
against those who claim that they are Communists or that their unions
are Communist-dominated. The Communist labor leader answers
that he has signed a non-Communist affidavit and that certainly he
would be prosecuted if he were a Communist. The average worker
does not consider the above technicality, and the Communists win an
argument and support. So that this support which the Communist
receives may be understood, it must not be forgotten that he is ren-
dering the services of a trade-unionist, which in most cases equal or
excel the services rendered by non-Communist union officials. This
excellent service rendered by the Communists can assist the Com-
munist Party in gaining control. It is continued until the Com-
munist Party has absolute control.

                                        Detroit
  The committee's hearings  in Detroit, Mich., in February and March
1952, climaxed a         7-month investigation
                                           in the State of Michigan.
The hearings constituted only a partial revelation of the Communist
activities uncovered during the investigation.    The elements of in-
filtration and control touched upon during the hearings were also
only partial.
  This can be better understood by the fact that during the investi-
gation the identity of over 600 individuals who were or are still
10   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

members of the Communist Party was       learned.  Yet, during the hear-
ings only about one-third of these were identified. Those identified
during the investigation included students and former students at
the major universities in Michigan. They included teachers through-
out the State, professional workers, and others from almost every
phase of life in Michigan. Also identified during the investigation
were the Communist clubs operated in most areas of Michigan, as
well as in industries in localities outside Detroit. Those individuals
and clubs identified, but not the subject of the hearings held, have
been under continuing investigation. However, the committee's
limited investigative staff makes it impossible to proceed as rapidly
as desired.
  During the hearings, the committee received detailed testimony
from many individuals at one time active in the Communist Party
of Michigan. Through these witnesses, we learned of the control ex-
ercised by the Communist Party over the great auto industry's unions
in the Detroit area.   We also learned how the Communists control
the activities of Communist-front organizations operated in the
State of Michigan. These organizations, such as the Michigan chap-
ters of the Civil Rights Congress, American Committee for Pro-
tection of Foreign Born, Committee for Peace, Labor Committee for
Peace, and the National Negro Labor Council, have played an im-
portant role in fostering the policies of the Communist Party in the
State of Michigan.
  Through the Civil Rights Congress, funds have been raised for the
defense of Communists tried or being tried for violating the provisions
of the Smith Act. Propaganda in support of Communists and advice
on the procedures Communists should follow if arrested, on trial, or
witnesses before congressional committees is given by the Civil Rights
Congress. During your committee's hearing in Detroit, William L.
Patterson, national executive secretary of the Civil Rights Congress
and a leading Communist functionary, was in Detroit conferring with
the Communists subpenaed and directing them in their conduct before
the committee.
  Through the American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born,
funds were raised to defend those Communists guilty of violating im-
migration laws. It provides legal services to Communists who need
them to defend themselves in proceedings instituted by the Immi-
gration and Naturalization Service. While no instances of the Ameri-
can Committee for Protection of Foreign Born defending non-Com-
munists came to the attention of the committee, it was established in
Detroit that this organization resorts to a form of blackmail against
those fighting the Communists. It accomplishes this by circulating
among the many foreign-born residing in Detroit circulars intimida-
ting all who can give testimony against the Communist Party and its
leaders.
  The Michigan Committee for Peace and the Labor Committee for
Peace are other Communist fronts operating in Michigan. The inves-
tigation and hearing established beyond doubt that they are dominated
and led by members of the Communist Party. These groups are more
vicious than all the others because they are playing on the nerves
of mothers and fathers of American youth stationed in America's
Armed Forces, especially those fighting in Korea. These organizations
                                                 —
have only one role, irrespective of their claims that of supporting
the Korean policy of the Soviet Union, Red China, and Communist
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES               11

Korea.   They have a direct connection with the Communists, as shown
by  the fact that, through these organizations, parents and relatives
are receiving word from those Americans being held captive by the
Communists. These organizations have drawn to them many honest
Americans who are unable to see through their propaganda, blinded
by the love they hold for one close to them lighting in Korea. Unless
these organizations are completely exposed, they will continue to draw
honest Americans into the web of communism.
   The National Negro Labor Council is a Communist-front organiza-
tion, designed to infiltrate communism into Negro life. By accusing
established labor organizations of overlooking the needs of the Ne-
groes, it hopes to capture more Negroes for communism.         It deals in
propaganda and deceit to put across its line. One illustration of this
can be seen from the following incident :
   William K. Hood telephoned the Ford Motor Co. and asked for an
appointment to discuss labor problems affecting Negroes. He sought
the appointment, as president of the National Negro Labor Council.
He was advised that the Ford Motor Co. refused to discuss any prob-
lems with the National Negro Labor Council. Hood then requested
the appointment as recording secretary of local 600,       UAW,     which
position he also held. After the interview, Hood, who was accom-
panied by Coleman Young, claimed that the National Negro Labor
Council had obtained certain benefits for the Negro worker. He ex-
plained these benefits as being in the main an agreement to hire Ne-
groes in the bomber plant which Ford was repairing. The Communist
National Negro Labor Council claimed that never before had Negroes
been hired in this building. This claim is false, as all Ford workers
know, but, in making the claim in the Communist Worker, they knew
that Negroes in other parts of the United States did not. The Com-
munists have thereby used the story to convince unsuspecting Negroes
that in the National Negro Labor Council they find their only friend.
   Local 600, UAW-CIO, is the largest labor local in the world. Its
gigantic size resembles an international union. It has a treasury in
excess of $300,000. Local 600 has always been the prime target of
the Communist Party. While the actual number of Communist Party
members is proportionately small, through their control of the left-
wing element within the Ford empire they have always elected a large
number of officers. In certain of the buildings, such as the foundry,
the Communists have always controlled the labor organization. This
control of units, such as the foundry, has given the Communists control
or near control of local 600's executive council and, through the coun-
cil, control of local 600. Most of local 600 s presidents have been non-
                                            ?




Communist and some even anti-Communist, but, as our hearings point-
ed out, the Communists are usually in control. Carl Stellato, president
of local 600 at the time of the committee's hearings was in such a posi-
tion.   It has been reported that he is using the Communists to combat
the attempt of the international president, Walter Reuther, to replace
him as president. He, Stellato believes that he can control the mem-
bers of the Communist Party. But the evidence shows the opposite to
be the fact. Irrespective of his purpose, the committee's investiga-
tion and hearings have established that he has surrounded himself with
individuals who were or are members of the Communist Party, all of
whom, regardless of their current membership status, are subservient
to the Communist Party.       His administrative assistant, Johnson, was
     H. Rept. 2510. 82-2   2
12     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

at one time an officer of the foundry unit of the Communist Party.
Many of the union's top advisers and union employees are also subser-
vient to the Communist Party. Ways must be found to remove the
Communists from their positions of control of this large local whose
members play such an important role in America's defense.
  The hearings show that great strides have been made in removing
them from the other auto locals. In congratulating the workers in
these locals for ridding themselves of Communist leadership, the com-
mittee wishes to point out that evidence uncovered during the investi-
gation discloses that Communists formerly employed in white-collar
positions are taking up trade work and, as unknowns in the com-
munity, are obtaining employment in the auto industry. Some of
these are already working within various locals.
  Testimony regarding various phases and aspects of Communist
Party activities in the Detroit area which was given to the committee
by Richard F. O'Hair, Walter Scott Dunn, Wayne Salisbury, Wil-
liam A. Record, Berenice ("Toby") Baldwin, Casimir Rataj, Elesio
"Lee" Romano, Shelton Tappes, Dave Averill, and Leon England was
of great assistance. Those persons who are interested in keeping our
labor unions and other groups free of the Communist ensnarement
which these witnesses clearly exposed should find their testimony most
enlightening.
  The following persons were identified as members of the                        Communist
Party during the course of the Detroit hearings                   :




                                                    Identified by
Acciacca, Archie                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Ford Motor Car Co.                            Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                Dave   Averill,   Mar.   12, 1952.
Adamski, Stanley                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Member, United Auto Workers, CIO
Adiken, G.                                      Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Ahrens, (Jeorge                                 Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Allan, Stephanie                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
(Mrs. William Allan)
  Wife of Daily Worker correspondent
Allan, William (Billy)                          Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Communist Party organizer, Daily              Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
    Worker representative                       Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
                                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
                                                Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
Allison,   Helen
(Mrs. Carl Winter). (See Helen Alli-
  son Winter.)
Alston, Chris                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Officer, East Side Council, Communist         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     Party; employee, Packard Motor
     Car Co.
Anderson, Gus                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.        25, 1952.
  Painter
Anderson, James                                 Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Local 600,   i   nited   Auto Workers, CIO    Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.   26, 1952.
Anderson, John                                  Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
 Trade-unionist,       Local    155,   United   Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
     Auto Workers, CIO
Anderson, Thomas                                Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Educational director, Branch 1, Sec.          Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
     5, Communist Party
Asslin, Midge (Mildred).                        Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary                   Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                           ACTIVITIES        13

                                                      Identified by
Bailey,   Gay                                     Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
Baker, Foss                                       Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Lansing, Mich.
Baltic, Nick                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Transferred to Pittsburgh, Pa., 1945
Banks, Rose                                       Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Barclay, Sidney                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
(Also known as Scotty)
  Employee, Hudson Motor Car Co.
Barnes, Oscar                                     Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.     26, 1952.
  Employee, Cadillac Motor Car Divi-
     sion of General Motors.
Baron, Donnie                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  United Auto Workers, CIO.
Beiswenger, Ann                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
(Mrs. Hugo Beiswenger)                            Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.   26, 1952.
     (Appeared Feb. 28, 1952; refused to          Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
       affirm or deny Communist Party             Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
       membership.)                               Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                  Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
Beiswenger, Hugo, Jr.                             Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  7485 Parkland, Detroit                          Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
     (Appeared Feb. 26, 1952 refused to
                                   ;              Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
      affirm or deny Communist Party
      membership.)
Beiswenger, Huso, Sr.                             Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Berenson, Izzy                                    Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.    25, 1952.
(Isadore)
                                                  Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.    26, 1952.
  Operator of newsstand,               Detroit;
    Daily Worker agent.
Bernstein, Joe                                    Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.    25, 1952.
  Financial Secretary, District 7, Com-           Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.    26, 1952.
    munist Party, Michigan.                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.    29, 1952.
    (Appeared Feb. 26, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Berry, Abner                                      Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Editor of Daily     Worker                      Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Bigford, Al                                       Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Bigford, Esther                                   Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27. 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Black, Mr.                                        Wayne B.   Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co.
Blossom, Ray                                      Wayne B.   Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
                                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Blyth, Larry                                      Wayne B.   Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Marine     City, Mich.
Boatin. Ann Vartainian                            Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
(Mrs. Paul Boatin)                                Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Local 600, United Auto Workers, CIO.
Boatin, Paul                                      Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.  26, 1952.
     (Appeared Mar.        11,   1952; refused    Wayne B.  Salisbury, Feb. 27, 19-")2.
       to affirm or deny           Communist      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
       Party membership.)                         Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                  Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
Bollin, Cliff                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Hudson Motor Car Co.
Bollin, Shirley                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
(Mrs. Cliff Bollin)
Borad, Murray                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.  29, 1952.
Bond, Jerry                                       Wayne B.  Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Boskey, Harry                                     Wayne B.  Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Employee, Dodge Division, Chrysler              Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     Corp.
14       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                      ACTIVITIES

                                                 Identified by
Boyd, Gerald Jerry )
                 (                           Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Officer, East Side Council, Communist      Wayne B.  Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
     Party; local 205, United Auto           Bereuiece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     Workers, CIO.
Brandt, Joe                                  Wayne B.   Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Flint, Mich.                               Bereuiece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     Moved to Cleveland, Ohio.
Brantley, Imogene
   (See Imogene Brantley Le'Garde.)
Braunlich, Art                               Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Out-State organizer,      Communist
     Party.
Bray,    Mary                                Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
                                             Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Brinich, Dorothy                             Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Member 12th Street Club of        Commu-
    nist Party.
Brook, Van                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Member, Chrysler Club of Commu-
    nist Party.
Brooks, Paul                                 Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Officer,   East Side Council, Communist    Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     Party.
Brown, Robert (Bob)                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Packard Motor Car Co.
Brown, Walter O.                             Elesio (Lee)      Romano, Mar.       11, 1952.
  Pressed Steel Branch, Ford Motor           Dave   Averill,   Mar.   12, 1952.
     Co.
Burt,    Herman                              Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Auto worker.
Campbell, Miss                               Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Speaker at 1945 State convention of
    Communist Party.
Campbell, Mr.                                Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Member, Ben Davis Club of the Com-
    munist Party.
Chait,   Max                                 Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Former employee      of   Ford Motor Co.   Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                             Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
Chamblis, Hilliard                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  United Auto Workers, CIO, member.
Chandler, William (Bill)                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  United Auto Workers, CIO, Local
     155,    member.
Cherveny, John                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, American Metal Products
    (Appeared Feb. 26, 1952 refused to
                                ;


      affirm or deny Communist Party
      membership.)
Christie,    Walter                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.       29, 1952.
  United Auto Workers, CIO, local 155,
     member.
Cinzori,     Mack                            Elesio (Lee)      Romano, Mar.       11, 1952.
  Die maker, Ford Motor Co., United
    Auto Workers, CIO
    (Appeared Mar. 11, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Clark, Elizabeth                             Richard   F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Employee Frigid      Food Corp.
Clark, Terry                                 Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.       25, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Cohen, Leonard                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Alleged to be reporter.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                        15

                                                               Identified ~by
Cole, Adeline                                              Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
      Young Communist League
                     J
                                          official.
Cones. Leola                                               Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson. Mich.
           '
Cones, Roy                                                 Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Connors, William                                           Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
Cook, Elinor Lafferty                                      Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
(Now Mrs. Elinor Maki)                                     Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
  Teacher       ;   Communist Party function-
       ary-
       (Appeared Feb.          27,   1952; refused
          to    affirm
                    deny  or            Communist
      Party membership.)
Cook, George                                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Literature    director, 14th  District.
       Transferred to New York.
Cook, Maurice                                              Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.    25, 1952.
  (Former husband of Elinor Lafferty Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.                            26, 1952.
    Cook)                            Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb.                           27, 1952.
  Officer Mid Town Club, Communist Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.                              29, 1952.
    Party.
Cook, Melva                                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  (Mrs. George Cook)
  Transferred to          New   York.
Cooper, J. Will                                            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.    25, 1952.
Coppock, Russell                                           Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Flint, Mich.
Cottrell,      Leo                                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Cummins, Bob (Robert)                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Former paint salesman, Montgomery
       Ward     Co.
  (Appeared Feb. 28. 1952; refused to
    affirm or deny Communist Party
    membership.)
Cunningham, Sis                                            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.     25, 1952.
(Mrs. Gordon Friesen)
(Mrs. Milton Freeman)
  Employee           district office,   Communist
     Party.
Daley, Bill                                                Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Dalton, Clem                                               Bereniece Baldwin, Fed. 29, 1952.
Daniels, Nick                                              Bereniece Baldwin, Fed. 29, 1952.
   Presently up for deportation.
Daniels, Mrs. Nick.  ( See Agnes Grigg. )

Davey, Fred                                                Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Grand Rapids, Mich.
Davis, Kurt                                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Dodge Division, Chrysler
    Corp.
Davis, Larry                                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  320 E. Milwaukee, Detroit, Mich.
Davis, Mrs. Mary.  (See Mary Page.)
Davis, Nelson                                              Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.    26, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co., vice presi-
       dent, local 600, United          Auto Work-
       ers,CIO.
       (Appeared Mar.          12, 1952;    refused        Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
         to     affirm    or
                       deny             Communist          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
         Party membership.)                                Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                           Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
Davis, Sally                                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Dodge Division, Chrysler
       Corp.

  1
      Mr. Salisbury testified that      It is his belief   that Leola and   Roy Cones had broken from
the   Communist Party.
16       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                       ACTIVITIES

                                                    Identified by
Dearnley, Eric                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Former     officer, Plymouth Local      51,
       United Auto Workers, CIO
De    Blois,   Don                              Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Briggs Mfg. Oo.
Delancey, Ann                         2
                                                Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.    25, 1952.
  Formerly resided at Priscilla Home.
Dennis,    Tommy                                Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Ypsilanti, Mich.
Dillard, Mr.                                    Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Member, Midtown Club of the Com-
       munist Party.
Dillard, Mrs.                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Member, Midtown Club of the Com-
    munist Party.
Dolman, Leslie (Pvt.)                           Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Dombrowski, Ruth                                Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
(Mrs. Tom Dombrowski.)
Dombrowski, Tom.      (Also known as            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
    Thomas X. Dombey.)                          Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
  Editor of Glos-Ludowy, Hamtramck.             Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
    (Appeared Apr. 29, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Dorosh, Walter                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co.                      Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
    (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952; refused            Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Drown, Vida (Nee, McDonnell).                   Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Duncan, Johnny                                  Elesio   (Lee)    Romano, Mar.    11, 1952.
  Local 600, United Auto Workers, CIO,
  Ford Motor Co. employee.
Edwards, Byron                                  Elesio (Lee)     Romano, Mar.   11, 1952.
  Local 600, United Auto Workers,               Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
  CIO, Ford Motor Co. employee.                 Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Edwards, Celia (Mrs. Byron Edwards.)            Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Clerk in Local 600, United Auto
    Workers, CIO.
    (Appeared Mar. 11, 1952; refused
    to affirm or deny Communist Party
    membership.)
Endicott, Paul                                  Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Employee, Dodge Division, Chrysler            Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
    Corp.
Fainaru, Harry                                  Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Editor of Foreign Language news-
    paper.
Falk, Sven                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Packard Motor Car Co.               Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Ferris, Alice                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Operated Communist Book Store.
Field,Fred                                      Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Fireman, Hy                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Auto worker.
Fische, Fred                                    Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Chevrolet Motors            Div.,
    General Motors Corp.
Ford, James                                     Wayne    B. Salisbury. Feb. 27, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Foreman, Carneller                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.               25, 1952.
  Officer, East Side Council, Commu- Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.               29, 1952.
       nist Party.

  8   Records of the committee show correct Dame of place as Priscilla Inn, 2619 Cass Ave.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                               ACTIVITIES       17

                                                            Identified by
 Forsythe, Emmett                                       Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
   Editor, Michigan Worker.                             Dave         Mar. 12, 1952.
                                                               Averill,
 Franklin, Harold                                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
   Employee, Ford Motor Co., foundry,
     River Rouse Plant United Auto;


     Workers, CIO, vice pres. and re-
     cording secretary.
     (Appeared Apr. 29, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
          Party membership. )
 Franklin, Mrs. Harold
    (See Mary Mclntyre.)
 Frazier, Jim                                           Wayne     B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
      Charlotte, Mich.
 Freeman, Milton                         Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
    Formerly employed by Detroit Times.
 Furay, Mrs. Mort (Corinne Foray)        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
 Gale, Willie                            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
 Gallo, John                             Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
   District' committeeman;    employee, Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
      Ford Motor Co., Dearborn plant.   Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
      (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952; refused Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
        to affirm or deny Communist
        Party membership.)
Ganley, Ann (Mrs. Nat Ganley)           Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
Ganley, Nat                             Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
   Business agent, Local 155, United Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
     Auto Workers, CIO.                 Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Gannett, Betty                          Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
   Communist Party functionary.         Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
Garrett, Dewey                          Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
   Machine tool operator.
Gates, Henderson                        Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
Gebelle, Fred                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
   Employee, Plymouth Motor Corp.
Gebert, Boleslaw                        Casimir Rataj, Mar. 10, 1952.
Gladstone, Marvin                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Washtenaw County.
         Edna (Mrs. Harry
Glassgold,                                    Glass-   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.     25, 1952.
    gold)
  Former employee, Ford Motor Co.
    and former    member, Theatre
    Guild, New York City.
Glassgold, Harry                  Richard                         F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Artist organizational section, branch
           ;


    1, section 5, Communist Party.
Glenn, William                                         Wayne     B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Grand Rapids, Mich.
  (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952             ;   refused to
    affirm    deny Communist Party
                   or
    membership. )
Gonzales, Jesus (Jessie)                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  New Haven, Mich.
Goodman, Calvin
  18C64 Forrest Avenue, Detroit, Mich.,                Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.    25, 1952.
    Employee, Ford Motor Car Co.
Goodman. Flo (Mrs. Calvin Goodman)                     Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
Gordon,    Hy                                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Gore, Jack                                             Wayne     B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Employee, Dodge Division, Chrysler Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.                       29, 1952.
    Corp.  former student at Ann
               ;


    Arbor.
Gottlieb                                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.     29, 1952.
  Member, Group         1,   auto miscellaneous
    section of the      Communist Party.
18        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                             Identified by
Green, Pressley                                          Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Ford Motor Co. local               600,       United
    Auto Workers, CIO.
Greenberg, Ike                                           Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Grigg, Agnes (Mrs. Nick Daniels)                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Grossman, Fay Gingold (Mrs. Saul                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     Grossman)
  Secretary, district           7,           Communist
    Party of Michigan.
Grossman, Saul                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
   (Appeared Apr. 29, 1952; refused to
     affirm or deny Communist Party
     membership.)
Gustafson, John                                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Plymouth Motor Corp.
Haskell, Raphael (Ray)                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Former employee, Dial Machine Co.
   (Appeared Feb. 26, 1952 refused to;


     affirm or deny Communist Party
     membership.)
Haskell,   Zina Brandi     (Mrs.  Ray                    Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Haskell)
Hell,   John                                             Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Henley, Paul                                             Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Steward, local 3, United Auto Work-                    Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
      ers, CIO, Dodge Division, Chrys-                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
      ler Corp.
    (Appeared Feb. 27, 1952 refused to   ;

          affirm ordeny Communist Party
          membership.)
Higdon, Hoke                                             Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Muskegon, Mich.
Hommer,         Phil                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Local         205,   United   Auto          Workers,
     CIO employee, Allen
            ;                    Industries Co.
Hood, William R.                          Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  At one time, recording secretary, local Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
       600, United Auto   Workers, CIO;
       employee, Ford Motor Co.
     (Appeared  Feb. 28, 1952 refused to ;


       affirm or deny Communist Party
       membership.)
Hrabar, Mike                              Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Local 600, United Auto Workers, CIO     Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
                                                     ;

     employee, Ford Motor Co.             Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
Hudson, Roy                               Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Iglesias, Frank                           Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Member A. F. of L. Painters' Union.
Ireland. Betty (Mrs. Max Ireland)                        Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Stenographer.                                          Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.   26, 1952.
Ireland,    Max                                          Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Employee, Cadillac Motor Car Divi-
    sion, General Motors Corp.
Issacs,   John                                           Richard  F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
                                                         Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Jackson, James (Dr. James E. Jackson)                    Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
                                                         Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
Jacobowitz, Jake                                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Auto worker.
Jansen, Henry (also         known    as "Swede"          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
    Jansen        )

  Chairman, Timken Club of the Com-
    munist Party.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                ACTIVITIES       19

                                                          Identified by
Jelley,      Tom                                      Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co. officer,        ;


       United Auto Workers, CIO.
     (Appeared Mar. 11, 1952 refused   ;


       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Johnson, Mrs. Hattie                                  Richard F. O'Hair, Feb   25, 1952.
Johnson, Jean                                         Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.  25, 1952.
Jones, Dick                                           Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Jones, Fred                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Jones, J. B.
                s
                                                      Dave   Averill,   Mar.   12, 1952.
  Local       600,    United    Auto   Workers,
       CIO.
Jones,    James                                       •Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
  Local 600,          United    Auto   Workers,
    CIO.
Jurist, Gus                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Juris, Mrs.         Gus                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Kasper, Pete                                          Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Local 600,          United    Auto   Workers,
    CIO.
Keller,      James                                    Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.  25, 1952.
  Believed to        now   reside in Chicago.         Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27. 1952.
Kelly,    Ann                                         Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Paid Communist Party functionary.                   Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
Kelly,Laura                                           Wavne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Kennedy, Casper                                       Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Flint, Mich.
Kennedy, Royce                                        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Electrical appliances business.
Kidwell,      Omar                                    Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Kitto, Russell                                        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Cadillac Motor Car Divi-
    sion, General Motors Corp.
Kniep, Florence                                       Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Traverse City, Mich.
Kocel, Alice (Mrs. Ben Kocel)                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Kocel,    Ben                                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Newspaper,           Glos    Ludowy,         Ham-
    tramck.
Kowal, Pete                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Krawford, Leroy                                       Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co.                            Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                      Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
Kristalsky, George                                    Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Hamtramck, Mich.                                    Casimir Rataj, Mar. 10, 1952.
Kudlik, Jeannie                                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Lancey, Andy                                          Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
Lauderdale, Leonard                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Lawson, John                                          Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Employee, tool and die unit, Dear-
     born plant, Ford Motor Co.
Lee, Ginny                                            Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Lee, Katie                                            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.       25, 1952.
  Paid Communist Party functionary.
Le Garde, Imogene Williams Brantley                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Local 205, United Auto Workers, CIO ;
    employee, Allen Industries Co.
Lieberman, Robert                                     Dave   Averill,   Mar.   12, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Lifsee, Bill                                          Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.         25, 1952.

  *
      Dave   Averill testified that it is his belief that J. B. Jones    had broken with the Com-
munist Party.
20        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                ACTIVITIES

                                                           Identified by
Lindouf, Charles                                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Plymouth Motor Corp.
Little,   John                                         Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Local 600, United Auto Workers, CIO.                 Dave         Mar. 12, 1952.
                                                              Averill,
Llewelyn, Percy                                        Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Vice president, Ford Local 600, United
    Auto Workers, CIO.
Lock,-Edgar (Ed)                        Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co. chairman, Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
                                     ;


       plastics unit, local 600, United Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
      Auto Workers, CIO.                Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
     (Appeared Mar. 11, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Lymber, John                                           Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.     1952.
                                                                                      25,
Lynch, Katherine                                       Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.     1952.
                                                                                      25,
  Former employee, Free Press.                         Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.     1952.
                                                                                      26,
                                                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.     1952.
                                                                                      29,
McAllister, Mr.                                        Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
McAllister, Verna                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
   Sent by the party to California
McGee, Dewey                                           Dave   Averill,   Mar.   12, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co.
McDonnell, Faye                                        Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
(Mrs. Floyd McDonnell)
  Jackson, Mich.
McDonnell, Floyd                                       Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
McGhee, Sam                                            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.        25, 1952.
  Resided on St. Antoine            St.,    Detroit,
    Mich.
Mcintosh. Matilda                                      Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
(Mrs. Ronald Mcintosh)
  Jackson, Mich.
Mcintosh, Ronald                                       Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Mclntyre, Mary                                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
(Mrs. Harold Franklin)
  Ann Arbor, Mich.
McKie, William (Bill)                                  Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
   Trustee, Ford local 600, United Auto                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     Workers, CIO.                                     Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                       Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
McMahon, Richard                                       Casimir Rataj, Mar. 10, 1952.
  Business Agent,         Wayne      Co.,
McPhaul, Arthur                        Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co., officer In Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
      local 600, United Auto Workers, Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
       CIO.                                            Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
     (Appeared Feb.          27,   1952; refused       Elesio (Lee)      Romano, Mar.       11, 1952.
          to   affirm   or
                        deny         Communist Dave                  Mar. 12, 1952.
                                                              Averill,
          Party membership. )                          Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
Ma ben                                                 Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
  Barber.
Maise, Felix                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Packard Motor Car Co.
Maki, Elinor
  (Mrs. William).   (See Elinor Laf-
     fery Cook.)
Maniken,«Roy                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee. Hudson Motor Car Co.
Maraniss,      Elliot   (Ace)                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
   Employee, Detroit Times.
     (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                    ACTIVITIES         21

                                                          Identified by
Maraniss, Mary Morrison.                (See   Mary
    Morrison.)
Mardiros, Ruben                                       Elesio (Lee)    Romano, Mar.       11, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor           Co., local 600,
          UAW-CIO.
     (Appeared Mar.           12, 1952;   refused
          to   affirmdenyor         Communist
       Party membership.)
Marksian, L.                                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Martin, Frank                                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Masee, Dr. J.                                         Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Resided on Hastings St., Detroit,
    Mich.
Mason, Hodges                                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Bohn Aluminum and Brass
    Corp.
Mates, Dave                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  UE         understood to have been
          (local),
    chairman of Indiana Communist
    Party.
Mates, Lydia                                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  (Mrs. Dave Mates)
    Understood          to have been cochair-
          raan   of      Indiana Communist
          Party.
Maxwell, Matilda                                      Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.        25, 1952.
  (Mrs. Jesse Parrish).
Miller,    Dave                                       Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.        25, 1952.
  Employee, Cadillac Motor Car Divi-
      sion of General Motors Corp.
    (Appeared Feb. 26, 1952 refused to
                                    ;

      affirm or deny Communist Party
      membership.)
Miller, Felix                                         Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
                                                      Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
Mitchell, Mabel                                       Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
Mogill, Billie                                        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  (Mrs. George Mogill.)
Mogill, George                                        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Monicelovich, A.                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Moore, Dave                                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co.                            Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
    (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Morgan, Charles E. (Also known as                     Elesio (Lee)        Romano, Mar.   11, 1952.
    ••Peoples.")
  Employee, Ford Motor Co.; United
    Auto Workers, CIO, local 600.
Morrison, Mary                                        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  (Mrs. Eliot Maraniss.)
Moskalik, Simon                                       Dave     Averill,   Mar.   12, 1952.
  Employee, Pressed Steel branch, Ford
    Motor Co.
Narancich, Roy                                        Elesio    (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co., council                   Dave     Averill,   Mar.   12, 1952.
       member, local 600, United Auto
      Workers, CIO.
    (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Nerich                                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Member, Heywood No. 2 Branch of
    the Communist Party.
Newman,        Willie                                 Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.         25, 1952.
  Resided on E. Warren.
22      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                               ACTIVITIES

                                                            Identified by
Newsorne, George                                        Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.    25, 1952.
[Note: In the original release of this
  report an individual named Frank
  Novak was named as having, been
  identified by testimony of               Wayne   B.
  Salisbury.        Mr.    Novak has denied
  membership in          the Communist Party,
  and in view of the vagueness of the
  testimony relating to him, his              name
  isbeing deleted.]
Nowak, John                                             Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Member, local 155, UAW-CIO
Nowak, Stanley                                          Casimir Rataj, Mar.   10, 1952.
  Formerly State Senator, Hamtramck.
       (Appeared Mar.          10,   1952; refused
          to        deny Communist
                affirm    or
      Party membership.)
Orsage, Leo T.                                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Ford Motor Co.                                        Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
                                                        Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
Obriot, Tersil T.                                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Member, Ford           local 600,   United Auto       Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
         Workers, CIO.                                  Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
       (Appeared Mar.          12,   1952; refused
          to        deny Communist
                affirm    or
      Party membership.)
Page, Mary (now Mrs. Mary Davis)                        Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
    also known as Mary Reed Page                    ;
                                                        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
    Mary Reed; former wife of Fred                      Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
    Page)
  Secretary, Ford local 600, United
    Auto Workers, CIO.
Palmer, Opal                                            Elesio (Lee)   Romano, Mar.   11, 1952.
  Stock clerk, local 600, UAW-CIO.
Palmquist, Carl                                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.    29, 1952.
  Educational    director,   Fourteenth
    Congressional Club of the Commu-
      nist Party.
Palmquist, Helen                                        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
(Mrs. Carl Palmquist)
Palmquist, Jack (son of Carl Palm-                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
       quist)
  Former student, Michigan State Uni-
       versity.
Parrish, Mrs. Jesse.           (See Matilda Max-
  well.   )

Parrish, Jesse                                          Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.  25, 1952.
  Official,Midtown Club, Communist                      Wayne   B. Salisbury. Feb. 27, 1952.
    Party resided E. Palmer St.
                :



Patrick, Marion Elder                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Officer,      Fred Douglas Club, Commu-
     nist Party.
Pearlstein, Mildred                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary (party
     name: Mildred Pierce).
    (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952 refused to ;


       affirm or deny Communist Party
       membership. )
Perry, Louis                                            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Resided on Brush St.
Piazza, Verne (La Verne)
  Dentist                                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Pierce, Mildred.           (See Mildred Perl-
  stein.)
Pietrowski, Eddie                                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Auto worker.
Pietrowski, Sally                                       Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
(Mrs. Eddie Pietrowski)
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                              23

                                                     Identified bii
Pitcher,    Eva                                  Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Saginaw, Mich.
Ploetchl,    Leo                                 Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Pollock. Mildred                                 Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Formerly in local 155, United Auto
    Workers, CIO transferred out of
                    ;


    Michigan.
Poison, Bridget                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Head    of Young Communist            League
    office of Detroit.
Poison, Ruth                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee. Bonn Aluminum and Brass
     Corp. local 20S, United Auto Work-
             :



     ers, CIO.
Pompquist, Jack Jr.                              Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Chrysler Corp.
Popescu                                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  National group, Communist Party.
Potter, Tim.   (See Timothy Shay.)
Price, Frances                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Civil Rights Congress, Detroit.
Purdy, Robert                                    Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Auto worker, Dodge Division, Chrys-
    ler Corp.
Raskin, Jack                                     Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Civil Rights Congress, Detroit.                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Raymond, Phil                                    Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Pingree St., Detroit, Mich.                    Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Redstone, Reva                                   Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
  Office worker.                                 Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
Reed, Bob                                        Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Circulation manager, Michigan Her-             Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
    ald,    Muskegon.
Reed, Mary (also known as Mary Reed
  Page Mary Reed Page Davis former
        ;                           ;


  wife of Fred Page; now Mrs. Davis).
  (See Mary Page.)
Revis, Otis                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Former employee, Briggs Mfg.           Co.
Rice, Pat                                        Elesio (Lee)   Romano, Mar.   11, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co. vice presi-
                                ;


       dent, local 600, United Auto
       Workers, CIO.
     (Appeared Feb. 28, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Rhodes, Oscar                                    Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Briggs Mfg. Co.
Ripken,     Hank                                 Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Auto worker, Heywood Communist
    Party Club.
Ripken, Katherine                                Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
Riskin, Irving                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Business Agent, UOPWA, Detroit.                Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
Riskin, "Skippy"                                 Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
(Mrs. Irving Riskin)
Rizzo, Sam                                       Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor    Co.
Roach, Kenneth                                   Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor    Co.                    Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
Robertson, Harold                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor    Co.
Rodgers, William A.                              Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Resided on Brush St.,   Detroit, Mich.
24       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                        Identified by
Rogers, Carl                                        Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.     26, 1952.
  Employee, Cadillac Motor Car Divi-
    sion of General Motors Corp.
Ross, Norman                                        Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Ross, Shirley                                       Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Saari, John (Whitey)                                Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Employee, Ford Motor Co. local 600,    ;          Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
      United Auto Workers, CIO.
    (Appeared Mar. 12, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Sampy, Mills                          Richard F. OHair, Feb.                   25, 1952.
  Midtown Club, Communist Party.
Sanberg, Helen                                      Richard F. OHair, Feb.     25, 1952.
(Mrs. Jack Sanberg)
  Midtown Club, Communist Party.
Sanberg, Jack                                       Richard F. OHair, Feb.     25, 1952.
  Midtown         Club,   Communist Party.
Sanders, Clarence                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Chrysler Corp.
Sandretto, Aldo                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  First Congressional Group, Commu-
     nist Party.
Savola, Matt                          Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Member, Mine, Mill and Smelter Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
     Workers Union, Iron Wood, Mich. Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Schatz, Phil                          Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 28, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
                                      Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
Schkurman, Martha                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Officer,   Fourteenth Congressional
     Club, Communist Party.
Schleicher, Milton                    Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Michigan Herald.
Schlicht, Joseph                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Concrete business.
Sciverras, Louis                      Richard F. OHair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Midtown Club, Communist Party.
Searles, Pfc.                                       Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
Shapiro                                             Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Southfield Club,         Communist Party.
Shapiro, Esther                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
(Mrs. Harold Shapiro)
Shapiro, Harold                                     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Fur and Leather Workers.
Shay, Timothy (Tim) (also known as Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
    Tim Potter)                      Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
  Formerly resided on Cass Ave., De-
     troit,   Mich.
Showerman, Glen                                     Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Quiney Street, Detroit, Mich.
Showerman, Sue                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Officer,auto group, Communist Party.
Siegel, Esther                                      Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Officer,        Midtown        Club,   Communist Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.      29, 1952.
     Party    ;    resided on Elmhurst Street
Silverberg,       Dave                              Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Midtown Club, Communist Party.
Simmons, James M.                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Officer,        local   600,    UAW-CIO; em-      Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
      ployee, Ford Motor Co.                        Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
    (Appeared Mar. 11, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Simmons, Steve                                      Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Smith, Harold                                       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Fourteenth Congressional District,
     Communist Party.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                     ACTIVITIES          25

                                                   Identified by
Smith. Hope (Mrs. Harold Smith)                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Fourteenth Congressional District,
    Communist Party.
Sobczak, John                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Steward. Fred Douglas Club.
Sorbonya, Julius (also spelled Sobonya)        Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.    29, 1952.
  Auto miscellaneous group of Com-
    munist Party.
Sorenson, Ernie                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Hudson Motor Car Co.
Springer    (husband   of   Barbara            Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
    Springer)
  Formerly employed    in post office,   De-
    troit.
Springer. Barbara                              Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Midtown Club, Communist Party.
Stepanchenko, Frank                            Elesio (Lee)  Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
  Local 600, UAW-CIO.                          Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
Stern, Arthur (also known as Yeager)           Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Midtown Club, Communist Party.
Stern. Barbara (Mrs. Arthur Stern)             Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Midtown Club, Communist Party.
Swetniek Nick                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Sykes,Frank                                    Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Lower Eastside, Communist Party.             Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Toohey, Pat                                    Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. J.".. 1952.
  Organizer,   Communist Party,     Detroit.   Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
                                               Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
                                               Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
Trees. Daniel                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, furniture store.
Turner, Carl                                   Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
  Employee, Spring and Upset Unit,             Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
       Ford Motor Co. officer, United
                        ;


      Auto Workers, CIO.
     (Appeared March 11, 1952 refused
                                ;


       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Turner. Edward (not identical with             Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Edward N. Turner who appeared be-
  fore committee).
Van Horn. Edith                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Dodge Division, Chrysler
    Corp.
Vartainian. Bacrad                             Elesio (Lee)   Romano, Mar.   11, 1952.
  Local 600, UAW, CIO employee, Ford
                        ;


    Motor Co.
Walker. Gurley (Mrs. James Walker)             Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Local 205, United Auto Workers, CIO ;
    employee, Allen Industries, Inc.
Walker, James                                  Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Local 205, United Auto Workers, CIO;
    employee, Allen Industries, Inc.
Walters, Charles                               Bereniece Baldwin, Feb.    29, 1952.
  Local 155, UAW, CIO
Washington, Bob                                Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  First Congressional District, Commu-
    nist Party.
Watts. James                                   Elesio (Lee)   Romano, Mar.   11, 1952.
  Employee, Packard Motor Car Co.          ;


    formerly at Flint. Mich.
     (Appeared March 11, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
26      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                  Identified by
Webb, Ruth                                                   Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.       25, 1952.
  Midtowu Club, Communist Party.
Weinstone                                                    Casimir Rataj, Mar. 10, 1952.
Wellman, Peggy (Mrs. Saul Wellman)                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952
Wellman, Saul                                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Employee, Briggs Mfg. Co.
Wells, Harold                                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Chrysler Club, Communist Party.
Whipple, Ida (Mrs. Jess Whipple)                             Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
Whipple, Jess                                                Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Jackson, Mich.
White, Jack                                                  Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.  25, 1952.
  Oi'ganizer, Communist Party    Em-             ;
                                                             Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
       ployee, Packard Motor             Car   Co., for-     Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
       merly at Flint, Mich.
Widmark, James                                               Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Flint, Mich.
Williams, Emma (Mrs. Fred Williams)                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Williams, Fred                                               Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Employee, Bohn Aluminum and Brass                          Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
       Corp.,     member,     local      208,    UAW,
       CIO
       (Appeared February
                        27, 1952; re-
      fused to affirm or deny Com-
      munist Party membership.)
Williamson, John                                             Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  National Committee, Communist Po-                          Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
       litical    Association.
Wilson, Barbara                                              Walter Scott Dunn, Feb.          26, 1952.
  Member, Communist                 Political Asso-
       ciation.
Wilson, Jack (alias for Fred Williams)                  .

            4
Wilson, Roy                                                  Shelton Tappes, Mar. 12, 1952.
  Employee, Department of Public Wel-                        Elesio (Lee) Romana, March. 11, 1952.
    fare, Detroit    Young Communist
                         ;
                                                             Dave   Averill,    Mar.   12, 1952.
    League member.
Winston, Henry                                               Wayne    B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary,                       New
    York.
Winter, Carl                                                 Richard F. O'Hair, Feb.  25, 1952.
  Official       of   District      7,   Communist           Wayne   B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
       Party.                                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
                                                             Elesio (Lee) Romano, Mar. 11, 1952.
Winter, Helen            Allison         (Mrs.       Carl    Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Winter)                                                    Walter Scott Dunn, Feb. 26, 1952.
       Official    of District      7,   Communist           Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
         Party.                                              Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Woodson, Mattie Lee                                          Richard F. O'Hair, Feb. 25, 1952.
  Employee, District 7              office,    Commu-        Wayne B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
       nist Party, Detroit.
Work, Merle                                                  Wayne  B. Salisbury, Feb. 27, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary                                Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Wright, Malcolm                                              Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Auto Miscellaneous Group, Commu-
    nist Party
Yanover, Jules                                               Richard O'Hair, Feb.        25, 1952.
  Musician
       (Appeared Mar.         12,   1952; refused
         to     affirm deny Communist
                         or
         Party membership.)

  4
      Dave    Averill testified that     Roy Wilson,        to his knowledge,   had broken with the Com-
munist Party.
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                        27

                                             Identified by
Yanover, Ruth (Mrs. Jules Yanover)       Richard F. CTHair, Feb.   25, 1952.
  Originally from Milwaukee, Wis.
Yeager, Arthur.    (See Arthur Stern.)
Young. Coleman                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  National executive secretary. Na-
       tional Negro Labor Council
     (Appeared Feb. 28, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Young, Marion (Mrs. Coleman Young)       Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
Zahari, Daniel                           Dave Averill, Mar. 12, 1952.
  Employee, Pressed Steel Branch,
    Ford Motor Co.
Zarichney. .lack                         Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Lansing, Mich.
Zenchuck, Olga                           Bereniece Baldwin, Feb. 29, 1952.
  Packinghouse Local                     Elesio (Lee)   Romano, Mar.   11, 1952.


                                  Chicago

   The hearings held in Chicago, 111., in September 1952 were only a
partial exposure of evidence of Communist activities uncovered dur-
ing the investigations. As a matter of fact, only the Communist activ-
ities within local 347, United Packinghouse Workers of America

 (CIO), and certain locals of the United Electrical, Radio, and Ma-
chine Workers of America (independent) were exposed. However, in
the latter category only several of the top union officials were sub-
penaed. While the committee considered the hearing only a partial
exposure, it was given top priority for attack by the Communist Party.
   This attack by the Communist Party should be reviewed closely by
the Congress for it came closer to mob violence and a forceful attack
upon the legislative function of the Congress than any incident in its
history. It started with several hundred Communists and their fol-
lowers forming a picket line in front of the main entrance of the
Federal Building, in which the hearings were held. These pickets,
pursuant to a plan publicly announced by the Communist Party,
carried signs designed to intimidate members of the committee and
witnesses, and stormed the Federal Building itself.      Brushing aside
uniformed Federal Building guards, the group made its way to the
second floor where the committee's hearings were in progress. De-
manding admittance to a then already overcrowded courtroom, they
pounded upon the doors, and threatened physical harm to the witness
then testifying. Calling one witness a stool pigeon and shouting state-
ments against the chairman and members of the committee, the demon-
stration continued unhampered for over an hour.       These pickets were
led by Dick Criley, who has been identified as leader of the Com-
munist Party's Youth Commission, and Sidney Ordower, a leader of
the Progressive Party.
   The hearings forcefully disclosed how the affairs of local 347,
UPWA,      have been directed by leaders, who, one after another, are,
or have been, members of the Communist Party. This Communist
leadership, confined mainly to one packing-house local in the Chicago
area, has never been disciplined by the international leadership, and,
as a matter of fact, there are instances where the international, an
affiliate of the CIO, has supported the Communists in control of
local 347.
     H. Rept. 2516, 82-2   3
28    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Local 347 has brought pressure upon the Department of State in an
effort to force the  Department to issue passports to Communists.
This pressure has been in the form of paid advertisements and personal
contacts with individuals occupying positions important enough to
influence State Department decisions. One of the Communists who
was denied a United States passport is a member of local 347. In
order to proceed behind the iron curtain, this individual filed a fraud-
ulent passport application.
   In subpenaing the leaders of the United Electrical, Radio, and
Machine Workers of America in Chicago, the committee again came
face to face with witnesses refusing to answer questions relating to
their Communist affiliations, on the ground of possible self-incrimina-
tion, while these same witnesses have on file non-Communist affidavits
with the National Labor Relations Board.
   With respect to the International Harvester Council of the United
Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America, we found local
unions signing up their entire membership as subscribers to Communist
publications, and paying the entire cost of the subscriptions from the
local's treasury. Instances where the locals also paid the salaries of its
members while they attended a Communist school were outlined before
the committee. The investigation conclusively showed a working
arrangement among all the Communist-dominated locals in the
Chicago area to take care of members of the Communist Party.
  A Communist fired from one position is immediately hired by one
of the Communist locals, or is placed on the international payroll, or
else he obtains employment in a plant and is almost immediately
elected to an important position.
   During the investigation, evidence was obtained of the existence
on the campuses of the University of Chicago and Roosevelt College
of Communist clubs among students, as well as faculty personnel.
Evidence was also obtained with respect to the Communist club of
the University of Chicago and its relationship to the Communist Party.
  Other evidence was uncovered during the investigation and wit-
nesses were subpenaed. However, due to the lateness of the congres-
sional year, the subpenas have been canceled and these matters will be
the subject of our continuing investigation. In the meantime, all in-
formation of Communist activities in the Chicago area, as well as in
other industrial areas, should be brought to the committee's attention.
  The committee was assisted in the Chicago hearing through the
testimony given by Irving Krane, Lee Lundgren, Roy Thompson,
Alcide T. Kratz, John Edward Cooke, and Donald O. Spencer.
  The individuals identified during the hearings in Chicago, 111., as
present or past members of the Communist Party in the Chicago area
are listed below     :



                                            Identified as   Communist by      —
Alexander, Mrs. Annie                   Roy Thompson,   Sept. 4, 1952.
  Member, local 347,      UPWA.
Allen, Frank                            Lee Lundgren, Sept.     2,    1952.
  International organizer,        UE.   Roy Thompson,   Sept.   4,    1952.
Amato, Pat                              Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  President,   UE   local 1150.         Irving Krane, Sept 2, 1952.
Atkinson,   Flo   (Florence Atkinson
    Criley, Mrs. Richard Criley; see
    Florence Criley)
Avery, James                            Roy Thompson,   Sept.    4,   1952.
  Official, local 347,   UPWA.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                               ACTIVITIES                    29

                                                               Identified as        Communist                      btj
                                                                                                                         —
Balsis, Joe                                            Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.           1952.       3,
Bartnick, Bruno (or Bartnik)                           John Edward          Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Farm equipment worker, official,             FEU
    local 108.
Batterson,Warren                                       Donald        O.   Spencer, Sept.                      3,    1952.
  Communist Party functionary, Iowa.
Bentzenhoffer, Joe.          (See Joseph Bezen-
  hoff er. )
Bernard, John T.                                       Lee Lundgren, Sept.                 2,          1952.
  Official,    UE    District 11.
        (Appeared before Committee Sept.
          3, 1952, refused to affirm or deny
          party membership.)
Beverly, Leon                                          R°y Thompson,                Sept.          4,    1952.
  Official, local 347,       UPWA.
     (Appeared Sept. 4-5, 1952, refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
          ship.)
Bezenhoffer, Joseph (also         known   as Joe       Roy Thompson,                Sept. 4, 1952.
    Marlovits)
  Official, local 347,       UPWA.
Bindman, Aaron                                         Lee Lundgren, Sept.                     2,       1952.
  Official, Longshoremen's Union.
Birch, Jack                                            Lee Lundgren, Sept.                     2,       1952.
  Official.    UElocal 1119.                                   -
                                                                                         --„.  .




Brown.      Edward (also known            as    Ed Lee Lundgren,                Sept. 2, 19o2.
    Star)
                                                       John Edward Cooke,              Sept. 3, 1952.
  Secretary,        Communist Party       of   Illi-


Brown^Thomas,          Jr.                             Lee Lundgren, Sept.                     2,       1952.
  Member, UE.
                                                       L,ee    Lundgren, Sept.                 2,       1952.
Burns, Milton
  International representative, UE.
Carle, Tillie (Mrs. Frank Rogers)
                                                       ^
                                                       T
                                                               Lundgren, Sept.
                                                                                „
                                                                                               2,
                                                                                                        „-_„
                                                                                                        1952.

  Officer, Civil Rights Congress, Chi-
    cago
Carter, Rachael
                                                                   Edward Cooke Sept                           3 1952.
                                                       -John
                                                       Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.                            1952.
                                                                                                   3,
Casaro,     Mary
  Second vice president, local 107, FEU.                                                            in __
                                                       Donald O. Spencer,                  Sept. 3, 1952.
Childs, Morris
  Organizing    director,    Communist
     Party, Illinois.                                  .. .,  _ „       „   . _ 1f._       .


                                                       Alcide T. Kratz, Sept. 3, 1952.
Clemmons
  Executive board, local 107, FEU.                     n       _,                                        .,„_„
                                                       R °y                                        .
                                                                                       .



                                                                   Thompson, Sept.                 4,    1952.
Cole,Dorothy
  Candidate for Congress, Ninth Con-
    gressional District, Illinois, Pro-
    gressive Party.
Cornelius, Eugene                                      R(, y   Thompson,            Sept. 4, 19o2.
  Chief steward. Cold Pork Division,
     local 347, UPWA.                                                           n
Criley, Florence (Mrs.          Richard Criley, Lee Lundgren, Sept.                        2,          1952.
     nee Flo Atkinson)                          Ir ving Krane, Sept.                       2,          19o2.
  Official   UE, local 1150.                                                                           1Q __
Criley.    Richard                                     Lee Lundgren,
                                                               ,
                                                                     Sept.                 2,          1952.
  Official,    Communist Party, State            of
  Illinois.                                                                                               _    „
Curry, Samuel                                          Rov Thompson,                Sept. 4, 19o2.
  Representative of          UPWA.
        (Appeared Sept. 4, 1952, refused
          to affirm or deny party member-
          ship. )
Cutno, James                                           Roy Thompson,                Sept. 4, 1952.
  Chief steward. Hot Pork Division,             lo-
     cal 347,       UPWA.
30      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                      Identified as    Communist by-
Davenport, Sidney                                               Roy Thompson,         Sept. 4, 1952.
  Inside guard, local 347,            UPWA.
Davis Pete                                                      Roy Thompson,         Sept. 4, 1952.
  Member, local 347, UPWA.
Dawkins, James (Jim)                                            Lee Lundgren,  Sept. 2, 1952.
  Official,       UE   local 1150.                              Irving Krane, Sept.  2, 1952.
Dennis, Joe                                                     Roy   Thompson, Sept. 4, 1952.
  Member,          local 347,    UPWA.
Dunson, Perry                                                   Roy Thompson,         Sept. 4, 1952.
  Chief steward, Wool Division, local
     347,   UPWA.
Dutner, Fred                                                    Lee Lundgren, Sept.      1952.
                                                                                          2,
  Organizer, UE.                                                Irving Krane, Sept.     1952.
                                                                                         2,
Ellis, Hilliard                                                 Lee   Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Official, local 453,            UAW,   CIO.
Engelstein,  David                                              Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,    1952.
  Official, Communist Party,                       Illinois;
     instructor,   Communist                         Party
     school.
Erickson, Jean (nee Jean Horn)                                  Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.         3, 1952.
Feinglass, Abe                                                  Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,    1952.
  Officer, Fur and Leather Workers
    Union.
Fielde, Jerry (Gerald)                Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Former secretary-treasurer, FE-UE.
Fine, Fred                            Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Labor section, Communist Party, Il- Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
     linois.
Fisher,   Harold                                                Donald O. Spencer,        Sept. 3, 1952.
Freed, Harry                                                    Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,1952.
  Official,       UE local 1119.
Frisbie. Alvin                                                  John Edward Cooke, Sept.                3,   1952.
  Member,          FEU local 108.
Gardner, Bill                                                   Donald O. Spencer,        Sept. 3, 1952.
  Member,          local 150,     FE-CIO.
Glicker, Lottie                                                 Lee Lundgren,    Sept. 2, 1952.
  Member, UE.
Gorgolinski, Ned                                                Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Vice president,          UE local 1150.                       Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
Gray, Hazel                                                     John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Member,          local 10S,    FEU.
Gray, John                                                      Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,    1952.
  Instructor           Communist Party              school.
Green, Gil                                                      Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.                                  Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
                                                                John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
                                                                Roy Thompson, Sept. 4, 1952.
Green, George                                                   Roy Thompson, Sept. 4, 1952.
  Former           vice     president,     local       347,
     UPWA.
Gudinas, Julia                                                  Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Official,       UE   local 1150.                              Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
Gustofson,         Gus                                          Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Official, local 150,        FE.
Hall,     Catherine          (Kate)      (Mrs.        John Donald         O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952
  Watkins)
    Employed              district   office,       FE-CIO,
        Rock        Island.
Hall, Florence (Flo)                                            Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Employee,            Stewart-Warner          ;    official,   Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
    Communist Party, Illinois.
Hammersmark, Sam                   Lee Lundgren,                                 Sept. 2, 1952.
  Operates Modern Bookstore, Chi-
    cago Communist Party function-
              ;


     ary.
Handele, Arthur.             (   See Arthur Hendle. )
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                                31

                                                           Identified as   Communist             by-
Harris, Lem                                          Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,   1952.
  Instructor, Communist Party school.
Hassen, Peter                                        Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.         3,   1952.
  Member, Great Lakes Forge, local
     FEU.
Hayes, Charley                                       Roy Thompson,     Sept.       4,    1952.
  Believed an employee of the Wilson
    plant.
Hendle, Arthur                                       Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
Herman, Irving                                       Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Hillyer. Dorothy                                     Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
Horn, Annette                                        Alcide T. Kratz, Sept. 3, 1952.
  UPWA.
Horn, Jean. (See Jean Erickson.)
Howell, Willie                                       Roy Thompson,     Sept.       4,    1952.
  Member,     local 347,     UPWA.
Huff. Beatrice (Mrs.         Pope Huff)              John Edward Cooke,            Sept. 3, 1952.
  Member, FEU,        local 108.
Huff, Pope                                           John Edward Cooke, Sept.              3,    1952.
  Official,   FEU,   local 108.
Johnson, Levi                                        Roy Thompson,     Sept.       4,    1952.
  Member,      local 347,    UPWA.
Jones, Hazel                                         Donald O. Spencer,       Sept.       3,   1952.
  Member, local 150, FE-CIO.
Karpa, Mike                                          Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,   1952.
  Official, UE, and member, UE           local
    1119.
Katzen, Leon                                         Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,       1952.
  Communist Party functionary and
     staff member, UE.
Keller, Jim                                          Roy Thompson,         Sept. 4, 1952.
  Communist Party organizer.
Killinger, Charles                                   Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.         3,    1952.
  Field     representative,       Farm    Equip-
    ment Union.
Koss, Anthony                                        Irving Krane, Sept.      2,    1952.
  Financial secretary-treasurer,            local
    1150.
Kramer, Yield                                        John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3,                 1952.
Krantzler, Melvin                                    Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Official UE, district       11.
Krantzler, Milt                                      Irving Krane, Sept.      2,    1952.
Kruse. Theo (female)                                 Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
Kushner,      Sam                                    Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Communist Party organizer,             official,   Irving Krane, Sept.      2,    1952.
    UE    local 1119.
LaMaux, Ina                                          Lee Lundgren, Sept.      2,    1952.
  Official, UE.
Lassiter, Charles                                    John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
Lawson, Charles                                      Alcide T. Kratz, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Member, local       101,   FEU.                    John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
Leddel, Olaf                                         Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Watchmaker.
Levitova,Ruth                                        Lee Lundgren, Sept.       2,       1952.
  Official.   UE   local 1150.
Levine,   Murray                                     Donald O. Spencer,      Sept. 3, 1952.
  Employed, Birtman Electric.
Levine. Sarah (Mrs. Murray Levine)                   Donald   O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
Lewis, Mrs. Patricia                                 Roy Thompson,     Sept. 4, 1952.
Lightfoot, Claude                                    Lee   Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Lofgren, Raynal (Ray)                                Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Member UE.                                         Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
Lucas, Bernard                                       Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Official,   Longshoremen's Union.
32      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                Identified as Communist by
                                                                                                          —
Luke, Randolph                                               Roy Thompson, Sept 4, 1952.
  Official, local 347,      UPWA.
McHale, Jerry                                                Donald   O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Organizer, FE-CIO.
Manning, George                                              Roy Thompson,    Sept. 4, 1952.
  Executive Board, local 347, UPWA.
March, Herbert (born Herbert Fink)                           Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Organizer, local 347, UPWA, Com-                           Roy Thompson, Sept. 4, 1952.
    munist Party functionary.
     (Appeared Sept. 5, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny party member-
          ship.)
Marlovits, Joe.          (See Joseph Bezenhof-
  fer.)
Matusek, Anthony (Tony)                                      John Edward Cooke,        Sept. 3, 1952.
  Official, local 108,        FEU.
Meihs, Henry                                                 Lee Lundgren, Sept.   2,       1952.
  Field representative,            UE   local 1114.
Milkovitch, John                                             Donald   O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Employed East Moline branch,                      Inter-
       national Harvester.
Moore, Fred                                                  John Edward Cooke, Sept.              3,   1952.
  Member, FEU           local 108.
Oakes, Grant                                                 Donald   O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
Obitz, Jessie    Mrs. )
                    (                                        Roy Thompson,    Sept. 4, 1952.
     Chief steward, Morris division, local
       347,   UPWA.
O'Rear, Les (not certain of spelling)                        Roy Thompson.     Sept. 4, 1952.
  Staff member, national office UPWA.
Parks, Sam                                                   Roy Thompson,     Sept. 4, 1952.
     Employed Wilson          plant.
        (Appeared Sept. 4, 1952; refused to
          affirm or deny party member-
          ship.)
Patterson, William L.                                        Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.                               John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
                                                             Roy Thompson,     Sept. 4, 1952.
Penkovosky, Mollie                                           Roy Thompson,     Sept. 4, 1952.
  Counselor, Welfare Department,                       lo-
       cal 347.    UPWA.
Pentacost, Joseph                                            John Edward Cooke, Sept.              3,    1952.
     Official,   FEU    local 108.
Perez, Jesse                                                 Roy Thompson,     Sept. 4, 1952.
  Sergeant at arms, local 347,             UPWA.
Persley, Wilma (nee Wilma                  Horn)             Abide  T. Kratz, Sept.         3,    1952.
Peterson                                                     Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.         3,    1952.
     Emploved, Tractor Works,              local 101,
       FEU.
Poskonka, Joe                                                Roy Thompson,     Sept.    4,       1952.
     Member,     local 347,   UPWA.
Rhodes, Art                                                  Lee Lundgren, Sept.    2,      1952.
  Member, UE.
Rogalski, Walter (Wallie)                                    Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Vice president, UE, local             1150.                Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
Rogers, Mrs. Frank.            (   See Tillie Carle. )
           Andrew                                            Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.          3,   1952.
Rossi,
     Official, FEU.     local 107.
 Schmies, John                                               Alcide T. Kratz. Sept. 3, 1952.
                                                             Donald O. Spencer, Sept 3, 1952.
 Schoenfeld,       Edwin                                     John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
   Educational director, FEU.
 Scott, Robert                                               Lee Lundgren, Sept.    2,       1952.
     Member.       UE   local 1150.
 Sentner, William                                            Lee Lundsren. Sept.       2.    1952.
     Communist Party functionary                ;   at one
        time with Chicago Star.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                              33

                                                             Identified as Communist by
                                                                                                   —
Shanta. Ceorge                                           Alcide T. Kratz, Sept. 3, 1952.
  President, local 107,        FEU.
Sheehan, William          J.                             Lee Lundgren, Sept.   2,    1052.
  International representative, UE.
Smith, Adam                                              Lee Lundgren. Sept.   2,    1952.
  Vice president, UE local 1119.
Smith, Alice                                             Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Official. UE District Council No. 11.                  Irving Krane, Sept. 2, 1952.
Smith. Willie Mae                                        Lee Lundgren, Sept. 2, 1952.
  Official.    UE   local 1150.
Soso, Pasco                                              Lee Lundgren, Sept.    2,   1952.
  Official,    UE  local 1114.
Star,     Ed    (also known           as    Edward
  Brown). (Sec Edward Brown.)
Starobin. Joseph                                         Lee Lundgren, Sept.
                      —
  Foreign editor Daily Worker.
                                                                                2,   1952.

Stempel, Walter                                          Lee Lundgren, Sept.    2,       L952.
  Member, UE.
Stern, Joe                                               Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
Stoecker, Clarence                                       John Edward Cooke, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Financial secretary, local 10S, FEU.
Talley, Luther                                           Lee Lundgren, Sept.   2.    1952.
  Agent, Progressive Union Painters,
    Chicago.
                                                         Lee Lundgren, Sept.   2,    1952.
  Former       official, local 164,   UAW,        CIO.
Teeple,   Bay                                            Donald O. Spencer,    Sept. 3, 1952.
  Secretary Communist Party, Quad
    City area, Iowa.
Terry, Ben                                               Roy Thompson,     Sept. 4, 1952.
  Sergeant at arms, local 347, UPWA.
Thomas, Lane                          Roy Thompson, Sept. 4, 1952.
  Member, local 347, UPWA.
Tiegland, Donald                      Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Employed East Moline branch, Inter-
     national Harvester.
Travis, Robert                                           Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
Tribbite, LeRoy                                          Alcide T. Kratz, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Recording secretary, local 107,             FEU.
Turner, Leo                                              Lee Lundgren, Sept.        2,    1952.
  Member, UPWA, formerly member
    UE.
Van Norstrand, Joe              Alcide                            T. Kratz, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Field  representative            Farm      Equip-
    ment Union.
Verri, Bettv (Mrs. Al              Verri)                Lee Lundgren, Sept.    2,       1952.
  Member, UE.
Wagenknecht, Alfred                                      Lee Lundgren, Sept.         2,    1952.
  Top official, Communist                  Party    of
    Illinois.
Washington, Symanthia, Mrs.                              Roy Thompson,      Sept. 4, 1952.
  Member, local        347,    UPWA.
Watkins, John                                            Donald    O. Spencer, Sept.        3,   1952.
  District vice president,         FE.
Watkins, Mrs. John.             (See Catherine
  Hall.)
Weiss,    Max                                            Lee Lundgren, Sept.    2,       1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Wheelock, Rex                                            Donald O. Spencer, Sept.           3,   1952.
  Official, UE, Quad City district.
White, Booker                                            John Edward Cooke, Sept.           3,   1952.
  Official,    FEU,   local 108.
Wilson, John                                             Donald    O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Employed Red Jacket Pump                 Co.,   Dav-
    enport, Iowa.
34       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN           ACTIVITIES

                                           Identified as Communist by         —
Wilson, Mabel (Mrs. John Wilson)       Donald O. Spencer, Sept. 3, 1952.
  Secretary   treasurer,   Communist
    Party, Quad City area, Iowa.
Wood, Thomas                           Roy Thompson,   Sept.    4,   1952.
  Chief steward, local 347, UPWA.
Zarniack, Grace                        Alcide T. Kratz, Sept.    3,   1952.
  Secretary, Roseland Branch, Com-
    munist Party.

                           Philadelphia, Pa.

   Continuing the investigation of Communist infiltration into basic
industries, the committee held hearings in another concentrated indus-
trial section of the country, Philadelphia.     Within this area are
located many primary industries, RCA, Westinghouse, and GE, as
well as many so-called secondary industries such as tool and die works
which supply the tools and dies essential for the continuing defense
of our country.
  During these hearings, the committee took testimony relating to the
Communist control of Local 155, UE, which services approximately 30
of the above-mentioned type shops. Mr. Thomas F. Delaney, in his
testimony, revealed that, from the time he joined local 155 in 1941
until he severed all connections with the Communist Party and local
155 in May of this year, all major resolutions, elections, and disburse-
ment of funds were engineered and sponsored by members of the Com-
munist Party. Today, those who control the affairs of the union are
Dave Davis, admitted member of the Communist Party, and Max
Helfand, who refused to answer all questions relating to membership
in the Communist Party, both of whom are currently employed as
organizers for the local. Mr. Delaney testified that if he had not been
a member of the Communist Party he would never have secured his
position as organizer with the local, a position which he held from
1942 through May 1952, nor would he have been elected as representa-
tive of district 1, which includes eastern Pennsylvania, south New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and part of Virginia, on the national
general executive board of UE, one of the unions belatedly expelled
from the CIO for being Communist controlled and dominated.
   In connection with his stewardship as a Communist Party labor offi-
cial, Mr. Delaney attended a secret party school in New York in 1946
to which like labor leaders throughout the United States were invited
to receive instruction in Communist Party doctrine.      This school was
attended by approximately 30 or 40 individuals. The degree of se-
crecy maintained by the party concerning this school can best be illus-
trated by the fact that Mr. Delaney was instructed to assume a ficti-
tious name during his attendance and, under no circumstances, was he
to communicate the purpose of his absence from Philadelphia or make
known his whereabouts while attending this school.
   Mr. Delaney further testified that, prior to all meetings of this body
which was the national governing body of UE, he would be contacted
b} known members of the Communist Party; i. e., Joe Kuzma, trade-
     T



union secretary of the eastern district of Pennsylvania, or Walter
Berry, international representative of UE, and advised of the plans
and proposals of the party which would be introduced and which he
would support at the forthcoming board meeting. In his testimony,
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                ACTIVITIES     35

Mr. Delaney repeated again the often-heard method of control which
a group of organized members of the Communist Party, numbering
seldom more than 25 or 30, can exercise over a union of 3,000 or more
members; how, prior to each scheduled union meeting, the Communist
Party would hold a caucus of its members, also members of the union,
and assign tasks to be performed by them in the open union meeting;
tasks such as the selection of the individuals to introduce the resolu-
tions, to second them, to speak for the passage of the proposals, and to
denounce as red baiters and Fascists all those in opposition to these
proposals.
  Mr. Delaney    testified that it   was one of the primary functions of   all
Communist Party members            in influential positions in unions such
as Local 155,   UE,   to be instrumental in securing places in light industry
shops where an inexperienced Communist Party member, without
prior industrial training, might obtain valuable experience without
any questions asked as to his background or loyalty. This experience,
in turn, could be used successfully by the Communist Party member
when he or she made application for transfer to a heavy industry.
Mr. Delaney testified that he was instrumental in securing such posi-
tions for Lauren Taylor and Harold Allen in one of the shops serviced
by local 155. Taylor and Allen later transferred to Baldwin Loco-
motive and Bethlehem Steel, respectively.
   The committee has for many years conducted a continuing investi-
gation into the so-called Communist underground in the United States,
as a result of which much testimony has been taken, evaluated, and
published for all to examine and form their own opinion as to the
threat to our cherished liberty presented by this nefarious segment of
the Communist Party. Adding to this knowledge of the underground
section of the Communist Party, the committee took the testimony
of Samuel J. DiMaria, who was one of the principal organizers
of the underground section of the Communist Party in Philadelphia.
Testifying as to the method used in educating and instructing mem-
bers of this underground apparatus, Mr. DiMaria related that he was
informed by Phil Bart in late 1947 to begin to outwardly sever all
connections with the open Communist Party in Philadelphia and con-
centrate all of his time and efforts upon the study of Marxist doctrine
and the methods by which the underground apparatus had functioned
successfully in Greece, France, and other countries.   Sometime during
the early part of 1948, he was again contacted by Phil Bart and told
that his period of study was over and that he should next report to
Abe Sokolov and Joe Kuzma for his future assignment in the under-
ground apparatus in Philadelphia. Both Sokolov and Kuzma, long-
time members of the Communist Party, were among the first to be
selected by Phil Bart and Russ Nixon of the International        UE
                                                                staff to
be the principal participants in the underground work. His primary
function was that of liaison man between Sokolov and the other indi-
viduals in the apparatus, Joe Kuzma, Jack Mondress, and Mike
Fersick.
  While serving in this capacity, Mr. DiMaria was entrusted with
various sums of money by Sokolov which was to be used in organizing
work and for any other expenses incurred by the underground mem-
bers. This money was kept in a safety deposit box secured for this
purpose by him in his capacity as a union organizer and paid for by
36       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                ACTIVITIES

Communist Party funds.    Mr. DiMaria testified that it was the pur-
pose of the underground section of the Communist Party in Philadel-
phia to remain unknown and unidentified until such time as the Com-
munist Party of the United States was declared illegal. If this hap-
pened or does happen, the underground organization of the party is
to assume leadership in organizing and solidifying Communist Party
operations.
   For a better understanding of the true aims and purposes of the
underground apparatus of the Communist Party in the United States
today, we take the liberty of quoting directly from the testimony of
Mr. DiMaria on               this point   :




   However, in the spring of 1951 * * * I was informed by Mr. Sokolov that
there had been consideration of this group's activity in the event of hostilities
between the United States and the Soviet Union. I was informed that in that
event leaflets should be distributed advising the American people that such
a war was opposed to the best national interests of the American people.
   I was informed, further, that the Communist Party believed that should such
                         —
a war come to be which I certainly hope does not and I believe that everybody
in this room certainly hopes does not             —
                                      the authorities would apprehend all known
Communists and, therefore, those Communists who were not apprehended were
                     ;


to be organized in a group for the carrying out of such opposition to the general
warfare.
  In addition, it was pointed out to me that this group might be called upon to
hinder tbe war effort of the United States, especially in the trade-union move-
ment, by slowdowns, strikes, or whatever may be.
  It should be pointed out that both Mr. Delaney and Mr. DiMaria
have        Communist Party and have severed all connection with it.
         left the
  The individuals identified as members of the Communist Party by
Thomas F. Delaney and Samuel DiMaria in the Philadelphia hearings
are as follows           :



                                                             Identified as   Communist by     —
Abercauph, Jules                                          Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
  Jeweler; on district committee, Com-
      munist Party of America.
    (Appeared Oct. 14, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny party member-
         ship.   )

Allen,Harold                         Thomas Delaney,                         Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employee, Bethlehem Steel, Bethle-
    hem, Pa., member, UE local 155.
Barry, Walter                        Thomas Delaney,                         Oct. 13, 1952.
  Former International Representative
    UE now works for March of Labor
           ;


     Magazine.
Bart, Philip Abraham                                      Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  District organizer Communist Party                  ;   Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
    general manager and editor of
     Daily Worker,            New York        City.
Cestare,       Frank                                      Thomas Delaney,   Oct. 13, 1952.
  Antique dealer.                                         Samuel DiMaria,   Oct. 15, 1952.
Darcy, Sam Adams                                          Thomas   Delaney, Oct. 13, 1952.
  Furniture dealer, West Philadelphia                 :



     district organizer           Communist Party,
    Philadelphia.
Davis, Dave                                               Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Organizer, 155,      Local.UE                           Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 13, 1952;                 refused
       to affirm or deny party            member-
         ship.   )
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                              37

                                                         Identified as      Communist by             —
DeFazio.    Tom                                       Thomas   Delaney, Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employed National Metal-Edge Box
    Co.; member Local 155, UE.
           Dan                                        Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15, 1952.
Delano,
  District committee, Communist Party
    of America member National Mar-
                       ;


    itime Union now believed to reside
                           ;


    in   New      York.                                        ^   ,        _       .   ._   „__
DeMarco, Helen                                        Thomas Delaney,       Oct. Id, 1952.
  Former secretary to David Davis.                             _   ,,   .   n       ^   ._   .,.__
                                                      Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15, 1952.
Devine, Jack
  Advertising business, Philadelphia.                                           .



                                                      Thomas Delaney, Oct               13 19o2.
Donchin, Sam (also known as Sam
                                                      Samuel DiMaria, Oct.              lo, 19o2.
    Don)
  District committee, Communist Party
    of America trade-union committee,
                       ;

    Communist Party of America; dis-
    trict organizer,           Communist Party,
    Philadelphia area.                                         _   ,,
                                                      Samuel DiMaria,
                                                                        .   ~       .   -- ,r»Ko
                                                                            Oct. 15, 1952.
Dougher, Joe
  Instructor, Workers School, Philadel-
    phia, 1940.                                                                         „_ ,__
                                                      Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15, 19o2.
Eddy. Red (J. G.)
  District committee, Communist Party
    of America     candidate for Con-
                           ;


     gress, Tenth Congressional District,
     1940, Pennsylvania.
                                                      Thomas Delaney,       Oct. Id,         Uo2.
Ellis, John Kelly (also known as John
     Joseph Ellis)
  Carpenter.
    (   Appeared Oct. 14, 1952 refused to
                                       ;


         affirm or deny party member-
         ship.)
Fast.   Howard                                        Thomas Delaney,       Oct. 13, 19o2.
  Author and writer, New York City.
                                                      Thomas Delaney,       Oct. 13, 1952.
Fersick, Mike
  Salesman, Ford Agency, Broad and                    Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15. 1952.
         Alleghany.
    (Appeared Oct. 16, 1952; refused
      to affirm or deny party member-
         ship.)
Frankfeld, Philip                                     Thomas Delaney,       Oct. 13, 1952.
  Organizer Communist Party, Phila-
    delphia and Baltimore.
Gannett, Betty                                        Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15, 19o2.
  National    Committee,    Communist
    Party.
Gates, Mike                                           Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15. 1952.
  Instructor, Workers School, Philadel-
    phia, 1940.
Geiselman, Cea (Lucia) (sister of Paul            ;   Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15, 1952.
    Mrs. Joe Kres).
  Cleveland, Ohio.
Geiselman, Paul, Jr.                                  Samuel DiMaria,       Oct. 15, 1952.
  California.
Glick, Ralph                                 Samuel DiMaria,                 Oct. 15, 1952.
  Instructor,         Workers School, Phila- Thomas Delaney,                Oct. 13, 1952.
    delphia       ;   Communist Party func-
    tionary.
Goff, Irving                                          Thomas Delaney,       Oct. 13, 1952.
  Communist Party              district representa-
    tive.   New       York.
Green, Gilbert                                        Samuel DiMaria, Oct.              15, 1952.
  High Communist Party functionary.
38       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                 Identified as   Communist by     —
Helfand, Max ( also known as Mac              Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
     Harris)
  Organizer, Local 155, UE.
     (Appeared Oct. 13 and 14, 1952;
       refused to affirm or deny party
       membership. )
Heller, Otty                                  Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
  Director, Workers School, Philadel-
    phia, 1940; now in California.
Kaplan, Louis L.                              Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Organizer UE, Local 155.
Kaplan, Samuel Meyer                          Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Teacher, Overbrook High School.
Klonsky, Bob                                  Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Paid functionary of Communist Party
    in eastern Pennsylvania district.
Koczyalka, Louise (also known as              Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
    Louise Koszalka)
  Employed at Eby Co.
Kuzma, Joseph                                 Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Paid    functionary for Communist           Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
    Party, eastern Pennsylvania dis-
    trict  ;
            member Communist under-
    ground.
Levy, Sid                                     Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Member, Local 155, UE employed
                              ;


    Wiedemann Machine Shop.
Lowenfels, Walter                             Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
  Writer; editor Pennsylvania Daily
    Worker newspaper; district com-
    mitteeman, Communist Party.
McCann, Joseph                      Thomas Delaney,              Oct. 13, 1952.
  Organizer Local 155, UE.
Mondress, Jack                                Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
  Laundry truck driver, active in Team-
    sters' Union.
Morrell, Bob                                  Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
  District committee, Communist Party         Samuel DiMaria,     Oct. 15, 1952.
    of America.
Morrell, Mary                                 Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
     (Mrs. Robert Morrell)                    Samuel DiMaria,     Oct. 15, 1952.
  District committee, Communist Party
     of America.
Nabried, Tom                                  Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
  City committee of Communist Party,          Samuel DiMaria,     Oct. 15, 1952.
    Philadelphia.
Nixon, Russell Arthur                         Samuel DiMaria,     Oct. 15, 1952.
  UE  legislative director.
Parris, Nina                                  Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employee of the Hugh H.         Eby   Co.
Price,   Eleanor (also known as Eleanor       Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
    Felsenstein)
  Employee of the   Hugh   H. Eby Co.
Reams, Joseph                                 Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
  Instructor at Communist Party na-
    tional training school, Camp Bea-
    con, N. Y.
Rochester, Sterling                           Samuel DiMaria,     Oct. 15, 1952.
  Employee A. J. Workman & Co. Fur       ;



    and Lpather Workers Union.
     (Appeared Oct. 16, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
         ship.)
Saba, Philip                                  Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
  Organizer Local 155, UE.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                         39

                                                               Identified as   Communist by     —
Sehneiderinan, Jessie                                       Samuel DiMaria.    Oct. 15, 1952.
  District committee, Communist Party
    of America.
Scott,   Ernest                                             Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employed           at    Eby   Co.
Sherrington, Wilford                                        Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employed Eby Co.
Siskin,    George                                           Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Instructor at Communist Party na-
    tional training school, Camp Bea-
    con, N. Y.
Slinger,   Dan                                              Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
  Chairman, Wilmington, Del., branch
    of Communist Party in 1942.
Smith,    Norman                                            Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Former member Local 107 UE-West-
    inghouse.
Snyder, Matt                                                Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Former member Local 107 UE-West-
    inghouse.
Sokolov, Abe (also                known    as Solway,       Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
         Abe)
  Owner Frankfort  Quilt               & Bedding Co.,
    Philadelphia, Pa.
     (Appeared             Oct. 15, 1952   ;
                                               refused to
          affirm      or        deny party member-
         ship.   )

Spencer, Charles                                            Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
  Paid Communist Party functionary.
Spiller, Ethel                                              Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employed Local 155, UE.
Stachel, Jack                                               Thomas Delaney,     Oct. 13, 1952.
  Instructor Communist Party national
    training school, Camp Beacon, N. Y.
Storey, Arthur                                              Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employee of the Hugh H. Eby Co.
Strong, Ed                                                  Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  District Organizer, Communist Party.
Taylor. Lauren                                              Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Employee, Baldwin Locomotive.
Thomas, Ben                                                 Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Member, Local 155, UE.
Tisa, John
  Organizer,              Distributive         Processing
       and Office Workers of America.
     (Appeared Oct. 14, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
         ship.)
Williamson, John                                            Samuel DiMaria,    Oct. 15, 1952.
  National trade-union secretary, Com-
    munist Party.
Wood. Norris,             Jr.                               Thomas Delaney,    Oct. 13, 1952.
  Instructor, Workers                  School,     Phila-
    delphia.
Wood, Norris, Sr.                                           Samuel DiMaria, Oct.    15, 1952.
  Instructor, Workers                  School,     Phila-
    delphia, 1940.
Zucker, Jack          S.
  Executive           secretary,        Civil     Rights
         Congress.
     '
         Appeared Oct. 14, 1952 refused to ;

          affirm or deny party member-
         ship. )
 40        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN             ACTIVITIES

 COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTION-
               PICTURE INDUSTRY
   The committee originally instituted an investigation to ascertain
the scope and success of Communist efforts to infiltrate the motion-
picture industry in 1945. As the result of this early investigation,
hearings were held in 1947, at which time the committee subpenaed
10 persons associated with the industry who had been identified as
members of the Communist Party. At that time these 10 persons
refused to answer all questions concerning their Communist associa-
tions, as a result of which they were cited for contempt of Congress,
and all received and served jail sentences.
   From that time until 1951, the committee had carefully investigated
all aspects of Communist efforts to infiltrate the motion-picture in-
dustry, and in 1951 hearings were resumed. At that time, the com-
mittee experienced much fuller cooperation and assistance from indi-
viduals in and associated with the motion-picture industry. As a
result, the committee ascertained that the Communist efforts to in-
filtrate this industry had been a full-scale and carefully planned opera-
tion and that the Communist Party had been successful in recruiting
individuals in important and strategic positions in almost all phases
of motion-picture production. Had these Communist efforts gone
unexposed, it is almost inevitable that the content of motion pictures
would have been influenced and slanted and become a medium for
Communist propaganda.
  As a result of the many  revelations from persons who had recognized
the traitorous nature of the Communist Party, the committee de-
veloped much more information concerning communism in the motion-
picture industry which resulted in additional hearings during the
past year. The committee wishes to urge that all fields of entertain-
ment and culture maintain a steadfast vigilance in order to avoid the
possibility of further Communist infiltration into them.
   There follows a listing of those individuals who, through the
knowledge gained during their own past membership in the Com-
munist Party, have been of invaluable assistance to the committee
and the American people in supplying facts relating to Communist
efforts and success in infiltrating the motion-picture industry.
                                              Date of appearance
Bassman, George                            Jan. 28, 1952.
Beck, George                               Sept. 25, 1951.
Berkeley, Martin                           Sept. 19, 1951.
Bridges, Lloyd                             Oct. 22, 1951.   (Bridges furnished an
                                             executive sworn statement, testify-
                                             ing fully as to his former Communist
                                             Party membership. It has not been
                                             made   public.)
Collins,   Richard                         Apr. 12, 1951.
Dmytryk, Edward                            Apr. 25, 1951.
Ettinger, Eve                              Sept. 10, 1951.
Fleury, Bernyce Polifka (Mrs.     Eugene   Sept. 24, 1951.
  Fleury)
Fleury, Eugene                             Sept. 10, 1951.
Frank, Anne    Ray   (Mrs. Melvin Frank)   Sept. 10, 1951.
Hayden, Sterling     (legal   name: John   Mar. 21, 1951.
  Hamilton)
Huggins, Roy                               Sept. 29, 1952.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                          ACTIVITIES     41

                                                    Date of appearance
Jauney, Leon                                     Feb. 13, 1952.   (Janney appeared in
                                                   executive session and testified fully
                                                   as to his former membership in the
                                                   Communist Party. It has not been
                                                   made   public.)
Kazan, Elia                                      Apr. 10. 1952.
Keating, Fred                                    July 19, 1951.  (Keating appeared in
                                                   executive session and testified fully
                                                   as to his former membership in the
                                                   Communist Party. It has not been
                                                   made public.)
Lawrence, Marc                                   Apr. 24, 1951.
Lennart, Isobel                                  May   20, 1952.
Levy, Melvin                                     Jan. 28, 1952.
Marion, Paul                                     Oct. 2, 1952.
Odets, Clifford                                  May 19-20, 1952.
Parks, Larry                                     Mar. 21, 1951.
Raksin, David                                    Sept. 20, 1951.
Roberts, Stanley                                 May 20, 1952.
Rosenberg, Meta Reis                             Apr. 13, 1951.
Schoenfeld, Bernard C                            Aug. 19, 1952.
Schulberg, Budd Wilson                           May 23. 1951.
Townsend, Leo                                    Sept. 18, 1951.
Tuttle,Frank Wright                              May 24, 1951.
Vinson, Owen                                     Oct. 2, 1952.
Wilson, Elizabeth (Mrs. Richard Wil-             Sept. 21, 1951.
  son nee Anderson )
       ;




  The following persons have been identified as present or past mem-
bers of the Communist Party. Many of these persons having the
opportunity that all persons named before the committee have ap-
peared before the committee and have refused to affirm or deny the
statements made concerning their membership in the Communist
Party. "Where there is identifying information concerning the indi-
viduals listed, it does not necessarily indicate the individual's present
position or occupation but indicates the identification as made by the
witness.
  There may occur instances in which individuals so identified have a
name  similar to persons innocent of any Communist connections. In
such instances the committee will gladly correct any misunderstanding
upon notification.                                                                   —
                                                    Identified as    Communist by
Albert,    Sam                                  Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  Musician.
Alexander, Harmon (Hy)                          Paul Marion, Oct.     2,   1952.
  Radio writer.                                 Owen   Vinson, Oct.   2,    1952.
    (Appeared Oct.     6,   1952,   and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny Commu-
      nist Party membership.)
Altman, Mischa                                  David Raksin,      Sept. 20, 1951.
  Musician.
Ames, Robert                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  Craft worker, movie industry.
Amster, Lou                                     Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.                                       Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Appelbaum, Max. (See Matt Pellman.)
Appelman, Max. (See Matt Pellman.)
Arden, Betty                                    Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Babb, Sonora                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.                                       George Bassman, Jan. 28, 1952.
42    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                      Identified as   Communist      by-
Backus, Georgia (Mrs.     Hy   Alexander)       Paul Marion, Oct.      2, 1952.
  Actress.                                      Owen    Vinson, Oct.   2,   1952.
     (Appeared Sept.    19, 1951,   and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny       Commu-
      nist    Party membership.)
Barrie, Lee                                     Owen    Vinson, Oct.   2,   1952.
  Singer.
Barzman, Ben                                    Leo Townsend, Sept.          18, 1951.
  Writer.                                       Martin Berkeley, Sept.       19, 1951.
                                                Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
                                                George Glass, Jan. 21, 1952.
Barzman, Norma (Mrs. Ben Barzman)               Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                Roy Huggins,       Sept. 29, 1952.
Bassman, Kay (formerly Mrs. George              Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Bassman     )                                 George Bassman, Jan. 28, 1952.
Becker, Leon                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Musician.
Bein, Albert                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  Writer.
Bela, Nicholas                                  Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1851.
  Writer.                                       Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                Eve   Ettinger, Sept. 10, 1951.
Bengal, Ben                                     Leo Townsend, Sept.         18, 1951.
  Writer.
Benson, Sidney (also known as Ted               Leo Townsend, Sept.         18, 1951.
    Wellman )                                   Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.                  Clifford Odets. May 19, 1952.
Bercovici, Leonardo                             Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Writer.                                       Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
     (Appeared    May   16, 1951,   and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Berry, John (Jack)                              Edward Dmytryk, Apr.              25, 1951.
  Director.                                     Frank    Tuttle,May 24, 1951.
                                                Stanley   Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Bessie,   Alvah                                 Edward Dmytryk, April 25, 1951.
  Writer.                                       Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct.     28, 1947,   and   re-   Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
      fused to affirm or deny member-           William Blowitz, Sept. 20, 1951.
      ship in the Communist Party.)             Isobel Lennart,     May     20, 1952.
Biberman, Edward                                Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13,             1951.
  Artist.                                       Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                Stanley Roberts,       May    20, 1952.
Biberman, Mrs. Edward.
   (See Sonja Dahl.)
Biberman, Gale.
   (See Gale Sondergaard.)
Biberman, Herbert                      Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
  Director.                            Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct. 29, 1947, and re- Budd Schulberg, May 23, 1951.
       fused to affirm or deny member- Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
       ship in the Communist Party.)   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                       David Raksin, Sept. 20, 1951.
                                                Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
                                                Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Blache, Herbert                                 Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Actor.
BlaeheVMrs. Herbert.                            Richard Collins, Apr.         12, 1951.
      ANNUAL REPORT. COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                               43

                                                Identified as Communist by
                                                                                  —
Blankfort,    Henry                          Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
  Writer.                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.       19, 1951.

    (Appeared Sept.            and re-
                         18, 1951,           Isobel Lennart,   May     20, 1952.
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Blankfort, Lorry.                            Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Boretz, Allen
                                             Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.
Brand. Phoebe                                Leo Townsend, Sept.   18, 1951.
                                             Eliz Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
(Mrs. Morris Carnovsky)
  Actress.                                   Clifford Odets, May 19, 1952.
Bright, John
                                             Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Writer.                                    Frank Tuttle. May 24, 1951.
                                             Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                             Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                             Budd Schulberg, May 23, 1951.
Bright, Josephine (Mrs. John Bright).
                                             Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Bromberg, Goldie (Mrs. J. Edward             Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                             .Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Bromberg. )
Brown, F.                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Buchman, Beatrice (Mrs. Sidney Buch-         Martin Berkeley, Sept.     19, 1951.
  man.)                                      Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
Buchman, Harold                              Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
  Writer                                     Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                             Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
    (Appeared Apr. 17, 1951, and re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-        Anne Ray Frank,     Sept. 10, 1951.
      ship in the     Communist Party.)
Buchman, Sidney                              Martin Berkeley. Sept.      19.   1951.
  Writer, producer.
     (Appeared Sept. 25, 1951. He was
       later subpenaed to appear again
       before the committee on Jan. 25
       and 28, 1952, and in both in-
       stances failed to respond to the
       subpenas.   As a result. Sidney
       Buchman is under indictment
       for contempt of Congress.)
Burns, Jessie
                                             Martin Berkeley, Sept.      19, 1951.
  Studio reader                              Elizabeth Wilson. Sept. 21, 1951.
                                             Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
Burrows, Abe                                 Owen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
  Writer
    (Appeared Nov. 12, 1952 testimony
                                   ;


      was vague as to Communist
      Party membership and is still
      under investigation. )
Burton, Yal                                  Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
Butler,   Hugo                               Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
  Writer.                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.      19, 1951.
                                             Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                             Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Butler, Jean (Mrs. Hugo Butler)              Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
  Writer.
Campbell, Mrs. Alan.    (See Dorothy
  Parker. )
Carlisle,   Harry                            Budd   Schulberg,   May
                                                                   23, 1951.
  Writer.                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                             Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                             Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
Carnovsky, Morris                            Marc Lawrence, Apr. 24, 1951.
  Actor.                                     Leo Townsend,     Sept. 18, 1951.
     (Appeared Apr.             and re-
                         24, 1951,           Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
       fused to affirm or deny member-       Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
       ship in the Communist Party.)
Carnovsky, Mrs. Morris.        (See Phoebe
  Brand.)
      H. Rept. 2516, 82-2      i
44      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                        Identified as    Communist by          —
Chamberlin, Howland                                 (Investigation identifying Mr. Cham-
  Actor.                                              berlin as a member of the Communist
      (Appeared Sept.    18, 1951,     and   re-      Party has not been made public.)
        fused to affirm or deny member-
        ship in the Communist Party.)
Chapman, Tom                                        Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 195L
  Studio reader.
Chodorov, Edward                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.         19, 1951.
  Producer.
Chodorov, Jerome                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  Writer.
Clark, Maurice                                      Edward Dmytryk,         Apr. 25, 1951.
                                                    Frank   Tuttle,   May   24, 1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Cole, Lester                                        Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Writer.                                           Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
      (Appeared Oct.     30,   1947,   and   re-    Marc Lawrence, Apr. 24, 1951.
        fused to affirm or deny Commu-              Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25. 1951.
        nist Party membership.)                     Budd    Schulberg,   May       23, 1951.
                                                    Frank   Tuttle,    May 24,     1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                    William Blowitz, Sept. 20, 1951.
                                                    Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                    Melvin Levy, Jan.   28, 1952.
                                                    Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
Cole, Mrs. Lester                                   William Blowitz, Sept. 20, 1951.
Comingore, Dorothy                                  Max Silver, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Actress.
       (Appeared Oct.    6,    1952,   and   re-
        fused to affirm or deny Commu-
        nist Party membership.)
Corey, George                                       Edward Dmytryk,         Apr. 25, 1951.
  Writer.
Corey, Jeff                                         Marc Lawrence, Apr.          24, 1951.
  Actor.                                            Paul Marion, Oct.       2,    1952.
       (Appeared Sept.    21, 1951,    and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny Commu-
      nist Party membership.)
Crutcher, Norval                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
  Organizer, Technicians local, IATSE.
Dahl, Sonja (Mrs. Edward Biberman).                 Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                    Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                    Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
D'Ambarey, Bob                                      Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
D'Ambarey, Leona                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Studio secretary.
Dana, Ambur.    (See Mrs. Ambur Salt.)
Dare, Danny                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept.           19, 1951.
  Theatrical producer.
    (Appeared as witness on Sept. 27,
      1951, and denied he had ever
      been a member of Communist
      Party. This matter is still under
      investigation by the committee.)
DaSilva, Howard                                     Martin Berkeley, Sept.           19, 1951.
     Actor.
       (Appeared Mar.     21, 1951,    and    re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Dassin, Julius (Jules)                              Edward Dmytryk,         Apr. 25, 1951.
  Director.                                         Frank    Tuttle,   May    24, 1951.
Davidson, Ellen                                     Paul Marion, Oct.        2,    1952.
       Housewife ex-actress.
                  ;


Dimsdale,      Howard                               Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
     Writer.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                       45

                                                       Identified as Communist by         —
Donath, Hannah Schwartz                            (Investigation identifying Mrs. Donath
  (Mrs Ludwig Donath)                                as Communist Party has not been
    (Appeared Sept.        12, 1951,   and   re-     made   public.)
       fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in the Communist Party.)
Dratler, Irving.   (See Alvin Hammer.)
Dreher, Carl                           Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Engineer technician.
                 ;



D'Usseau, Arnaud                       Martin Berkeley, Sept. 1!>, 1951.
  Writer.                              Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
D'Usseau, Susan (Mrs. Arnaud D'Us- Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
   seau)
Edgley, Leslie                         Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
Edmond, Sue (See Sue Lawson.)
Elisku, Edward                         Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.
Ellis, Dave                            Owen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
  Radio actor and writer.
    (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952 and refused
      to affirm or deny membership in
      the       Communist Party.)
Endfield, Cyril                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.     19, 1951.
  Writer director.
            ;


Endore, Guy                                        Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.                                          Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
Faragoh,   Elizabeth         (Mrs.     Francis     Edward Dniytryk, Apr.        25, 1951.
  Faragoh)
Faragoh, Francis                                   Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
  Writer.                                          Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
                                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Farmer, Mary Virginia                              Mildred Ashe. Sept. 17, 1951.
  Actress.                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
    (Appeared Sept.        21, 1951,   and   re-
       fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in Communist Party.)
Finn, Pauline Lauber (also known as Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Pauline Lauber)
Fiske, Dick                            Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
  Movie studio.
Folkoff, Isaac "Pop"                               Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
Foreman, Carl                                      Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.                                          Melvin Levy, Jan. 28, 1952.
    (Appeared Sept.        24, 1951,   and   re-   Stanley Roberts,    May   20, 1952.
       fused to affirm or deny         Commu-
       nist Party Membership.)
Eraser, Bernice                                    David Raksin, Sept.   20, 1951.
Fuller, Lester                                     Eve Ettinger, Sept.   10, 1951.
  Writer.
Geer, Will                                         Harold Ashe, Sept.    17, 1951.
  Actor.
    (Appeared Apr.         11, 1951,   and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in        Communist Party.)
Gilbert, Ed                                        Martin Berkeley, Sept.       19,    1951.
  Set designer.
Gleichman, Kelly                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept.      19, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Glenn, Charles                                     Richard Collins, Apr.      12,     1951.
  Writer, People's World.                          Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                   Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                   Paul Marion, Oct.   2, 1952.
                                                   Owen, Vinson,   Oct. 2, 1952.
Glenn, Elizabeth Leech (Mrs. Charles
  Glenn.)    (See Elizabeth Leech.)
Goldberg, Alice. (See Mrs. Ian Hunter.)
46       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                       ACTIVITIES

                                                                Identified as   Communist by      —
Goldman, Harold                                          Martin Berkeley, Sept.           19, 1951.
  Writer.
Goldman, Kathleen (Mrs. Harold Gold-                     Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
  man)
Gordon, Donald                                           Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
  Assistant editor,          studio        story   de-
      partment.
     (Appeared Sept.         24, 1951,       and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Gordon, Michael                                          Edward Dmytryk, Apr.       25, 1951.
  Director.                                              Frank    Tuttle,   May24, 1951.
     (Appeared Sept.         17, 1951,       and   re-   Martin    Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Gorney, Jay                                              Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
  Song     writer.                                       Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                         Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                         George Glass, Jan. 21, 1952.
Gorney. Sondra (Mrs. Jay Gorney)                         Leo Townsend. Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                         Charles Daggett. Jan. 21, 1952.
Gough, Lloyd                                             Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
  Actor.                                                 Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
     (Appeared        May    17, 1951,       and   re-
         fused to affirm or deny member-
         ship in the Communist Party.)
Graff,   Fred                                            (
                                                             Investigation identifying Mr. Graff as
  Actor.                                                      a member of the Communist Party
     (Appeared April         13, 1951,       and   re-        has not benii made public.)
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Grant, Elizabeth (Betty)                                 Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Grant, Morton                                            Martin Berkeley, Sept.  19, 1951.
  Writer.                                                William Blowitz, Sept.  20, 1951.
                                                         Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Greenherg, Alex                                          Stanley Roberts,       May
                                                                               20, 1952.
Grennard, Elliott                                        Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
Gruen, Margaret (Peggy)                                  Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
  Writer.                                                Paul Marion, Oct.  2, 1952.
Hallgren, George                                         Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
Hallgren. Nora    (Mrs. George Hall-                     Richard Collins, April 12, 1951.
    gren)                                                Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                           Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
Hammer, Alvin (real name; Irving                         Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
    Dratler)
  Actor.
     (Appeared        May    16,   1951,     and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Hammett, Dashiell                                        Martin Berkeley, Sept.            19,   1951.
  Writer.
Harper, Annette                                          Paul Marion, Oct.        2,   1952.
  Actress.                                               Owen    Vinson, Oct.     2.   1952.
     (Appeared Oct.          6,    1952,    and    re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Harris, Lou                                              Harold Ashe, Sept. 17. 1951.
  Publicity man.                                         Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                         Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Harris.    Vera      (Mrs.   Lou Harris)                 Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                         Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                         Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
        ANNUAL REPORT. COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                               47

                                                           Identified as   Communist           bit   —
Hellinan, Lilliau                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.              19,    1951.
  Playwright.
      (Appeared   May      21, 1952,     and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Hentschel, Irving Paul                               Martin Berkeley, Sept.         19, 1951.
  Crafts worker member IATSE.
                  ;



Hilberman, David                                     Bernyce Fleury, Sept.      24, 1951.
  Motion picture lay-out artist.                     Eugene Fleury,      Sept. 10, 1951.
Hilberman, Lib (Mrs. David Hilber-                   Eugene Fleury,      Sept. 10, 1951.
  man)
Hopkins, Pauline                                     Paul Marion, Oct.       2,   1952.
  Radio writer.
Huebseh, Edward                                      Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
  Writer.                                            Lee Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                     Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                     Melvin Levy, Jan. 28, 1952.
                                                     Stanley Roberts,      May 20,   1952.
                                                     Bernard S'-hoenfeld. Aug. 19, 1952.
Hunter, Ian MeLellan                                 Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.
Hunter, Mrs. Ian (Alice Goldberg)                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.         19, 1951.
Ivens, Joris                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept.         19, 1951.
  Documentary     films.
Jacobson, Eli                                        George Bassman, Jan.          28, 1952.
  Party functionary.
James, Daniel Lewis                                  Leo Townsend, Sept. IS, 1951.
  Writer.                                            Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
     (Appeared Sept.       19, 1951,     and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
James, Lilith (Mrs. Dan James)                       Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.                                            Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
     (Appeared Sept.       19, 1951,     and   re-
       fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in the Communist Party.)
Jarrico, Paul                                        Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Writer.                                            Meta Reis Rosenberg. Apr. 13, 1951.
     (Appeared Apr.        13,   1951,   and   re-   Budd   Schulberg,     Mav    23, 1951.
       fused to affirm or deny member-               Lee Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
       ship in the Communist Party.)                 Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                     David Raksin, Sept. 20, 1951.
                                                     Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                     IsoBel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
                                                     Anne Ray Frank, Sept. 10, 1951.
                                                     Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
                                                     Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                        (Elizabeth Wilson identified Paul
                                                          Jarrico as a member of the Young
                                                           Communist League.)
Jarrico, Sylvia                                      Leo Townsend,     Sept. IS, 1951.
                                                     Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                       (Elizabeth Wilson identified Sylvia
                                                         Jarrico as a member of the Young
                                                         Communist League.)
Jeffries,   Jan
  (Pen name for Henry Blankfort; see
     Henry Blankfort.)
Jerome, V. J.                                        Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
  Tarty functionary.                                 Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
    (Appeared Mar. 8, 1951, and re-                  Budd    Schulberg,    Mav     23.    1951.
      fused to affirm or deny member-                Frank Tuttle, May       24, 1951.
       ship in the    Communist Party.)              Harold Ashe, Sept.      17, 1951.
                                                     Martin Berkeley, Sept.    19, 1951.
                                                     Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                     Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
                                                     Clifford Odets, May 19. 1952.
48      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                     Identified as Communist by              —
Kahn, Gordon                                     Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Writer.                                        Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
                                                 Marc Lawrence, Apr. 24, 1951.
                                                 Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
                                                 Budd Schulberg, May 23, 1951.
                                                 Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
                                                 Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                 Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
                                                 Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                 George Glass, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                 Anne Ray Frank. Sept. 10, 1951.
Kibbee, Roland                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.                                        Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
Killian, Michael                                 Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Killian, Victor                                  Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Actor.
     (Appeared Apr.    13,   1951,   and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Klowden, Nina (also known as Anna)               Paul Marion, Oct.        2,   1952.
  Radio actress.                                 Owen  Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
Koenig, Lester                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Associate producer
     (Appeared Sept.   24, 1951,     and   re-
       fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in the Communist Party.)
Kraber, Tony                                     Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
  Actor.                                         Clifford Odets, May 19, 1952.
Kraft, Hyman Solomon (Hy)                        Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.
     (Appeared Mar.    20, 1952,     and   re-
      fused to affirm or deny member-
      ship in the Communist Party.)
Lardner, Ring, Jr.                               Richard Collins, Apr.          12, 1951.
  Writer.                                        Budd   Schulberg,   May 23, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct.    30,   1947,   and   re-   Frank   Tuttle,   May 24, 1951.
        fused to affirm or deny member-          Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
        ship in the Communist Party.)            Charles Daggett, Jan.          21, 1952.
                                                 George Glass, Jan.       21, 1952.
                                                 Anne Ray Frank,  Sept. 10, 1951.
                                                 Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                   (Elizabeth Wilson identified                  Ring
                                                     Lardner,    as a member of the
                                                                   Jr.,
                                                     Young Communist League. )
Lauber, Pauline.
  (See Pauline Lauber Finn.)
Lawson, John Howard                              Richard Collins, Apr.          12, 1951.
 Writer.                                         Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct.    27,   1947,   and   re-   Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
        fused to affirm or deny member-          Budd   Schulberg,    May 23,      1951.
        ship in the Communist Party.)            Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                 Anne Ray Frank, Sept. 10, 1951.
                                                 Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                 Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                 Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                 William Blowitz, Sept. 20, 1951.
                                                 Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                 David Raksin, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                 Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
                                                 Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                 Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Lawson, Sue (Mrs. John Howard Law-               William Blowitz, Sept. 20, 1951.
 son)                                            Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                      ACTIVITIES         49

                                               Identified as   Communist by       —
Leech, Elizabeth (Mrs. Charles Glenn)      Richard Collins, Apr.      12, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.             Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                           Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                                           William Blowitz, Sept. 20, 1951.
                                           Elizabeth Wilson. Sept. 21, 1951.
                                           Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
                                           Owen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
Lees, Robert                               Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
  Writer                               Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
    (Appeared Apr.             and re- Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                         11, 1951,
      fused to affirm or deny member- Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
      ship in the Communist Party. )   Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                           Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                           Rov Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
Leonard, Charles                           Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.
Lerner, Tillie                             Budd   Schulberg,    May   23, 1951.
  Writer.
Leverett, Lewis                            Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
  Actor.                                   Clifford Odets, May 19, 1952.
Levitt, Alfred                             Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
   Studio reader, writer.                  Melvin Levy, Jan. 28, 1952.
     (Appeared Sept. 18, 1951 refused;


       to affirm or deny party member-
          ship.)
Levitt,Helen Slote. (See Helen Slote.)
Lieberman, Irwin                           Stanley Roberts,     May   20, 1952.
  Writer.
Lindeman, Mitchell                         Paul Marion, Oct.     2, 1952.
  Director.                                Owen  Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
Lord, Sarajo                               (Investigation identifying Miss Lord
  Director, Hollywood Arts, Sciences,        as a member of the Communist Party
    and Professions Council.                 has not been made public.)
    (Appeared Oct. 7, 1952; refused to
      affirm or deny party member-
          ship.)
Losey, Joseph                              Leo Townsend,       Sept. 18, 1951.
  Director.
Losey, Louise                              Leo Townsend,       Sept. 18, 1951.
(Mrs. Joseph Losey)
MacGregor, Marjorie.
{See Marjorie Manoff.)
Maltz, Albert                              Richard Collins, Apr.      12, 1951.
  Writer.                                  Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct. 28, 1947; refused to   Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
       affirm or deny party member-        Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
          ship.)                           Anne Rav Frank,   Sept. 10, 1951.
                                           Martin Berkeley, Sept.   19, 1951.
                                           Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
                                           Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Manoff, Arnold                             Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
  Writer.                                  Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                           Leo Townsend, Sept. IS, 1951.
                                           Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                           Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Manoff, Marjorie                           Leo Townsond. Sept. 18, 1951.
(Mrs. Arnold Manoff; also known as         Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
  Marjorie Potts and Marjorie Mac-
  Gregor.)
Marrow,      Sylvia.
 (See Mrs.     Abraham   Polonsky.)
Matthews, Allen                            Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Actor.                                   Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Max, Edwin Miller                          Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
  (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952: refused to       Owen  Vinson. Oct. 2, 1952.
    affirm or deny party membership.)
50    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                            Identified as   Communist by        —
McElroy, Walter                                         Mildred Ashe, Sept.        17, 1951.
  Writer.
McGrew, John                                            Eugene Fleury,      Sept. 10, 1951.
  Cartoon animator.
Meyers, Henry                                           Leo Townsend, Sept.        IS, 1951.
  Writer.                                               Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                        George Glass, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                        1 '.ernard Schoenf eld, Aug. 19, 1952.


Miller,  John (also           known     as    Skins     Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
     Miller)
  Actor.
Miller, Patricia                                        Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
(Mrs. John Miller)
Miller,    Paula                                        Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
(Mrs. Lee Strasberg)
  Actress.
     (Mr.     Kazan       testified   that   it   was
       his belief that Paula Miller had
       broken from the Communist
       Party.)
Mischel, Josef                                          Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  TV story writer.
     (Appeared Sept. 24, 1951; refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
          ship.)
Moore,     Sam                                          Edward Dmytryk, Apr.          25, 1951.
  Writer.                                               Paid Marion, Oct.     2,   1952.
     (Appeared Apr. 17, 1951; refused                   Owen   Vinson, Oct.   2,   1952.
       to affirm or deny party member-
          ship.)
Morgan, Ann Roth.
(See Ann Roth Morgan Richards.)
Morley, Karen                                           Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
  Actress.                                              Marc Lawrence, Apr. 24, 1951.
     (Appeared Nov. 13, 1952; refused                   Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
       to affirm or deny party member-                  Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
          ship.)                                        Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                        Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.


Moss, Carleton                                          Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr.           13, 1951.
  Writer.
Murphy, Maurice                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  Actor.                                                Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                        Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
North, Joseph                                           Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
  Writer.
Offner,    Mortimer                                     Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
  TV work         ;   ex-screen writer.                 Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                        Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                        Melvin Levy, Jan. 28, 1952.
O'Neal, Catherine                                       Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
(Mrs. Bob Roberts)
Ornitz, Sadie                                           Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
(Mrs. Sam Ornitz)                                       Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Ornitz. Samuel                                          Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Writer.                                               Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct. 29, 1947; refused                   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
       to affirm or deny party member-                  Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
          ship.   )

Overgaard,        Andrew                                Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
  Trade-unionist.                                                     May 19, 1952.
                                                        Clifford Odets,
Page, Charles                                           Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.
Parker, Dorothy                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19.    1951.
(Mrs. Alan Campbell)
  Writer.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                 51

                                          Identified as Communist by                     —
Pellman, Matt (also       known  Mike Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                       as
    Pell, Max Appleinan or Appelbaum) Max Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Pepper, George                        Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
  Employee, Communist front organi-
    zations.
Pepper, Joy                                        Leo Townsend,    Sept. 18, 1951.
Perlin,   Paul                                     Max   Silver, Jan. 24, 1952.
  Studio worker.
    (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused to
      affirm or deny party member-
      ship.)
Pettus,    Ken                                     Owen   Vinson, Oct.      2,   1952.
  Radio writer.
Polifka,    Bernyce.    (See Bernyce Po-
  lifka Fleury.)
Polin, Ben                                         Paul Marion, Oct.   2,   1952.
  Photographer.
Polonsky, Abraham Lincoln                          Richard Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Director-writer.                                 Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
    (Appeared Apr. 25, 1951; refused               Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13,         1951.
      to affirm or deny party member-              Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
      ship.)                                       Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                   Stanley Roberts, Mav 20, 1952.
Polonsky. Sylvia Marrow                            Leo Townsend,    Sept. IS, 1951.
(Mrs. Abraham Polonsky)
Pomerance, Mortimer William                        Martin Berkeley, Sept.   19, 1951.
  Screen Writers' Guild, former execu-             Bernyce Fleury, Sept.   24, 1951.
      tive secretary.                              Eugene Fleury,    Sept. 10, 1951.
    (Appeared Feb. 5, 1952; refused to
      affirm or deny party member-
       ship.)
Potts, Marjorie.       (See Marjorie Mac-
  Gregor Manoff.)
Purcell, Gertrude                                  Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Rapf, Maurice                                      Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
  Writer.                                          Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                   Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Revere,    Ann                                     (Investigation identifying Miss Revere
  Actress.                                           as a member of the Communist Party
    (Appeared Apr. 17, 1951; refused                 has not been made public.)
      to affirm or deny party member-
      ship. )
Reynolds. Bella Lewitzky                           (Investigation identifying Mrs. Reyn-
  Dancer.                                            olds as a member of the Communist
    (Appeared Sept.      12,   1951,   and   re-     Party has not been made public.)
      fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in the Communist Party.)
Richards, Ann Roth Morgan                          Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Housewife.                                       Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
     (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
      ship.   )

Richards, Robert L.                                Roy Huggins,    Sept. 29, 1952.
  Writer.
    (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; refused
      to affirm or deny party member-
      ship.)
Rinaldo, Fred                                      Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
  Writer.                                          Leo Townsend. Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                   Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Rinaldo, Marie                                     Leo Townsend, Sept. IS, 1951.
River, W. L.                                       Martin Berkeley, Sept 19, 1951.
  Writer.
52       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                 ACTIVITIES

                                                          Identified as   Communist          by-
Roberts, Bob                                          Martin Berkeley, Sept           19, 1951.
  Producer.
Roberts, Mrs. Bob.      (See Catberine
  O'Neal.)
Roberts,     Marguerite    (professional              Martin Berkeley, Sept           19, 1951.
    name for Mrs. Jobn Sanford, nee
    Smith.)
  Writer.
     (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
         ship.)
Robeson, Naomi.                                       Owen   Vinson, Oct.    1952.
                                                                                2,

Robinson, Jack                                        Paul Marion, Oct.    1952.
                                                                           2,
  Radio writer.                                       Owen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
Robinson,    Mary                                     Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
  Radio writer.                                       Owen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
Romain, Jerome Isaac.             (See V.   J. Je-
  rome. )
Ronka, Wayne                                          Martin Berkeley, Sept.           19, 1951.
  Musician.
Rossen, Robert                                        Richard Collins, Apr.          12, 1951.
  Producer.                            Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
     (Appeared June 25, 1951; refused Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
       to affirm or deny party member- Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
       ship.)                          Anne Ray Frank, Sept. 10, 1951.
Roth, Ann.     {See Ann Roth Morgan
  Richards. )
Rousseau. Louise                                      (Investigation identifying Miss Rous-
  Writer.                                               seau as a member of the Communist
        (Appeared Sept. 21, 1951; refused               Party has not been made public.)
          to affirm or deny party member-
         ship.)
Ruthven, Madelaine                                    Richard   Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary               ;   ex-   Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13,               1951.
     writer.                                          Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                      Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                      David Raksin, Sept. 20, 1951.
                                                      Elizaltetb Wilson. Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                      Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
Sabinson, Lee                                         Eve Ettinger, Sept. 10, 1951.
  Broadway producer.                                  Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Sage, Frances                                         Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Actress.
Salt,   Ambur                                         Richard Collins, Apr.          12, 1951.
(Ambur Dana)
  Secretary.
Salt,   Waldo                                         Richard Collins, Apr.          12, 1951.
  Writer.                                             Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr.             13, 1951.
        (Appeared Apr. 13, 1951; refused              Budd Schulberg, May            23, 1951.
          to affirm or deny party member-             Frank W. Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
         ship.   )                                    Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                      Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                      David Raksin, Sept. 20, 1951.
Sanford, Marguerite.            (See Marguerite
  Roberts.)
Schneider, Isadore                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
  New Masses         editor.
Schneiderman, William                                 Richard   Collins, Apr. 12, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Schulberg, Virginia            (now Mrs. Peter Martin Berkeley,           Sept. 19, 1951.
  Viertel.)                                           Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Scofield, Janette (Mrs. Louis Scofield.)              Owen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
             ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         53

                                                       Identified as Communist by
                                                                                    —
Seofield,       Louis                              Owen  Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
  Actor, writer.
     (       Mr. Vinson testified that it was
              his belief that Mr. Seofield had
              broken from the Communist
             Party.)
Scott,       Adrian                                Edward Dmytryk,    Apr. 25, 1951.
  Producer.
     (Appeared Oct. 29, 1947; refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
       ship. )
Seidel, Louise                                     Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
Shafran, Eva                                       Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                     Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Shapiro, Art                                       Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
  Radio writer or publicist.
Shapiro, Victor                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Publicist.                                       George Bassman, Jan. 28, 1952.
Ship,Reuben                                        Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
  Radio and screen writer.                         ()wen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
    (Appeared Sept. 24, 1951; refused
      to affirm or deny party member-
             ship.)
Shore, Viola Brothers                              Martin Berkeley, Sept.   19, 1951.
  Writer.
Shore, Wilma (Mrs. Lou Solomon)                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.  19, 1951.
  Writer.                                          Roy Huggins,  Sept. 29. 1952.
Sillen,       Samuel                               Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
  Writer.
Silverblatt, Howard.           (See   Howard Da-
  Silva.)
Sklar, George                                      Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19. 1951.
  Writer.                                          Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
                                                   Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
Slote,       Helen (Mrs. Al Levitt)                Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Secretary.
         i
             Appeared Sept. 18, 1951 refused
                                        ;



              to affirm or deny party member-
              ship.)
Smith, Art                                         Elia Kazan, Apr. 10, 1952.
  Actor.                                           Clifford Odets, May 19, 1952.
Smith, Ralph                                       Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Set designer.
Solomon, Mrs. Lou. (See Wilma Shore.)
Sondergaard, Gale (Edith Holm Sond-                Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
    ergaard Mrs. Herbert Biberman)
                       ;
                                                   Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
  A. tress                                         Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
         (Appeared Mar. 21, 1951; refused
           to affirm or deny party member-
              ship.)
Sparks,         Nemmy      (Ned)                   Richard Collins, Apr.    12, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                     Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                   Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
Stander, Alice (nee Alice Twitchell).              Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Stander, Lionel                                    Marc Lawrence, Apr. 24, 1951.
  Actor.                                           Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                   Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Stander, Lucy (Mrs. Lionel Stander),               Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                   Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                   Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
54    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                Identified as Communist by
                                                                                                    —
Stapp, John                                                 Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                              Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13,           1951.
                                                            Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                            Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
                                                            William Blowitz, Sept. 20, 1951.
                                                            Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                            Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
                                                            Rov Hnggins,  Sept. 29, 1952.
                                                            Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
                                                            Owen Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
                                                            Isobel Lennart, May 20, 1952.
Stephenson, Janet.    (-See also Janet                      George Glass, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Stevenson.)
Stevenson, Janet (Mrs. Philip Steven-                       Roy Huggins,   Sept. 29, 1952.
  son).   (See also Janet Stephenson.)
Stevenson, Philip Edward
  Writer
     (Appeared Sept. 19, 1951; refused
          to affirm or deny membership in                   Roy Huggins,   Sept. 29, 1952.
          the Communist Party.)
Stewart, Donald Ogden                                       Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  Writer.
Stone, Eugene R.                                            Paul Marion, Oct.     2,   1952.
  Radio writer                                              Owen   Vinson, Oct.   2,    1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny party member-
          ship. )
Strack, Celeste                                             Roy Huggins,   Sept. 29, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Strasberg,            Mrs.   Lee.       (See       Paula
  Miller.    )

Strawn, Arthur                                              Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  Writer
    (Appeared              May   10,   1951   ;
                                                  refused
          to affirm or       deny party member-
          ship.   )

Sullivan, Elliott            (also     known      as Ely    Martin Berkeley, Sept.         19, 1951.
    Sullivan )
  Actor.
Taffel,Bess                                                 Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
  Writer                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
    (Appeared Sept. 18, 1951; refused
      to affirm or deny party member-
          ship.   )

Terkel, Ida (Mrs. Louis Terkel).                            Owen   Vinson, Oct.    2,   1952.
Terkel, Louis                                               Owen   Vinson, Oct.    2,   1952.
  Actor.
Thompson, Jim.                                              Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Tompkins, Capt. Ward Miller (War-                           Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
  wick)
  Ship captain.
Town send, Mrs. Lee                                         Leo Townsend, Jan.          18, 1951.
  (Mr. Townsend testified that Mrs.
    Townsend had broken from the
     Communist Party.)
Tranbe, Shepard                                             Martin Berkeley, Sept.         19, 1951.
  Theater director and producer
    (Appeared Mar. 6, 1952; refused to
      affirm or deny party membership.
      His testimony has not been made
          public.      )

Tree, Dorothy.    (See Dorothy Tree
  Uris.)
Trivers. Jane (Mrs. Paul Trivers).                          Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                            Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                        55

                                                       Identified as Communist by
                                                                                             —
Trivers, Paul                                       Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
  Writer.                                           Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                    Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                    Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Trumbo, Dalton                                      Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer                                            Anne Ray Frank, Sept. 10, 1951.
    (Appeared Oct. 28, 1947; refused to             Frank   Tuttle,    May    24, 1951.
      affirm or deny party member-                  Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
       ship.)                                       Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                    Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Tuttle,    Tania (Mrs. Frank Tuttle).               Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
                                                    Budd Schulberg, May 23, 1951.
                                                    Max Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                    Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Twitchell, Alice.          (See Alice Stander.)
Uerkvitz, Herta                                     Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
  Studio research department                        Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
    (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; refused
      to affirm or deny party member-
       ship. )
Uris, Dorothy       Tree (Mrs. Michael Uris)        Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
  Actress.                                          Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
                                                    Stanley Roberts, May 20, 1952.
                                                    Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Uris, Michael                                       Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
  Writer.                                           Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
                                                    Frank    Tuttle,   May
                                                                      24, 1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept.19, 1951.
                                                    Stanley Roberts,     May
                                                                         20, 1952.
                                                    Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Viertel,    Mrs.         Peter.   (See   Virginia
  Schulberg. )
Vorhaus, Bernard                                    Edward Dmytryk, Apr.    25, 1951.
  Director.                                         Frank   Tuttle,    May
                                                                       24, 1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                    Stanley Roberts,    May
                                                                          20, 1952.
                                                    Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Vorhaus, Hetty                                      Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug. 19, 1952.
Waldman, Herman (aka David Wolf)                    Paul Marion, Oct.      2, 1952.
  Radio actor.                                      Owen    Vinson, Oct.     2,   1952.
    ( Appeared Oct. *>, 1952 refused to
                                    ;


       affirm or deny party member-
       ship.    )

Waxman,         Stanley                             Paul Marion, Oct.      2,     1952.
  Radio actor.                                      Owen    Vinson, Oct.     2,   1952.
    (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused to
      affirm or deny party member-
       ship. )
Weber, John                                         Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
  Agent.                                            Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Weil, Richard                                       Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Writer.
Wellman, Ted.   (See Sid Benson.)
Wells, Miss Susan (Mrs. Arnaud D'Us-                Martin Berkeley, Sept.          19, 1951.
    seau)
  Head    Communist book-shop.
           of
Wexley, John                                        Edward Dmytryk, May              25, 1951.
  Writer.                                           Leo Townsend, Sept. IS, 1951.
                                                    Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
White, Irving       J.                              Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                    Paul Marion, Oct.      2,     1952.
56    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                     Identified as   Communist       bij-
Whitney, Lynn                                    Paul Marion, Oct.      1952.
                                                                       2,
  Actress.                                       Owen   Vinson, Oct. 2, 1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny party member-
       ship.)
Willner, George                                  Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
  Writers' agent.                                Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
     (Appeared Apr. 24, 1951; refused            Melvin Levy. Jan. 28, 1952.
       to affirm or deny party member-           Isobel Lennart,   May      20, 1952.
       ship.)
Willner, Tiba      (Mrs. George Willner)         Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
                                                 Isobel Lennart,   May      20, 1952.
Wilson, Michael                                  Bernard Schoenfeld, Aug.         19, 1952.
  Writer.
     (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; refused
       to affirm or deny party member-
      ship.)
Winter, Carl                                     Richard Collins, Apr.       12, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                   Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
                                                 Frank Tuttle, May 24, 1951.
                                                 Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
Winters, Bea (Bernadette)                        Sterling Hayden, Apr. 10, 1951.
  Secretary.
     (Appeared     May     16, 1951;   refused
      to affirm or       deny party member-
      ship.   )

Wolf, David.      (See   Herman Waldman.)
Wolff, William                                   Paul Marion, Oct.     2,   1952.
  Radio writer.                                  Owen   Vinson, Oct.   2,   1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny party member-
      ship.   )




     COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES AMONG PROFESSIONAL
         GROUPS IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA
  The committee lias long recognized the fact that the Communist
Party has directed its recruiting activities toward every form of
American life. In order to gain any semblance of strength the Com-
munists must have not only a foothold among laboring people but
among professional groups as well. The results of the extent and suc-
cess of   Communist         efforts in the professional field as typified in the
Los Angeles area were amazing.      While the committee is aware that
these hearings only exposed Communist success in a specific area, there
is every reason to believe that the Communists have had some success
in other areas.
   The hearings in Los Angeles revealed that the Communist Party
had built a formidable cell among lawyers in the Los Angeles area.
There was this Communist success notwithstanding the fact that
there is probably no other field in which the members are so
thoroughly schooled in the rights and privileges afforded by our Con-
stitution. Yet these lawyers would overthrow the very Constitution
under which they took shelter when called upon to affirm or deny
whether they were members of a group which seeks to overthrow this
Government by force and violence, if necessary.
   It was not surprising that practically all of the lawyers identified
as Communists were members of the National Lawyers' Guild. This
merely confirmed further the committee's findings that the National
Lawyers' Guild is the legal bulwark of the Communist Party.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                        ACTIVITIES   57

   The hearings in Los Angeles further disclosed that the Communist
Party had developed appreciable strength in the recruitment of mem-
bers in the medical profession. These doctors, who upon their oath
dedicate themselves to the care and preservation of human life, had
become members of an organization in which human life is held in-
significant and nonessential to the furtherance of their plans
                                                                 for
world conquest.
  Testimony in the Los xVngeles hearings also disclosed that during
a period the Communist Party had developed a cell in the newspaper
profession in Los Angeles. Testimony revealed that although the
Communist Party cell in the Newspaper Guild had constituted only a
small percentage of the total membership it was sufficiently well
organized to gain positions of importance for its members.
   The committee wishes to point out that the overwhelming numbers
of the legal, medical, and writing professions in the Los Angeles area
are completely loyal Americans and share in the shock experienced by
the committee upon learning of this almost unbelievable Communist
infiltration in the professional fields mentioned.
   The committee wishes to express its appreciation to the following
listed individuals without whose testimony as to their knowledge and
experience of Communist efforts to infiltrate professional groups in
the Los Angeles area, the committee's efforts could not have been
successful    :



                                                     Date of appearance
Aaron, David                                     Jan. 23, 1952.
Ashe, Harold J                                   Sept. 17, 1951.
Ashe. Mrs. Harold (Mildred Ashe)                 Sept. 17, 1951.
Bennett, Alice K                                 May 22. 1952.
Blowitz, William                                 Sept. 20, 1951.
Daggett, Charles                                 Jan. 21, 1952.
Daniel, Urcel                                    July 8, 1952.
Glass, George                                    Jan. 21, 1952.
Herzig, Albert                                   Jan. 23, 1952.
Israel,   William   G                            Jan. 25, 1U52.
Judson, Charles         W                        Jan. 26. 1952.
Krieger, Dr. Mendell        M                    Sept. 11, 1951.
Light.   Louise.  (See          Louise   Light
  Silver.)
Reznick, Dr.      Sam                            Sept. 11, 1951 (Dr. Reznick appeared in
                                                   executive session, testified fully as
                                                   to his former membership in the Com-
                                                   munist Party. Portions of his testi-
                                                   mony have been made     public).
Silver,   Louise Light                           Jan. 21 and 22. 1952.
Silver,    Max                                   Jan. 21, 1952.
Yerkes,    Marburg                               Jan. 25, 1952.

  The following individuals, who have been identified as members of
the Communist Party, are being listed as having been associated with
the various professional groups in the Los Angeles area. It is recog-
nized that in many instances the identifying information does not
classify the individual as being engaged in a profession but since the
testimony was received from individuals whose principal information
deals with professional groups they are being included herein. It
should also be noted that with these identifications it does not neces-
sarily indicate the present position or occupation of the individuals
but indicates the identification furnished by the witness.
 58       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                      Identified as Communist by           —
 Abowitz, Ellenore (Mrs. Murray Abo-              Dr. Mendell M. Krieger, Sept. 11, 1951.
      witz; nee Ellenore Bogigian)                Roy Huggins,     Sept. 29, 1952.
    (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951, refused to
      affirm or deny membership in the
      Communist Party.)
 Abowitz, Dr. Murray                              Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
   Physician.                                     Dr. Mendell M. Krieger, Sept. 11, 1951.
      (Appeared Sept. 21, 1951, refused           Roy Huggins, Sept. 29, 1952.
        to affirm or deny membership in
       the Communist Party.)
 Adam, Mrs. Loretta                               Harold Ashe, Sept.       17, 1951.
   Communist Party functionary.
 Aidlin, Joseph                                   Harold Ashe, Sept.  17, 1951.
   Attorney.                                      (
                                                   Jharles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
 Aidlin, Mrs. Joseph (Mary Raden)                 Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
   Office secretary, Communist Party,
      Los Angeles County.
Allen,    Jimmy                                   Harold Ashe, Sept.       17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                    Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Allen, Sam Houston                                David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                       Marburg Yerkes, Jan.         24, 1952.
    (Appeared, Oct. 1, 1952, refused to           William G. Israel, Jan.       25, 1952.
      affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Altman, George                                   David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                      Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
     (Appeared, Oct.     1,   1952, refused to    William G. Israel, Jan.         25, 1952.
         affirm   or   deny membership in
       the Communist Party.)
Austrian, Spencer                                 Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Attorney.                                       Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
     (Appeared, Oct. 1, 1952, refused to          Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
       affirm or deny membership in the
       Communist Party. )
Bachelis, Selma                                  Milton   S.   Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
  Attorney.                                      David Aaron, Jan.       23, 1952.
                                                 Albert Herzig, Jan. 23, 1952.
                                                 Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
                                                 William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
Barker, Dr. Oner B., Jr.                         Louise Light Silver, Jan. 22, 1952.
  Physician.
     (Appeared, Oct. 6, 1952, refused to
         affirm or
                deny membership        in the
         Communist Party.)
Barrigan,    Andy                                Urcel Daniel, July       8,   1952.
  Communist Party newspaper unit.
Beeman, Ruth (Mrs. Morton Beeman)                Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1952.
                                                 Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1952.
Bigelman, Dr. Leo                                Dr.   Sam   Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
 Physician.                                      Leo Townsend, Sept. 18, 1951.
      (Appeared Sept.   18, 1951, refused        Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
         to affirm or deny membership            David Raksin, Sept. 20, 1951.
         in the Communist Party.)                Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
                                                 Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
Bogner,   Max                                    Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Bogner, Marta (Mrs. Max Bogner)                  Alice Bennett,    May   22, 1952.
Bonner, Miriam                                   Harold Ashe, Sept.      17, 1951.
  Codirector Los Angeles Workers'
    School.
Bridges, Harry                                   Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
  ILWU president.
Broman, Jack (see Jack Wilson)
Bryan, Al                                        Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
 Communist Party functionary.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                   59

                                                     Identified as   Communist      by-
Burke, Sidney (Berkowitz)                        Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
 Newspaperman.                                   Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                                 Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                 Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Bush, Rose                                       Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party underground work-
    er.
Callahan, Pat                                    Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Callahan, Mrs. Pat                               Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Cefkin, Leo                                      Dr. Mendell M. Krieger, Sept.       11, 1951.
  Student.
Champion, Clyde                                  Harold Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Cline, Paul                                      Harold Ashe, Sept 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                   Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                 Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                                 Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                 Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                                 Alice Bennett, Mav 22, 1952.
                                                 Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Cohee, Alice (Mrs. John Cohee)                   Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                                 Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                 Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Cohee, John                                      Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
  Newspaperman, Communist Party                  Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
    newspaper unit.                              Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Cohn, Bob (also known as Bob Cole)               Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Connelly,  Dorothy.             (See   Dorothy
  Healy.)
Connelly, Philip                                 Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.                   Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                 Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Cope, E. O.                                      Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Corey, Mrs. George                               Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
  Advertising executive.
Covey, Florence                                  Alice Bennett,   May   22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Cullen,    Tom                                   Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Newspaperman.                                  Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Darcy,    Sam                                    Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                   Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Davis, Dr. Edwin Howard                          Dr. Mendell Krieger, Sept. 11, 1951.
  Optometrist.                                   Roy Huggins, Sept. 29. 1952.
    (Appeared Oct. 2, 1952, refused
      to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Davis, Mrs. Edwin Howard.                        Dr. Mendell Krieger, Sept. 11, 1951.
                                                 Roy Huggins,   Sept. 29, 1952.
Decker, Dr.      I.   S.                         Harold Ashe,  Sept. 17, 1951.
Dobbs, Ben                                       Marburg   Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Druckman, Dr. Jacob S.                           Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Psychiatrist.                                  Dr. Sam Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct. 2, 1952, refused to
       affirm or deny membership in the
     Communist Party.)
Druckman, Dr. Sidney                             (Investigation identifying Dr. Druck-
  Physician.                                       man as member of the Communist
     (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused           Party has not been made public.)
       to affirm or deny membership in
          the Communist Party.)
Eddy, Jonathan                                   Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Newspaper Guild organizer.
         H. Rept. 2516, 82-2-
60      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                         ACTIVITIES

                                                Identified as Communist by            —
Elfman, Rose                                Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Elkins, Dr. Oscar                           Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21 and 22, 1952.
    Board of Health.                        Dr.   Sam      Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
      (Appeared Oct. 2, 1952, refused to
        affirm or deny membership in the
        Communist Party.)
Epstein, Pauline                            David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
    Attorney.                               William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
      (Appeared Sept. 30. 1952, refused     Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
        to affirm or deny membership in
        the   Communist Party.)
Esterman, William                           David Aaron, Jan.  23, 1952.
    Attorney.                               Marburg Yerkes, Jan.   24, 1952.
      (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952, refused to    William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1951.
        affirm or deny membership in the    Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
        Communist Party.)
Feder, Dr. Morris                           Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21 and              22,
  Physician.                                  1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, refused to     Dr.   Sam      Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
       affirm or deny membership in the
       Communist Party.)
Finn, Aubrey                                David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                 Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952, refused to     Milton    S.   Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
       affirm or deny membership in the
       Communist Party.)
Foreman, Katherine                          Alice Bennett,      May 22, 1952.
    Social worker.
Foster, Dorothy                             Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24,        1952.
  Communist Party functionary
Franchi, Davida (Mrs. Fred Franchi)         Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
  School teacher                            Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
Franchi, Fred                               Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                            Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
Frankel,   J.   Allen                       Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21. 1952.
    Attorney                                David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
      (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952, and refused   Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
        to affirm or deny membership in     William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
      the Communist Party.)                 Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
Freed, Emil                                 Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary               George Glass, Jan. 21, 1952.
Freeman, M. E.                              Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Gallagher, Leo                              David Aaron, Jan 23, 1952.
  Attorney.
Gannett, Betty Bennett,                     Harold Ashe, Sept.        17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.              Mildred Ashe, Sept.        17, 1951.
Gardner, Helen                              Max   Silver, Jan.     21, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Garrigues, C. H.                            Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
    Newspaperman.                           Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Goodlaw, Dr. Edward Isiah                   (Investigation identifying Dr. Goodlaw
  Optometrist.                                as member of the Communist Party
      (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused     has not been made public.)
        to affirm or deny membership in
        the     Communist Party.)
Gordon, Emily                               Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  (Mrs. Julian Gordon)
    Louise Light Silver testified that
      she believed Emily Gordon had
      broken with the party.
Grodzins, Jane                              David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
•

  Attorney.                                 Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
                                            William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
                                            Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
Hanoff, Elmer ("Pop")                       Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party organizer.                Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                     ACTIVITIES       61

                                                                 Identified as Communist by       —
Hathaway, Clarence                                           Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Healy, Don R.                                               Harold Ashe, Sept.      17, 1951.
  Painters union.
Healy, Dorothy (alsoknown as Dorothy                        Albert Herzig, Jan. 23, 1952.
     Ray)                                                   Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
   Communist Party functionary.                             Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                            Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
                                                            Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
Hickox, Dr. Albert                                          Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
   Dentist.
Hittleman, Dr. Joseph                                       Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
        (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused                 Sam Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
          to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party).
Holther,   William   Benjamin   (also                       Mildred Ashe, Sept.       17, 1951.
  known as Wilben Holther).
Hull, Charlotte (Mrs. Morgan Hull)                          Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                            Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Ingham, William                                             Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Jeffrey, J. E.                                              Alice Bennett,    May   22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Johnson, Grover                                             Max     Silver, Jan. 22, 1952.
  Attorney
        (Appeared Oct.            1,   1952,    and   re-
         fused to affirm or deny member-
         ship in the Communist Party.)
Jones, Lillian                                              Harold Ashe, Sept.      17, 1951.
  Codirector, Los             Angeles          Workers'
    School.
Kaplan, Victor                                              Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Attorney                                                  David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
    (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952, and re-                         Albert Herzig, Jan. 23, 1952.
      fused to affirm or deny member-                       Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
         ship in the    Communist Party.)                   William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
                                                            Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
Kashner, Milt                                               Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Katz, Mrs.                                                  Dr. Mendell M. Krieger, Sept. 11, 1951.
Katz, Charles                                               Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Attorney                                                  David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952, and refused                    Albert Herzig, Jan. 23, 1952.
       to affirm or deny membership in                      Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
         the   Communist Party.)                            William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
                                                            Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
Katz. Robert D.                                             David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                                 Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
    (Appeared as witness Oct. 1, 1952,                      William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
      and refused to affirm or deny                         Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
      membership in the Communist
         Party.)
Kempler, Dr. Walter                                         (   Investigation identifying Dr. Kempler
  Physician.                                                     as member of the Communist Party
    (   Appeared Oct.        3,   1952,   and refused            has not been made public.)
         to    affirm   or
                       deny               Communist
         Party membership.)
Kibre,    Jeff     (also     known         as    Barry Harold Ashe, Sept.         17, 1951.
  Wood.)                                                    Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                              Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
Kibre, Virginia (Mrs. Jeff Kibre)                           Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                            Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Killoran, Pat                                               Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
  Newspaperwoman.                                           Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                            Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
62       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                     Identified as Communist by      —
Klein, Herbert                                   Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Newspaperman teacher
                     ;
                                                 Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
     (Appeared      as   witness   Sept.   18,   Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
          1951, and refused to affirm or Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
          deny membership in the Commu- Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
          nist Party.)                           Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                 Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Klein,    Minna (Mrs. Herbert Klein)             Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                 Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                 Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                 Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                                 Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                 Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Knappen, Gail (Gale)                             Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Communist Party newspaper          unit.
Konigsburg, Raphael                              Alice Bennett,   May   22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Koppelman, Dr. Harold                            (Investigation identifying Dr. Koppel-
  Physician.                                       man as member of the Communist
    (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused            Party has not been made public.)
      to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Lambert, Rude                                    Mildred Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Lechrome, Cliff                                  Harold Ashe,  Sept. 17, 1951.
Leech, John                                      Harold Ashe,  Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                   Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Lester, Dr. Milton                               (Investigation identifying Dr. Lester as
  Psychiatrist.                                    member of the Communist Party has
     (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused           not been made public.)
       to affirm or deny membership in
       the Communist Party.)
Letzman, Melvyn                                  Harold Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Lieberman, Dr. Benjamin                          (Investigation identifying Dr. Lieber-
  Physician.                                       man as member of the Communist
     (   Appeared Oct. 2, 1952, and refused        Party has not been made public.)
          to affirm or deny membership in
         the   Communist Party.)
Liefchild, Gerald                                Alice Bennett,   May   22, 1952.
  Hospital technician.
Liefchild, Gladys (Mrs.       Gerald Lief- Alice Bennett,         May   22, 1952.
     child)
  Hospital employee.
Light,    Noum                                   David Aaron, Jan.      23, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Lishner, Arthur                                  (Investigation identifying Mr. Lishner
  Pharmacist.                                      as member of the Communist Party
     (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused           has not been made public. )
       to affirm or deny membership in
       the Communist Party. )
Mandell, Seymour                       David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                            Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
     (Appeared as witness on Oct. 1, William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
       1952, and refused to affirm or Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
       deny membership in the Commu-
       nist Party.)
Marcus, Freda                          Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Marcus, Dr. Simson                     Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21 and 22,
  Physician.                             1952; Dr. Sam Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
    (Appeared as witness Oct. 3, 1952,
       and refused to affirm or deny
          Communist Party membership.)
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                    63

                                                        Identified as   Communist by    —
Margolis, Ben                                       Milton   Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
                                                             S.
  Attorney.                                         George Glass, Jan. 21, 1952.
     (Appeared as witness Sept. 30, 1952,           Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
       and refused to affirm or deny                Paul Marion, Oct. 2, 1952.
       Communist Party membership.)                 Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                    Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
                                                    David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
                                                    Marburg Yerkes, Jan.   24, 1952.
                                                    William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
McClaughlan, Charles                                Albert Herzig, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
McTernan, John                                      David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                         Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
                                                    William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
                                                    Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
Miller, Ida (Mrs.     Jay Miller)                   Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Cloakmakers union.
Miller,   Tom                                       Harold Ashe,     Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Moore, Jack                                         Harold Ashe, Sept.      17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Moore, Mrs. Jack                                    Harold Ashe, Sept.      17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Most, Rose                                          Alice Bennett,   May    22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Nedelman, Dr. Jack                                  (Investigation identifying Dr. Nedelman
  Physician.                                          as member of the Communist Party
     (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused              has not been made public.)
       to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
O'Connor,   Oleta  (Oleta   O'Connor                Mildred Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
    Yates)
  Communist Party functionary.
O'Connor, Tom                                       Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
  Newspaperman.                                     Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
     (Appeared as witness May 22, 1952,             Urcel Daniel, July S, 1952.
       and refused to affirm or deny
       Communist Party membership.)
Oliver, Bill                                        Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Newspaperman        ;
                          drama   critic.           Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Pally, Henrietta                                    Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Patterson,      Tom                                 Harold Ashe, Sept.      17, 1951.
  Newspaperman        ;
                          Communist         Party
    functionary.
Pennes, Dr. Alexander                               Louise Light Silver, Jan. 22, 1952.
  Physician radiologist.
                 ;


     (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952, and refused
       to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Perry, Pettis                                       Mildred Ashe, Sept.   17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                      Max  Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
                                                    Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                                    Alice Bennett,    May   22, 1952.

Perry, Dr.      Thomas
                     L.                             Louise Light Silver, Jan. 22, 1952.
  Physician    pediatrician.
                 ;


     (Appeared Oct. 2, 1952, and refused
       to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Pestana, Frank                                      David Aaron, Jan. 23,      1952.
  Attorney.                                         Marburg Yerkes, Jan.   24, 1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952, and refused            William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
       to affirm or deny membership in              Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
          the   Communist Party.)
64        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                        Identified as Communist by          —
Pestana, Jean (Mrs. Frank Pestana)                  David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                         Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
Pezinan, Dorothy                                    Alice Bennett,     May   22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Porter,     John                                    David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney                                          William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
    (Appeared Sept. 30, 1952, and re-               Albert Herzig, Jan. 23, 1952.
      fused to affirm or deny member-               Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
      ship in the        Communist Party.)          Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1952.
Praeger, Nat                                        Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                      Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Prokop, Prokop Jack                                 (Investigation identifying Mr. Prokop
  Dry cleaning establishment                          as a Communist Party member has
         (Appeared Sept.    12, 1951,   and   re-     not been made public.)
       fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in the Communist Party.)
Raden, Mary. (See Mrs. Joe Aidlin.)
Ray, Dorothy. (See Dorothy Healy.)
Reese, Mercier                                      Alice Bennett,    May    22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Reeves, Nancy                                       David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                         Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
Reynolds, Dr. Frederick G.                          Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Ophthalmologist                                   Dr. Sam Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct. 2, 1952,            and re-
       fused to affirm or deny          member-
      ship    the Communist Party.)
                 in
Reznick, Sarah (Mrs. Sam Reznick)                   Alice Bennett,    May    22, 1952.
  Social worker.
Richman, Matt                                       David Aaron, Jan. 23,       1952.
  Attorney                                          Marburg Yerkes, Jan.       24, 1952.
    (Appeared Sept.         30, 1952,   and   re-
       fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in the Communist Party.)
Riskin, Dr. Alexander                               Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Physician, Bellevue Hospital, New                 Dr. Sam Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
     York       City.
Robbins,        Ed                                  Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Newspaperman.                                     Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                                    Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                    Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Roberts, Dr. Bertram L.                             Louise Light Silver, Jan. 22, 1952.
  Optometrist
     (Appeared Oct. 2, 1952, and refused
       to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Rosenberg, Rose                                     Marburg Yerkes, Jan.        24, 1952.
  Attorney                                          Milton   S.   Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
     (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952, and refused
       to affirm or deny membership in
          the   Communist Party.)
Rosenblum, Dr. Gordon                               Dr. Mendell M. Krieger, Sept. 11, 1951.
  Physician surgeon  ;


     Appeared Oct. 2, 1952, and refused
     (


      to affirm or deny
                        membership in
          the   Communist Party.)
Rosenwein. Samuel                                   Marburg Yerkes, Jan.       24, 1952.
  Attorney.
Ross, Lawrence                                      Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                      Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
                                                    Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
Ryan. Allen Lane                                    Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Ryan, Maureen                                       Alice Bennett,    May   22, 1952.
  Social worker.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                              ACTIVITIES        65

                                                          Identified as Communist by
                                                                                            —
Rykoff, Richard L.
                                                      David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.
     (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny membership in the
       Communist Party.)
Samuels, William M.
                                                      David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                           Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
    (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952; refused to
      affirm or deny membership in the
          Communist Party.)
                                                      Martin Berkeley, Sept.    19. 1951.
Sanford, John
  Attorney.                                           Elizabeth Wilson, Sept. 21, 1951.
    (Appeared Sept.      20,      1951,   and   re-
       fused to affirm or deny member-
       ship in the Communist Party. )
Schoen, Dr. Max
                                                      Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Physician.                                          Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
     (Appeared Sept. 21, 1951; refused
       to affirm or deny membership in
       the Communist Party.)
                                                      Louise Light Silver, Jan.    22, 1952.
Schonfield, Dr. Louis
  Dentist.
     (Appeared Oct. 3, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny membership in the
          Communist Party.)
Segure, Rose
                                                      Alice Bennett,   May   22, 1952.

  Social worker.
Selden, Betty
                                                      Alice Bennett,   May   22, 1952.

  Social worker.
     (Appeared Oct. 7, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny membership in the
          Communist Party.)
           Richard                                    Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
Seller,
  Newspaperman.                                       David Aaron, Jan.  23, 1952.
Shandler, Esther
                                                      Marburg Yerkes, Jan.  24, 1952.
  Attorney.
                                                      William G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
     (Appeared Sept. 30, 1952; refused                Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
       to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Shapiro, Julian (Jack).   (See              John
  Sanford.)                                           David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
Silberstein,   Robert   J.
  Attorney.
                                                      Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
     (   Appeared Apr. 9, 1952 refused to
                                    ;


          affirm or deny membership in the
          Communist Party.)
                                                      Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
Simon, Leo
                                                      Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Newspaperman.
                                                      Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
                                                      Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
Smith, Darr
                                                      Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
  Newspaperman.
                                                      Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                                      Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Snider, Fred M.
                                                      David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                           Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
     (Appeared Oct. 1, 1952; refused to
       affirm or deny membership in the
          Communist Party.)
Solomon, Miriam                                       Alice Bennett,   May 22, 1952.
  Social Worker
Solotoy, Percy
                                                       Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
   Attorney                                            Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
     (Appeared as witness Sept. 17, 1951,              Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
       and refused to affirm or deny
          membership         in         Communist
          Party.)
66    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                ACTIVITIES

                                                        Identified as    Communist by-
Solotoy, Mrs. Percy         (also   known     as    Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
     Sonya Solotoy)                                 Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Attorney                                          Alice Bennett.    May 22, 1952.
Sosin, Dr.   Max                                    Louise Light Silver, Jan.      22, 1952.
  Dentist
     (Appeared as witness Oct. 3, 1952,
       and refused to affirm or deny
        membership in the Communist
       Party.)
Specter, Frank                                      Marburg Yerkes, Jan.      24, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary
Sperber, Lawrence                                   Marburg Yerkes, Jan.      24, 1952.
  Attorney
    (Appeared as witness Oct.          1,   1952,
        and refused    to    affirm or      deny
        membership     in the       Communist
       Party.)
Sperling, Dr. Sam                                   Louise Light Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Psychiatrist                                      Dr. Sam Reznick, Sept. 11, 1951.
     (Appeared as witness Oct.     3, 1952,
        and refused     to affirm or deny
        membership     in the Communist
       Party.)
Steinberg, Max                                      Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary
Steinmetz, Fred                          David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney                               Albert Herzig, Jan. 23, 1952.
    (Appeared as witness Sept. 30, 1952, Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
      and refused to affirm or deny Milton S. Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
        membership in the Communist                 Wm. G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
       Party.)
Sulton, J.                                          Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary
Tenner, Jack                                        David Aaron, Jan. 23, 1952.
  Attorney                                          Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
     (Appeared as witness Oct. 1, 1952, Milton              S.   Tyre, Dec. 14, 1951.
       and refused to affirm or deny
       membership in the Communist
        Party.)
Todd, Louise                                        Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary                       Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Tourney, Jim                                        Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party                                   Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Tracy, James                                        Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Railroad organizer
Turrett, Leon                                       David Aaron, Jan. 23,     1952.
  Attorney                                          Marburg Yerkes, Jan.      24, 1952.
    (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952, and refused
      to affirm or deny membership in
      the Communist Party.)
Tyre, Milton S.                                     David Aaron, Jan.      23, 1952.
  Attorney.                                         Albert Herzig, Jan. 23. 1952.
    (Appeared Jan. 25, 1952, and re-                Marburg Yerkes, Jan. 24, 1952.
      fused to affirm or deny his mem-              Wm. G. Israel, Jan. 25, 1952.
      bership in the Communist Party
        under oath.)
Wallace, Jane.     (See Jane Wilson.)               Harold Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
Walsh, Julia
  International Labor Defense Secre-
     tary.
Ward,   Bill                                        Harold Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
  Policeman, Los Angeles.                           Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Ward, Clara                                         Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.                      Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
Weiner, William                                     Max   Silver, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     67

                                            Identified as   Communist by    —
Wilson, Jane                            Harold Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Wilson, John (Jack)                     Harold Ashe, Sept. 17, 1951.
  Newspaperman.                         Mildred Ashe, Sept. 17. 1951.
                                        Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
Winebrenner, Dolph                      Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Newspaperman.                         Charles Judson, Jan. 26, 1952.
                                        Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
                                        Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
Witczak,   Sam                          Dr. Mendell M. Krieger, Sept. 11, 1951.
  Communist Party functionary.
Wood, Barry, (See Jeff Kibre.)
Yates,  Oleta O'Connor.    (See Oleta
  O'Connor.)
Young, Charles                          Mildred Ashe, Sept.     17, 1951.
  Needle trade worker.
Zukas, Branislaus                       Alice Bennett,   May   22, 1952.
  Social Worker, ex-union organizer.


ROLE OF THE COMMUNIST PRESS IN THE COMMUNIST
                 CONSPIRACY
   The committee, during the course of its investigations, particularly
those relating to the Sorge spy case, recognized that the Communist
press had an essential role in the Communist espionage operations.
   The investigation disclosed that in 1936, Max and Grace Granich
were sent to Shanghai, China, by the Communist Party of the United
States to organize, edit, and publish a Communist propaganda organ
which could be circulated throughout the entire East. In furtherance
of instructions of their Communist superiors, Max and Grace Granich
published in Shanghai, from March 1936 until November 1937, the
Voice of China, which spread Communist propaganda throughout
the Far East.
   Because of this obvious Communist propaganda, the Granichs
encountered frequent difficulty with the Chinese and French au-
thorities. As a result, the Granichs were recalled to the United States
by the Communist Party. Efforts of the Communist Party to replace
the Granichs in China were thwarted by the outbreak of war there
in 1937. This, however, was not the end of the Granichs' usefulness
to the Communist conspiracy.
   During the period following the return of the Granichs to the
United States, the Communist Party in the United States found itself
confronted with the problem of avoiding the requirements of the
Foreign Agents' Registration Act. This was during the period when
the Daily Worker, official organ of the Communist Party, was en-
deavoring to conceal its relationship with the Communist Party and
the Communist Party here was itself trying to conceal its true rela-
tionship with the Communist International in Moscow. For this
reason, Grace Granich, upon the direction of the Communist Party,
in March 1941, established the Intercontinent News Service in New
York City.
   Under the operation of Grace Granich, Intercontinent News Service
was a device used by the Communist Party and the Daily Worker
to obtain party information and official directives from the Communist
International in Moscow.
68   ANNUAL REPOKT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN       ACTIVITIES




                                 Identified as   Commum
           ANNUAL REPORT. COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                          69

                                                    Identified as   Communist by   —
Peters, J.
                                                Louis F. Budenz, Jan.    15, 1952.

(also known as Alexander Stevens)
     Communist Party functionary under-
      ground.
Pressman, Lee                                   Louis F. Budenz, Jan.    15, 1952.
                                                Louis F. Budenz, Jan.    15, 1952.
Scherer, Marcel
     UE.
                                                Louis F. Budenz, Jan.    15, 1952.
Stachel, Jack
     Underground Communist Party
      agent.
                                                Elizabeth Bentley, Jan. 15, 1952.
Tenney, Helen
  Soviet agent     in the Office of Strategic
       Services.
                                                Louis F. Budenz, Jan.    15, 1952.
Trachtenberg, Alexander
                                                Louis F. Budenz, Jan.    15, 1952.
Weiner, Robert William
     Communist Party and Daily Worker
       functionary.
                                                Identified as Trotzkyite by
                                                                              —
Buchmah, Alice                                  Morris L. Appelman, Jan.   10, 1952.
 lass, Frank
(J                                              Morris L. Appelman, Jan.   10, 1952.


      COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES AMONG YOUTH GROUPS
  In February, the committee took testimony from Harvey M. Matu-
sow relative to Communist activities among youth. Matusow joined
the Communist Party through the organization, American Youth for
Democracy, this latter organization being the successor to the Young
Communist League.      In justice to this witness, it is only fair at this
point to set forth that, while he joined the Communist Party of his
own volition, in October 1947, he started in 1950 to furnish the Federal
Bureau of Investigation with information on the activities of the
Communist Party and continued to do so until he was expelled in
January        1951.       Incidentally, one of the charges filed against him by
the    Communist Party was that he was acting               as an agent for the
Government.
  Valuable knowledge was gained from the witness on the operation of
a summer camp in up-State New York, known as Camp Unity.         This
camp, which is patronized in the main by teen-age boys and girls, is
operated by the Communist Party even though this fact is kept from
the general public. Testifying with respect to the camp, Matusow
related that the camp personnel was entirely composed of members of
the Communist Party and that he was selected by the Communist Party
to manage the distribution of Communist literature which he sold to
the campers. He stated further that he was instructed by the Com-
munist Party as to the type of literature to project, depending on the
political affiliations of campers or guest speakers.
   All campers at Camp Unity are not members of the Communist
Party, but nearly all have been determined as favorable to the Com-
munist Part} so that a concentration upon these non-Communists
                   7
                       ,


by Communist personnel during a stay usually brings their submis-
sion to Communist Party membership and discipline. In testifying
on the morals of the youth in the Communist movement, Matusow
told of parties where moral standards were completely ignored. He
also told of the use of narcotics by some members of the Communist
Party, but he possessed no knowledge as to whether this use was en-
couraged by the Communist Party.
70   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Matusow testified with respect to the Communist control exercised
by the Communist Party over the Young Progressives of America
and the Labor Youth League, which organization succeeded the
American Youth for Democracy.
  The witness was well equipped to also testify with respect to Com-
munist activities among the entertainment profession, especially those
in the folk-song field. Many of these belong to the Communist-con-
trolled "People's Songs," which recently changed its name to "People's
Artists."
   Associated with the witness as members of the Communist Party
were Joy Silver and Paul Robeson, Jr., who were the leaders of the
American youth in attendance at the Berlin Youth Festival in 1951.
While Robeson, Jr., was denied a passport, all those who did attend
obtained their passports by fraudulent means in that they failed to
list their true destination or purpose of their travel. The witness
       regarding an instance of travel by a Puerto Rican Communist
testified
toEurope. Matusow carried to him instructions from the Communist
Party directing him not to list his true destination or purpose of
travel.
  Following this testimony, the chairman, upon direction of the com-
mittee, introduced legislation intended to tighten up our passport
laws and thereby eliminate fraudulent travel by Communists. This
legislation should be enacted early in the coming Congress.
  In the course of his testimony in Washington, D. C, dealing with
Communist efforts to control youth groups, Harvey M. Matusow
identified the following individuals as members of the Communist
Party     :




Aaronson, Norma, president, local 16,   UOPWA
Abrams, Carl, radio script writer
Aptheker, Herbert, teacher, Jefferson School
Ballinger, Sidney, manager, Jefferson School Book Shop
Baron, Rose, manager, Workers' Book Shop, Communist Party functionary
Bassett, Ted, party organizer
Beach, Ethel (Sandy), placement bureau, UOPWA, New York City
Bernardi, Betty (Mrs. Hesh Bernardi) employed at Camp Unity
                                        ,


Bernardi, Hesh, employed at Camp Unity
Bernstein, Pearl, employed at Camp Unity
Bernstein, Elmer, employed at Camp Unity presently doing musical scores for
                                                ;


  pictures in Hollywood
Bernz, Harold, Jefferson School Bookshop
Berry, Abner, editor, on Daily Worker
Berry, Rosalie (Mrs. Abner Berry), registrar of the Jefferson School
Black. Henry, librarian at Jefferson School
Bonofsky, Philip, writer
Bordofsky, Ben, director, Wholesale Book Corp.
Bradford, William Bill ) Jefferson School Bookshop
                   (     ,


Brown, Mel, employee, Jefferson School Bookshop
Bucholt, Joe, Communist Party functionary organizer, Labor Youth League
                                            ;


Buckingham, Sue
Callen, Diez, student, Columbia University
Callen, Monnie (Mrs. Diez Callen)
Casatta, Mario (Boots), former editor of Peoples' Songs Bulletin and organizer
  of Peoples' Songs of Los Angeles
Claiborne, Adrian (Mrs. Robert Claiborne), People's Songs and Farmer's Union
Claiborne, Robert (Bob)
Coleman, James, editor, New Foundations
Collins, Charles, officer, Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union, New York
Colon, Jesus, IWO, Puerto Rican
Daniels, Roger
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                    71

Darr, John W., Jr. (Rev.)
Davis, Ben, Jr., convicted Communist leader
DeCormier, Betty, employed at Camp Unity. Former wife of Robert DeCormier
DeCormier, Robert, employed at Camp Unity
DeLarco. Fran, member of People's Songs
Diskin, Bernice (wife of Lou Diskin)
Diskin, Lou. Communist Party functionary; former head of New
                                                                York state
  Labor Youth League
Dorfman, Carl, assistant to William Z. Foster
Drucker, Louis, employee of Wholesale Book Corp.
Duncan, Laura, employed at Camp Unity
Durkin, James, president, UOPWU
Engler, Sam, State educational director of Labor Youth League
Finkel, Seymour
Finkelstein, Sidney, instructor at the Jefferson School, author
Fogel, Enid (Mrs. Robert. Fogel)
Fogel, Robert, Communist Party organizer
Foner, Jack, employee of the furrier workers' union
Fox, Jean (Mrs. Kenneth Fox), corresponding secretary for People's Songs
Fox, Kenneth, People's Songs
Foy, Hope, formerly with "the Weavers"
Frankfeld, Phil, head of Communist Party in Baltimore
Freeman, Mort, employee,     Camp   Unity
Gates, Lillian (Mrs. John Gates)
Gay, Harry, West Side regional organizer of the Labor Youth League
Gibson, Jackie, full-time employee of Communist Party
Gilbert, Ronnie (woman) member of People's Songs and "the Weavers"
                         ,



Gold, Ben, president, furrier workers union
Goldway, Dave, director, Jefferson School
Goldway, Tillie (Mrs. Dave Goldway), teacher
Goodelman, Aaron J., teacher, Jefferson School
Gordon, Hallie Wood, member, People's Songs
Gottlieb, Vicki, employee, Camp Unity
Green, Adolph, member of People's Songs
Greenspan, Mrs. Jack
Greenspan, Jack, organizer, United Office and Professional Workers Union
Grennel, Horace, faculty, Jefferson School
Guthrie, Woodie, member, People's Songs
Halpern, Liz
Hammett, Dashiell, author
Hardy, Edward, Communist Party organizer, State of Texas
Haufricht, Betty (Mrs. Herbert), organizer, Communist Party
Haufricht, Herbert, member of People's Artists
Hays, Lee, member, "the Weavers"
Hellerman, Freddie, member of People's Songs
Hillie, Wally, official of People's Songs
Hunton, W. A. (Alpheus), director or vice chairman of Council on African Affairs
Huston, Cisco, recording artist for Young People's Records
Hutchinson, James, teacher-conductor instructor, Jefferson School
                                        ;


Ireland, Richard
Irwin, Silber, executive director of People's Songs, music section organizer for
   the Communist Party
Jacobson, Leonard, official of People's Songs
Jaffe, Joe, employee, Camp Unity
James, Oscar, worked full time at Workers Book Shop in New York. Communist
   Party organizer.
Jaroslow, Jerry, employee, Camp Unity
Jenks, Clint, regional organizer for the Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers Union
Kelber, Harry, employed, Trade Union Service
Kewskin, Herb
Kewskin, Yale
Klein, Harry, member of People's Songs
Kogel, Lenny, employed at'Camp Unity
Kramer, Aaron, poet, employee UOPWA
Kramer, Terry, employee, People's Songs, Inc.
Kruckman, Herbert,   art teacher, Jefferson School
72        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                 ACTIVITIES

Krushenick, Johnny (also    known as Johnny Rush), editorial group, People's
  Songs
Landauer, Sam, American Newspaper Guild, Local 3, New York City
Lawrence, Vicki
Lawson, Elizabeth, teacher, Jefferson School
Lee, York ( may be Lee York )
Lefkowitz, Irving (Lefty)
Lefkowitz, Laura (Mrs. Irving)
Lieberman, Ernie, member of People's Artists
Leibowitz, Bob, student, City College, New York City
Lippman, Bernie
Litch,    Benna
Lowenfield, Walter, editor, Philadelphia edition of Daily     Worker
McGhee, Browning, member People's Songs, Inc.
Mclntyre, Harry
McRay, Otis, Communist Party organizer
McRay,      Phillis,   employed at   Camp Unity
   (Mrs. Otis McRay)
Maggusu, Toni, one-time director of People's Artists
Miirtel, Harry, teacher at Jefferson School.
 Mason, Dolly, office employee at Jefferson School
Max, Allen, teacher, Jefferson School, former city editor of Daily Worker
Monas, Ray, employed at Camp Unity
Mooney, Helen (sister of Irwin Silber)
Morford, Rev. Richard
Nadler, Al, member of People's Songs
Nadler, Shirley (also known as Lydia Edwards), member of People's Songs
Nesi, James, teacher, Jefferson School
Nesi, Ruth (Mrs. James) employed, Wholesale Book Corp. and Jefferson School
                              ,


Nessolroth, Raoul, full-time employee of Communist Party
Nessolroth, Vicky (Mrs. Raoul)
Newirth, Bob, University of Chicago
Norman, Winifred, officer, Local 1G,      UOPWA
Ostrowsky, Clara, assistant librarian at Jefferson School
Paley, Tom, American Folksay Group, People's Songs
Parent, Ernie, Communist Party organizer
Pascoff, Ben, teacher, Jefferson School
Patterson. William L., national executive secretary of the Civil Rights Congress
Peladori, Janice (Mrs. Neal Peladori)
Peladori, Neal, official of People's Songs
Perry, Carrie, full-time employee of the New York County Communist Party
Phiffer, Carol
Phillips,   Furman
Plever,   Gerb
Rheinfeld. Irene (Mrs. Milton Rheinfeld)
Rheinf eld, Milton (Meshie)
Rivington. Ann, worked on Harlem edition of Sunday Worker
Robeson, Marilyn (Mrs. Paul, Jr.), employed at Camp Unity
Robeson, Paul, Jr.
Robinson. Earl, composer
Rodriguez, Helen
Rubenstein, Nettie, principal, Robert Louis Stevenson School, New York City
Sacco, Joe, employed, Grey Advertising Agency in 1949
Sacco, Nola (Mrs. Joe Sacco)
Saha, Art, East Side organizer, LYL.
Sanders, Betty, official of People's Songs
Sax, Milton
Schappes, Morris
Schappes, Sonia (Mrs. Morris U. Schappes), Manager, Book Fair
Schlanger,     Bob
Schwendinger, Hy, editorial board, People's Songs, Inc.
Seeger, Pete,  official, People's Songs, Inc.
Selsam, Howard, director, Jefferson School        — teacher
Selterman, Joe
Sharf, Lee
Sheik, Jules
Siegel, Gloria
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                 ACTIVITIES      73

Silber, Irvin, executive director of People's Songs, Inc., also
                                                                  known   as People's
  Artists
Sillen,   Samuel, writer for International Publishers
Smith,    Ferdinand C, officer of National Maritime Union
Smith.   Jessica, writer
Speed,  Mrs. (mother of Jane Speed), ran Communist Bookshop in Birmingham
Speed,  Jane (Mrs. Caesar Andrean Ingleas), Communist Party organizer
Stpiier, Ceorge, labor specialist, Jefferson School
Steck, Robert (Bob), in charge of hiring of personnel at Camp Unity
Steck. Jo (Mrs. Robert Steck), employed at Camp Unity
Steinberg, Sam
Sufferin, Herb, employed at Camp Unity
Talkington, Lester, president, Local 21, ULPA
Tarrentola, Joe, Communist Party organizer
Tarrentola, Selma (Mrs. Joe Tarrentola)
Thomas, Everett (Teak)
Torg, Artie
Turetsky, Murray
Turetsky, Tzvia (Mrs. Murray)
Vila. William, member, Labor Youth League
Vincent, Craig
Vincent, Jennie Wells (former wife of Harry Wells, now wife of Craig Vincent)
Walkeustein, Jack
Ward, Roosevelt, Jr., Communist Party organizer
Weinstock, John, employed at Camp Unity
Weinstock. Johnnie, member, Labor Youth League
Wells. Dr. Harry (also known as Dan Wells), teacher of philosophy at Jefferson
   School
Wells, Harry K. (alias Dan Wells), teacher at Jefferson School
Wheeler, Irene
Wilkerson, Doxey
Williamson. Mel, organizational secretary, Labor Youth League
Winston, Leon, teacher
Wofsy, Leon, national director of LYL
Wolfe, Bob, song writer
Wolff, Milton, representative CRC
Wood. Inez (Mrs. Randy Wood), full-time employee of district 65, Distribu-
  tive Workers Union
Wood, Randy, active in People's Artists
Yellen. Dave, now serving time in    New York   State penal institution
York, Lee.   {See Lee, York.)

                          DR.   EDWARD U. CONDON
  Dr. Edward U. Condon was appointed director of the National
Bureau of Standards in November 1945. This appointment was made
even though it was known at that time by the executive branch of
Government that Dr. Condon had not been permitted to visit Soviet
Russia and that a passport issued by the State Department had been
revoked upon the request of intelligence authorities.
   Dr. Condon had, early in the development of nuclear fission, been
offered a position on the atomic bomb project at Los Alamos, N. Mex.
After a short while, Dr. Condon rejected that appointment voicing his
distain for the security regulations which were necessary at Los
Alamos.
  During the course of its investigations to ascertain the extent and
success of Soviet espionage activities relating to the atom bomb, the
committee w as amazed at the numerous instances in which it was dis-
                 T



closed that Dr. Condon was acquainted with known and suspected
espionage agents. The committee did not, nor does it now, possess
information that Dr. Condon was a Communist or committed any
74     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

act of espionage.    However, because of his associates and disdain
for security regulations the committee recognized his vulnerability in
any post of security. For this reason the committee issued a report
in 1948 setting forth the information it possessed concerning Dr.
Condon's associations. It was hoped that Dr. Condon would volun-
tarily resign but if he did not it should serve as a warning to Dr.
Condon as well as security officers that his associations disqualified
him from access to classified material.
   Dr. Condon did not resign but rather attempted to justify his as-
sociations and not only claimed his lack of knowledge of any espionage
activities on the part of these people, but in some instances went so
far as to voice confidence in their complete honesty, notwithstanding
unshaken testimony of others, even though he made no inquiry as to
the veracity of these charges.
  Dr. Condon adopted the attitude that because he had not appeared
before the committee he had been maligned when the report was
issued, although he did not deny his association with these known
and suspected Soviet espionage agents, but claimed that his associa-
tions with them were perfectly normal and that he had not engaged in
espionage with them.
   In 1952, a Member of Congress, in prefacing a statement on the
floor of Congress, charged the committee with failure to hear Dr.
Condon. As a result the committee voted to invite Dr. Condon to
appear before it. Dr. Condon declined the invitation and the com-
mittee voted to subpena him.
  Dr. Condon was heard on September 5, 1952, at which time he
reiterated his lack of knowledge of the espionage activities of the
persons the committee had named as having associated with him, and
denied having ever been a Communist.
  Dr. Condon's appearance, however, served to confirm the com-
mittee's belief that because of his propensity for associating with
persons disloyal or of questionable loyalty and his contempt for
necessary security regulations, that he is not qualified for acceptability
to   any security position.

     METHODS OF COMMUNIST INFILTRATION                      IN   THE
            UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
     The committee has long been puzzled   at the relative ease with which
individuals   who have been   identified as members of the Communist
Party have gained employment in the United States Government.
  Through the records of hearings before the committee in the past,
there has been exposure of Communist Party cells and persons en-
gaged in Soviet espionage within various agencies of the executive
branch of the Government. With this in mind, the committee has
commenced an investigation to ascertain the methods which were
used in securing employment for these Communists and to determine
how it was possible for these Communists to move from one agency
to another with apparent ease.
  The committee definitely believes that there is a pattern being fol-
lowed through which these persons secured employment and transfers
and it is intensifying its efforts to ascertain the key that will explain
this Communist operation.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                      75

  THE ARMY SIGNAL CORPS INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
  The Army Signal Corps Intelligence Agency is one of the most
"sensitive" groups in the field of intelligence activities in Washington.
Composed of approximately 90 civilian employees and 21 military
personnel, it is the receiving center for intelligence reports from
world-wide sources, chiefly concerning telecommunications infor-
mation needed by American intelligence agencies. Its files contain
such information, stored in chronological fashion, and are used as
the basis of reports. It also collects reports on radar stations, tele-
phonic and telegraphic communications vital to the national defense.
  The attention of the committee was called to alleged subversive
conditions in this top-secret Agency through a remarkable "petition
to Congress" signed by 10 Agency employees.             The petition was
signed by the following          :



      Lt. Col. Ollie J. Allen, executive officer
      Capt. Robert M. Herron, Chief of Contacts Branch
      Lt. Harry Donohue, Chief, Strategic Branch
      Edwin Y. Webb, Jr.
      Robert L. Stilmar, Chief, Scientific Branch
      Kurt G. Happe, Chief, Area II
      Stephen J. Roberts, Chief, Area IV
      Mrs. Doris C. Swain, secretary
       William H. Thompson
       Lionel Hirschhorn
  The petition contained a long recitation of incidents involving
other Agency employees which indicated, in the opinion of the signers,
the presence of security risks in the Agency.
  We the   undersigned   —
the petition stated—
respectfully petition the Congress of the United States to investigate conditions
of 2 years' duration in and surrounding the Signal Corps Intelligence Agency,
and execute the necessary corrective measures to remove all subversive elements
and security risks therefrom, thereby improving the security of the United
States.

   Inquiry developed that the charges preferred by the 10 petitioners
had been under investigation by military     intelligence for more than
a year before they were submitted to Congress. Seven civilian em-
ployees of the Agency had been accused. The complete files on these
cases were made available through the cooperation of Maj. Gen. A. R.
Boiling, Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2. These files indicated that
little tangible evidence, indicative of espionage or subversive activi-

ties, had been developed by the military investigation.      The inves-
tigation did disclose an unrest, lack of morale, and bickering between
factions unseemly in an intelligence group of this importance.
   The very fact that ten employees, three of them in officers' uni-
forms, saw fit to demand a congressional investigation of conditions in
their agency indicated a state of affairs inimical to security.
  Coupled with this unsatisfactory state of affairs was the apparent
disappearance of a number of secret documents. An official inven-
tory by a security officer of the agency revealed "no record" for some
57 reports bearing the "top secret" label.
  Subsequent checking resulted in another security officer report that
"certificates of destruction" or the    documents themselves had been        lo-
     H. Kept. 2516, 82-2     6
76     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN         ACTIVITIES

cated by a more thorough search. Pentagon officials contended that
the first inventory had been "inadequate."
  In view of regulations which insist that the custodianship of all
top-secret reports shall be recorded at all times, the committee cannot
minimize the seriousness of a condition which permitted the where-
abouts of even a single such document to be unrecorded at any time.
The inescapable conclusion is that lax security prevailed in the
Agency.
  An   intensive investigation by the committee staff added no sub-
stantial evidence to that gathered by Army investigators concerning
the accused employees. Several of those accused were also given full
held investigations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and no de-
rogatory information, except for the charges of their fellow em-
ployees, was uncovered.
  Admission of Communist sympathies was made by one employee
who left the Agency. No corroborating evidence was obtained con-
cerning numerous allegations by the complaining employees concern-
ing conversations in which certain employees talked in a vein indi-
cating  procommunism in the opinion of the complainants.
  The committee is assured that tight security precautions have been
established in the Agency which has been entirely reorganized as a
result of the military and congressional investigation.
  The    incident emphasizes the value of a standing congressional com-
mittee to which Government employees may appeal when they feel,
for one reason or another, that conditions exist which need correc-
tion. The unusual petition to Congress undoubtedly alerted the mil-
itary to strengthen security in the agency and to remedy conditions
which were not in the best interests of the national defense.
   The committee has nothing but the highest praise for the 10 em-
ployees, 3 of them, in uniform, who sought the aid of Congress. All
are responsible citizens who became alarmed by conditions which
they regarded as a menace to national security. All have splendid mil-
itary and Government records which they knew they might be im-
periling by airing charges which could not please those in high au-
thority. All were motivated by an intense patriotism worthy of emu-
lation   by   all in   Government employ.

     REVIEW OF THE METHODIST FEDERATION FOR
                              SOCIAL ACTION
  The committee, during the past, has received requests from Members
of Congress concerning the Methodist Federation for Social Action
and its predecessor, the Methodist Federation for Social Service, in
such volume that it became necessary to publish a careful review of
available information dealing w ith these organizations.
                                     r



  The committee recognizes that these organizations do not represent
the Methodist Church or its members and in fact these organizations
have been repudiated by outstanding clergymen and laymen of the
Methodist Church. The committee is also aware that during the last
convention of the Methodist Church, further and more substantial
steps were taken to disavow any official connections with the Methodist
Federation for Social Action.
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN          ACTIVITIES    77

             FILES    AND KEFEREXCE SERVICE
   The Hies of the committee should not be thought of as files in the
ordinary sense which can be closed out and stored or destroyed peri-
odic-ally and forgotten but rather as
                                        a constantly growing, live col-
                              —
lect ion'of specialized material  a collection of books and pamphlets,
periodicals and leaflets, letterheads, handbills,
                                                   and other documents
issued by or descriptive of subversive organizations and activities or
serving as contributory, background material
                                                 to the subject.   The
collection, the care and handling of that collection, and the various
types of reference service furnished might better be described as those
of a special library.
  Due both to the type of work of this committee and to the nature
of the subject matter with  which it is concerned, very old documents
and pamphlets and books must be handled constantly and kept as
readily accessible as the newer material which is constantly being
added. Books and pamphlets must be cataloged, periodical and cir-
culation records kept, and reference service furnished as in any
library. In addition, our own hearings and reports must be indexed
and a large volume of documents and clippings must be processed
properly and incorporated into the collection. This calls for careful
examination of each piece of material, correct classification of it to
place it with other information on the same subject, cross-referencing
to show additional subjects covered, and, in most cases, indexing to
even the smallest details which may later provide the necessary and
immediate answers to questions which arise. Even the proper hous-
ing of such a collection presents problems caused both by its inherent
nature and volume and by serious limitations of space and the suit-
able type of equipment.
  However, in 1952, there have been incorporated into an already
voluminous collection 2,827 pages of printed hearings and reports of
this committee, about 200 books and pamphlets, 936 issues of news-
papers and magazines, and 600 to 700 documents of other kinds. The
number of clippings cannot even be estimated.
  The reference service furnished during the vear has shown a steadv
increase, reflecting a greater growth in the amount of information
requested and furnished than in the actual number of separate requests
made. Records show that well over 3,600 inquiries involving about
9.500 individuals and approximately 2,000 organizations were an-
swered in 1952, an increase of about 300 in number of requests, 1,800
in number of individual names involved, with the number of organiza-
tions concerned remaining the same.      The figures cannot show, how-
ever, that answers in most instances were naturally longer because
more information had been accumulated and made available for use
during the year, nor can numbers reveal the type and quality of the
reference service.
   Since the files of the committee are not open for personal consulta-
tion by anyone other than the committee's own employees and the
designated representatives of the executive branch of the Government,
a very specialized reference service is furnished the Members of Con-
gress.  Written requests are preferred in the interest of accuracy,
but telephone inquiries from Members' offices are also accepted daily.
These inquiries are handled by trained staff members who consult all
78      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN           ACTIVITIES

indexes and    files for all available information on the subject or sub-
jects   under consideration.    They then review, compile, and report the
 pertinent information as it appears in the committee's own public
 hearings and reports and public documents contained in the commit-
 tee's files. A  total of 1,440 written reports were sent to Members of
 Congress in 1952, and a conservative estimate of the number of pages
 of such written memoranda would run over 10,000. This does not
 include written replies in cases where no information was found on
the subject of the request.
    Answers are also made by telephone in reply to verbal inquiries,
 from Members of Congress, where there is no information on the sub-
 ject to report, where only a brief answer or small amount of informa-
 tion is needed, or in some few cases where extreme urgency demands it,
usually followed by a written report. Brevity of answer, however,
 does not mean that less research work or knowledge of our subject
matter is required than in the written reply. About 1,000 inquiries
 from Members of Congress were answered verbally in 1952.
   As the number and range of the committee's investigations and hear-
ings increased during the year, so has the demand for information
from the committee's own staff members increased. The variety of
information and the type of answers needed by them may be guessed
from the description of the hearings and investigations described in
other sections of this report. Inquiries from staff members were
answered in varying manners, extending from the verification of a
single point or the loan of a single document to the writing of a
lengthy report or the loan of hundreds of documents for consultation
in connection with investigations or use as exhibits in hearings before
the committee.
  A   certain amount of reference service has also been furnished this
year in answering some requests made by private individuals who
showed a sincere and genuine need for information of the type which
is available here.    Answers to such inquiries were necessarily greatly
restricted both as to number and as to length of answer because our
staff is not large enough to supply any considerable service of this kind.
   Still another service has been furnished by the files section to the
executive branch of the Government whose agents must make a check
of the committee's files under provisions of the President's Executive
Order No. 9835 pertaining to the loyalty of Government employees.
Accordingly, arrangements have been made to give the designated
representatives of the various agencies access to all the information
in our files.   While these men have made their own checks and have
compiled whatever information they found, it has still been necessary
for the staff of this section to answer innumerable questions as to our
records and to withdraw from files a great amount of documentary
material for their examination.
  In 1952, these agents made 6,260 visits to the committee's files section,
about the same as last year, but recorded that they had checked the
names of almost 840,000 individuals through our records. This repre-
sents an increase of over 80,000 in names checked and probably indi-
cates longer visits on the part of persons not already assigned by their
agencies to full-time checking of our records. It has placed an addi-
tional   burden upon our records, our working space and   staff,   but shows
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                               79

an additional interest in, and use of, the information assembled here.
  In conclusion, it is gratifying to report at the end of the year 1952
that the valuable and, in some instances, irreplacable collection of
material in the committee's files has not only been preserved and
augmented but has been used as a source of vital information to a
greater extent than in any previous year.

                                 PUBLICATIONS
   The work that has been done in the past by the committee in the
dissemination of literature exposing the workings of the Communist
Party is reflected in the increase of requests for committee publica-
tions during the year 1952.   One after another, a series of events have
occurred on both national and international scenes which could very
easily have been anticipated years ago by a study of the pattern of
Communist tactics which have been revealed by hearings and reports
of the committee at least since 1938.
   From the coup d'etat in Prague to the crossing of the thirty-eighth
parallel in Korea, with the prolonged fighting that has ensued in that
area, many things have happened to demonstrate the self-avowed
plans for world conquest by the Soviet Union. That these things
have intensified the desire of thousands of individuals to know more
about this Communist conspiracy in order to combat it in this country
is evident from the letters received by the committee asking for all
available information on the subject.
   One of the principal functions of the publications section of the
committee staff is supplying material requested by congressional offices
and governmental agencies. These requests in 1952 have exceeded
those for any other year and have been for information or publica-
tions dealing with Communist infiltration into every field which has
been exposed by the committee. These include the Hollywood motion-
picture industry, professional groups, labor unions, farming, the press,
youth groups, and our own Government.
  Students and faculty members of schools and colleges have sought
information for use in classes which are being conducted on the Com-
munist menace, and, according to their letters, a great deal of com-
mittee material is used for reference purposes in these studies. We
have endeavored to supply these publications in as many cases as
possible, even though our supply is very limited.
  It is gratifying to see the concerted effort on the part of the major
labor organizations in preventing Communists who have been highly
trained in methods of infiltrating them and gaining control from
accomplishing their purposes. Printed copies of the many hearings
which the committee has conducted in this field have been in great
demand by numerous trade-unionists and union offices.
  It has been possible for the committee staff to fill requests for almost
a half-million of these publications during the year 1952. 1
  Many letters requesting this material indicate that the publications,
when received, would be circulated among a number of persons, thus
increasing the individual value of each one.

  1 In addition to these, the committee has also distributed thousands of
                                                                          copies of publica-
tions printed  in previous years, as well as documents released by other congressional
committees and Government agencies.
80       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Types of the many thousands of                             letters received   weekly by the com-
mittee    may be seen in the following                   :




     *******
                                                Parks Air Force Base,     Calif.,   November     7,   1952.
  Dear   Sirs   I am presently in the process of preparing a course of instruction
                  :


in security for air police students and would appreciate any literature of an
unclassified nature that you might have in this category.




     *******
                                              San Jose, Calif., October 2k, 1952.
  Gentlemen      Thank you so much for sending us the copies of 100 Things You
                          :


Should Know About Communism. We have had many calls for the book and
know that it will help many of our people to realize the hold communism can get.




     *******
  Gentlemen
Communism


  Gentlemen
                          :




                          :
                              May we have
                  for use in this school?




                               We
                                                 Jersey City, N. J., November 2%, 1952.
                                     400 copies of 100 Things You Should Know About



                                     University of       November 25, 1952.
                    should very much appreciate having for this library a copy
of the Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications (and appendix) re-
                                                                                ,




vised    May   14, 1951.


                                                                                 Dr.
                                                           Gloucester, Mass., November 24, 1952.
  Dear     Sirs   :           Please send   me   any available pamphlets that you have on com-
munism.
     *                         *            *           *             *              *                 *

                                             Chicago, III., November 25, 1952.
  Dear Sirs In the interest of the Railroad Retirement Board and its staff, the
                  :




library is writing to request a copy of your publications, Communist Activities
Among Professional Groups in Los Angeles Area, Part 1 Communism in Detroit  ;


Area, Part 1 Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion Picture Industry,
                      ;


Parts 6-8.

  Committee Publications for the Second Session of the Eighty-second
                                                  Congress, 1952
Review of the Methodist Federation for Social Action
Role of the Communist Press in the Communist Conspiracy
Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry Part 7                       —
Communist Activities Among Professional Groups in Los Angeles Area Part 1                        —
Communism in the Detroit Area Part 1             —
Communism in the Detroit Area Part 2             —
Communist Activities Among Youth Groups
Methods of Communist Infiltration in the United States Government
Communist Infiltration of the Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry Part 8                   —
Communist Activities Among Professional Groups in the Los Angeles Area                                     —
  Part 2
Testimony of Lynne L. Prout
Communist Activities in Chicago Part 1            —
Communist Activities in Chicago Part 2            —
Testimony of Dr. Edward U. Condon
Communist Activities Among Professional Groups in the Los Angeles Area                                     —
  Part 3
Communist Activities Among Professional Groups in the Los Angeles Area                                     —
  Part 4
Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry Part 9                   —
Testimony of General Walter Bedell Smith
Communism in the Philadelphia Area
Communist Infiltration of the Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry Part 10                      —
Annual Report of the Committee on Un-American Activities for 1952
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                        81

                         RECOMMENDATIONS
  The committee, on the basis of investigations and hearings, has from
time to time made certain recommendations to the Congress for the
enactment of legislation which it feels is necessary to combat sub-
version.
   The Internal Security Act of 1950 resulted directly from hearings
conducted before this committee and many of the recommendations
dealing with security against subversive aliens have been incorporated
in the McCarran- Walter immigration bill.     Certain other of the rec-
ommendations have been enacted by resolutions of various Members
of Congress and other recommendations have been acted upon by the
executive branch of the Government. It is regrettable, however, that
in numerous instances recommendations that the committee has made
which would serve as a security safeguard against subversive activities
in the United States have not yet been enacted into law.
   In order that the Congress and the American people might have an
understanding of the recommendations that have been made by the
committee in the past, there is being included a complete list of those
that have been made by the committee since the first session of the
Seventy-sixth Congress.
  Recommendations contained in House Report No.                  2,   Seventy-sixth
Congress, first session, dated January 3, 1939      :




   Although this committee has worked continuously since the adjournment of
Congress and has done everything within its power to get as many facts as
possible to the people, we have only skimmed the surface. We were able only
to hold brief hearings in New York and Detroit. We were urged to conduct hear-
ings in many other cities, such as Chicago, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Minneap-
olis, Milwaukee, Birmingham, Atlanta, New Orleans, San Antonio, Los Angeles,
San Francisco, Seattle, and Portland, but due to limited time and funds we were
unable to comply with these requests. We had hoped and planned to conduct
extensive hearings on the west coast because the evidence before the committee
indicates that this area ranks first in the extent of un-American activities and
propaganda. We received numerous letters from citizens and public officials in
the west-coast area urging us to hold hearings there. We have approximately
150 witnesses on the west coast that should have been heard. However, due
to a lack of funds, we were unable to devote any extensive consideration to
west-coast activities of Communist, Nazi, and Fascist groups. The situation is
so serious on the west coast that it would require G months of preparatory in-
vestigation before a committee would be ready to conduct hearings, and it is
probable that hearings would last 3 or 4 months.
   Not only were we unable to investigate un-American activities and propaganda
in many important sections of the country but, as a matter of fact, we found it
                                            ;


impossible to investigate many of the important phases of un-American activi-
ties.  Even as to those that we did investigate, we only scratched the surface.
   In view of the foregoing, we do not think that the investigation has proceeded
far enough to justify us in recommending legislation to Congress. We need and
can secure much more information not only from sections of the country that
we have investigated but also from the larger areas that we have not even
touched before recommending legislation to Congress. Even after we are sup-
plied with full and complete information and facts, several months of considera-
tion must be devoted to the question of legislation.     This will require expert
assistance and thorough research.

   Legislative recommendations contained in Report No. 1, Seventy-
seventh Congress, first session, dated January 3, 1941           :




  The committee realizes the difficulty of reaching and curbing certain phases
of un-American and subversive propaganda and activities through legislative
action.   In view of our findings and the origin of these activities, we submit the
following recommendations as a partial legislative program   :


  The enactment of legislation to bring about the immediate mandatory deporta-
tion of alien spies and saboteurs.
82    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                    ACTIVITIES

  The mandatory deportation of aliens who advocate any basic change in the
form of our Government.
  The enactment of legislation requiring that all employees and officials of our
Federal Government be American citizens.
  Withhold all Federal financial support from any educational institution which
permits members of its faculty to advocate communism, fascism, or nazism as
a substitute for our form of Government to the student body of these educa-
tional institutions. (This particular recommendation is not concurred in by Mr.
Voorhis, not because of disagreement with the principle involved but on the ground
that the administration of such an act is impossible without risking grave in-
justice being done to people seeking merely to explain the principles involved
in totalitarian philosophy.)
  The enactment of legislation to outlaw every political organization which is
shown to be under the control of a foreign government. As long as these organi-
zations have a legal status in the United States, it will be difficult for any agency
of the Government to deal with them.     We  now know that they furnish the legal
apparatus for the operations of saboteurs, and the window dressing for espionage.
The committee believes that legislation can be worked out to outlaw such organi-
zations, and that this will in no sense constitute a violation of the Bill of Rights,
since such legislation would only affect organizations controlled or directed by
foreign countries.
  The enactment of legislation to stop all immigration from foreign countries
that refuse to accept the return of their nationals found under American law
to be deportable from this country. This legislation is made necessary by the
fact that some foreign governments have refused to accept their own citizens
who have been deported by the United States Government.
  As previously stated in the body of the report, the committee recommends
the passage of added legislation to place restrictions on the distribution of totali-
tarian propaganda, when that distribution involves any cost to the American tax-
payers, and when such propaganda emanates and is shipped from foreign
sources.
  We recommend that the statutory period during which citizenship papers can
be revoked under existing law be extended to at least 10 years.
  Due to the fact that the committee has discovered that many members of
foreign-controlled organizations have traveled on American passports which
have been fraudulently obtained, the committee feels that the statute of limita-
tions should be extended from 3 to 7 years. This is made necessary because of
the unusual difficulty in apprehending those who resort to the use of fraudulent
passports within the period of 3 years.
   Recommendations contained in House Report No. 1, Seventy-
seventh Congress, first session, dated January 3, 1941           :




   The committee recommends as a policy that employment in national-defense
industries or the Government service be denied to any person who has been and
is now active in any political organization which is found to be under the control
and guidance of a foreign government.
   Recommendations contained in House Report No. 2742, Seventy-
ninth Congress, second session, dated January 2, 1947                :




  That the Congress create an independent commission with authority to investi-
gate and to order the discharge of any employee or official of the Federal
Government whose loyalty to the United States is found to be in doubt.
  That the Department of State and the Department of Justice be required by
law to publicize every 6 months the names and identity of all agents of any
foreign governments who are in the United States for either diplomatic, com-
mercial, or other purposes.
   That the Department of Justice be required by law to establish within the
Department a special division devoted to the prosecution of subversive elements
now operating in the United States.
   That the Attorney General be instructed by a proper resolution of the House
to report to the House the number of prosecutions instituted under the Voorhis
Act and the McCormack Alien Registration Act, and to advise the Congress if
new legislation is necessary to insure the security of this country.
   That legislation should be enacted that would restrict Federal employment
to citizens of the United States and that only citizens be permitted to hold
office in any labor union subject to Federal laws.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                   ACTIVITIES      83

   That legislation be enacted requiring that all alien Communists and other
subversive aliens be promptly deported and that the Immigration Service main-
tain a stringent screening process to restrain the present influx of aliens into
the United States and to determine whether their political background is inimi-
cal to the best interests of the United States Government.
   Legislation should be enacted to restrict the benefits of certain tax-exemption
privileges now extended to a number of Communist fronts posing as educational,
charitable, and relief organizations.
  The following is a quotation from committee Report No. 1996, Union Calendar
No. 588, Seventv-ninth Congress, second session, submitted by Chairman John S.
Wood, May 10, 1946 :
  "The investigative staff of your committee has conducted an extensive investi-
gation into the various sources of financial aid to organizations engaged in the
dissemination of propaganda in the United States. The heart of propaganda
activities is, by necessity, sustained with money.        Reasonable regulation of
tax exemptions and proper enforcement of such regulations would immediately
restrain to a large extent the vicious attacks now being made upon our constitu-
tional form of government."
  That the House request, by proper resolution, a report from the Postmaster
General of the United States, setting forth the number of Embassies or foreign
agencies now enjoying second-class mailing privileges and also specifically iden-
tifying such agencies where the respective foreign governments do not accord
to our Embassies, Ministers, and other United States officials equal mailing
privileges in those countries, and that proper legislation be enacted by Congress
limiting the use of second-class mailing privileges to such Embassies and agencies
of those foreign governments which extend reciprocal privileges to officials of
the United States Government.
   That legislation be enacted forbidding the use of the United States mails
under second-class mailing privileges to any and all newspapers and periodicals
printed in any language other than English, which do not carry a full English
translation, in parallel columns next to the foreign-language context.
   That legislation be enacted denying the use of second-class mailing privileges
to any groups of persons or organizations engaged in the publication, distribution,
or promotion of subversive or un-American propaganda.
   For many years, various organizations in the United States have permitted
membership under an alias or an assumed name, and have even gone so far as
to permit concealed or secret membership.      It is recommended that the Congress
enact legislation designed to prohibit membership in any organization using
the United States mails or subject to Federal laws, by persons using an alias
or assumed name. Such legislation should also include a provision which would
clearly ban concealed or secret memberships in any such organizations as de-
scribed above. An exemption should be made for properly authorized law-
enforcement officers in the conduct of their investigations.
  Recommendations contained in the annual report of the committee
to theHouse of Representatives, Eightieth Congress, second session,
dated December 31, 1948      :



   In its annual report of January 3, 1940, the Special Committee on Un-Ameri-
can Activities characterized the Communist Party of the United States not as a
true political party but as a conspiracy in behalf of the Soviet Union. Our in-
vestigations and hearings during the past 2 years have borne out this conclusion
in the most startling fashion.   The evidence now before us establishes beyond a
doubt that espionage and treasonable activity against these United States is,
in fact, the primary purpose of the organization.  We are convinced that all other
outward activity and propaganda of the Communist Party, its front organiza-
tions, and controlled unions, serve merely to—
   Enlist new recruits for the primary underground espionage apparatus.
   Lend an idealistic camouflage to this sinister conspiratorial apparatus.
   Act as its protective defense mechanism.
   Provide it with funds and other resources.
   The enacting of legislation to cope with this problem is a task confronting the
incoming Congress.
   We recommend the early passage of legislation modeled substantially after
the so-called Mundt-Nixon bill, which passed the House last year by a roll-call
vote of 319 to 56.
84    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  In addition, we recommend that the espionage laws of the United States be
substantially strengthened by early laws of the new Congress, with special
attention to means for returning aliens to other countries upon conviction for
crimes against the United States. We also recommend that the penalties for
those properly cited for contempt of Congress be increased to a minimum of 5
years in prison and a $5,000 fine.
  We further suggest that our immigration laws and passport-visa regulations
be carefully studied to determine what changes are necessary to prevent disloyal
elements from entering this country and remaining here.
  Recommendations contained in the annual report of the committee
to theHouse of Representatives, Eighty-first Congress, first session,
for the year 1949, dated     March   15,   1950   :




  Looking back upon 4 years' experience as a standing committee of the House
of Representativesand almost 7 years as a special committee, we feel more
than ever impressed with the insidiousness and vastness of the ramifications
of the Communist movement and the urgent necessity for unflagging efforts
to expose and curb its machinations.   To further the effectiveness of these
investigations and to curb the subversive activities of the Communist Party,
United States of America, its agents and its dupes, the committee recommends
the following action by the incoming House of Representatives :



  The  statute of limitations in espionage cases must be amended. Under our
present laws we have found that a long list of Communist operatives who have
committed acts of espionage and treachery in the interest of a foreign power
have remained immune to punishment due to the present form of the statute of
limitations.
                               —
  The nature of modern war the fact that nations find themselves confronted
                                                      —
nowadays with undeclared but actual warfare makes it necessary that the
legal definition of treason and the penalties attached thereto be broadened to
cover a period like the present cold war.
  Experience during the past 5 years has demonstrated that the embassies of
Communist-dominated countries constitute a focal point of Communist es-
pionage and propaganda. Such activity should be limited by proper safeguards
sternly enforced.
  H. R. 3903, providing safeguards against the employment of subversive indi-
viduals in defense plants, should be adopted.
  H. R. 10, providing for the supervision and detention of undeportable aliens,
should be enacted into law in order to deal with thousands of alien Communists
refused acceptance by the country of their birth.
  It would be advantageous to enact legislation creating a presumption of law
that a committee quorum, once established, continues to exist.
  Effective action against the well-coordinated, interlocking Communist net-
work requires the utmost teamwork among branches of the Government. Petty
rivalry or separatism can only work to the advantage of the Communists. A
small bit of information in the hands of one agency may well be the missing link
of an entire chain of evidence in the hands of another agency. Hence, the com-
mittee recommends the fullest cooperation between legislative and executive
arms of the Government in the matter of dealing with subversive activities.
Modification of the Executive order in loyalty and investigative cases is recom-
mended for consideration.
  In a number of cases we have found that subversive elements will submit in-
formation to one arm of the Government when it suits their purpose and will
withhold it from another. Communist trade-unionists will deny their affiliations
before the National Labor Relations Board and refuse to affirm or deny them be-
fore a congressional committee. They will deny them in filling out form 57 in
applying for Federal employment and refuse to affirm or deny such affiliations
before this committee. It is highly necessary that the Department of Justice
take effective action against those who would make a tragic joke of law enforce-
ment. Here, again, there is room for maximum cooperation between the legisla-
tive and executive arms of Government.
  In connection with national-defense contracts involving secret and classified
work for the Atomic Energy Commission, the Army, Navy, and Air Force legis-
lation should be enacted which subjects officers of national labor unions having
bargaining contracts to the same security standards as members who have access
to secret or classified material.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                  ACTIVITIES         85

  Recommendations contained in the 1950 annual report of the com-
           House of Representatives, dated January 2, 1951
mittee to the                                                             :




  The year 1950 has marked a new stage in the struggle against communism in
the United States. The attack upon Korea makes it plain beyond all doubt that
communism has passed beyond the use of subversion to conquer the independent
nations and will now use armed invasion and war. With the Armed Forces of the
United States actually pitted in conflict against the legions of international com-
munism, the Communist Party of the United States can no longer be viewed pas-
sively as a group of mere political and ideological dissidents, but
                                                                    must be looked
upon with all seriousness as a military fifth column actively aiding our enemies.
                                                                             in our
  Yet, today we find many of these potential fifth columnists employed
leading defense plants, making weapons to be used against the Communist
armies which they are pledged to support. To remove these persons from posi-
tions where they could sabotage our defense production, there was included in
the Wood-McCarran Communist-control bill a section which prohibits employ-
ment of Communist Party members in defense plants designated as such by the
Secretary of Defense. The committee recommends that the Congress adopt a
resolution calling upon the Secretary of Defense to immediately place in effect
the provisions of section 5 of Public Law 831, Eighty-first Congress.
  The operations of the Smith Act and the Subversive Activities Control Act
of 1950, and the various Communist cases before the courts should be made
the subject of continuing study during the coming year, with a view to deter-
mine their effectiveness and the adoption of constantly improved methods of
restricting the operations of the Communist fifth column. We cannot afford
to allow ourselves to become hopelessly enmeshed in outworn legal technicalities
which oftentimes serve to give protection and encouragement to a most insidious
internal foe. We must streamline our legal machinery to meet the present
emergency, which poses legal problems never envisaged by our Founding Fathers.
  Loopholes in the present laws and in procedure before congressional com-
mittees, which Communist lawyers are quick to exploit, should be plugged up.
The committee recommends that the Congress seriously consider authorizing
the use of technical evidence secured during the course of investigations in-
volving espionage, treason, or other crimes involving the security of the United
States, to intercept and use as evidence in any criminal proceeding information
obtained as the result of a technical surveillance.
   Both in the courts and in hearings before our committee, the informative
value of testimony by those who have actually been inside the Communist move-
ment, either as undercover agents or as former party members, has been in-
creasingly demonstrated. In the light of the present world situation and the
possible aggravation of the Communist problem, it can be expected that legal
prosecutions will increase, making the services of qualified witnesses more and
more indispensable in building up evidence. Thought should be given to ways
and means of stimulating defections from the Communist movement and of
encouraging qualified informants.
   In connection with hearings dealing with local 74 of the AFL Laborers'
Union, it was brought out that those operating under the discipline and direc-
tion of the Communist Party went through the process of formally resigning
from the party and then signing the non-Communist affidavit, in order to comply
with the provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. A number of cases of this kind
have been brought to the attention of the committee. The incoming Congress
should study the advisability of amending the act in order to make such evasion
illegal   and impossible.
  Recommendations contained in the 1951 annual report of the com-
mittee to the House of Representatives, dated February 17, 1952               :




  The committee feels that, in line with the findings on Soviet espionage in the
United States as reflected in the committee report, The Shameful Years, it is
necessary that positive steps be taken to stem Soviet espionage. It is felt that
Congress must take the initial steps to ascertain what legislation is necessary
to afford adequate protection against espionage. In the course of such congres-
sional study, it would be necessary to ascertain whether the existing laws relat-
ing to espionage have been properly enforced and, if not, proper responsibility
                                               ;


should be affixed.
  The committee suggests that among the phases Congress should consider in
strengthening espionage legislation are  :
86      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                   ACTIVITIES

  A  single comprehensive espionage statute applicable to both peacetime and
wartime.   —
           This should incorporate the present provisions of wartime espionage
statutes, carrying a capital-punishment sentence.      The statute of limitations
would not then apply in espionage any more than it applies to other crimes
carrying a capital punishment. The provisions of legislation dealing with the
unauthorized taking of classified Government papers and documents should be
broadened to include the transportation of such papers and documents in inter-
state or foreign commerce.
                                                                —
  The broadening of the rules of admissibility of evidence. The committee is
also aware that the executive branch of the Government is seriously being
hampered in the prosecution of persons engaged in espionage because of the
present limitations on evidence that may be presented in the courts. The com-
mittee realizes that the restrictions against the admissibility of evidence secured
from wire tapping has been imposed to protect the rights of the individual. The
committee, while desiring to maintain all of the rights of the individual, feels
that the rights of the individual can be preserved only if the national security
remains. It is the committee's opinion that, if Soviet espionage continues un-
checked, the rights of American citizens are being placed in graver danger than
would be the case with legalized wire tapping. The committee suggests, there-
fore, that Congress consider legislation to permit as evidence the results of wire
tapping in matters affecting the national security as well as in such crimes as
kidnaping and extortion. In order that a proper control might be exercised, it
is felt that, as in the matter of arrests, searches, and seizures, the judicial branch
of the Government should be empowered to authorize the use of such techniques.
   Immunity for witnesses appearing before congressional, executive, or judicial
hearings.   —
           The committee also feels that, since it is essential to any investiga-
tion,whether it be congressional, executive, or judicial, to have the testimony
of competent and informed witnesses, legislation should be enacted to effect a
greater latitude in granting immunity from prosecution to these witnesses.
  The committee has frequently experienced instances where witnesses while
having information of undoubted value to the work of the committee, have
refused to answer questions on the basis that to do so might tend to incriminate
them. If such legislation as suggested by the committee were enacted, it would,
while maintaining the rights of the individual, permit the proper investigative
bodies to gather a true and comprehensive picture of the information they seek.
                                                                          —
  Reciprocal restrictions on travel by Soviet and satellite diplomats. The com-
mittee's investigations have also disclosed that Soviet espionage has been assisted
by the fact that Soviet nationals have been given unlimited freedom to travel
throughout the United States and to and from Canada and Mexico. The com-
mittee's reports dealing with Soviet espionage show that Soviet officials have
abused this freedom to actively engage in espionage operations. This situation
exists even though United States diplomats in Russia and her satellites are
virtually under house arrest and under constant surveillance by the Russian
secret police. There have been instances in which United States officials have
been prohibited from contact with American nationals who were being held by
authorities in Soviet countries.
  Tor these reasons, the committee feels that there should be reciprocal restric-
tions enforced by this country with the Soviet and satellite countries.
  The committee also feels that, in order to afford a greater national security,
foreign nationals entering the United States should be required to surrender
their passports and/or visas at the point of entry and that these papers should
not be returned until the departure of the individual from the United States.
                          —
  Issuance of passports. The committee recommends that all persons securing
passports must, at the time the passport application is executed, state under
oath whether they will or will not visit any of the presently so-called ironTCurtain
countries.
  The committee also recommends that if, in the course of travel abroad, any
person holding a passport finds it necessary to visit an iron-curtain country,
and did not indicate that he intended to visit an iron-curtain country on his
original application, he must obtain authority to make such a visit from either
a consular officer of the United States, the proper Ambassador, or a specified
member of the consular or ambassadorial staffs.
   A similar provision, such as that set forth in paragraph 2 of this section,
should also be made applicable to all persons holding passports who desire to
visit any other country exclusive of iron-curtain countries and who have not
indicated their intention to visit these other countries on the original passport
application.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                            87

   It is hoped that these provisions will prevent American Communists from
receiving instructions from abroad. It is a well-known fact that American
Communists often travel abroad for the purpose of receiving instructions from
Communist functionaries, not only in the iron-curtain countries but in other
European countries as well.
                             —
   Cancellation of passports. The committee in the past has experienced several
instances in which persons for whom subpenas have been issued are found to
be outside the United States and the subpenas cannot be served upon them.
The committee recognizes the fact that a person might endeavor to use a pro-
longed absence from the country as a means to evade appearance before this,
as well as other congressional committees.
   It is believed that in order to cope with such situations legislation should be
enacted to provide for the cancellation of the passports in the possession of
any United States citizen in a foreign country for whom a subpena is out-
standing within 6 months of the date upon which he receives personal notifica-
tion that such subpena is outstanding. Notice would be made by an accredited
oflicial designated by the United States Department of State.
                                                        —
   Revocations of commissions in the armed services. The committee, during its
hearings, has had the unfortunate experience of having had before it witnesses
who, while holding commissions in the armed services of the United States,
have refused to affirm or deny allegations of membership in the Communist Party
or Communist-front organizations. The committee is aware that a commission
in the armed services of the United States is a privilege accorded to citizens
of the United States of unquestioned loyalty and not an inherent right provided
for in the Constitution. This being the case, the committee recommends that
in any instance where a person holding a commission in the armed services
chooses to refuse to answer questions concerning his present or past membership
in the Communist Party, such commission shall be immediately revoked.

  It will be recognized that many of these recommendations have
been enacted into law. Among those which have not been enacted
are some that should be given early attention by Congress so that our
country might have the legal channels necessary for our own protec-
tion in these critical times. Legislation must be enacted that will
cover the present serious situation in which, through our representa-
tion in the United Nations, our Armed Forces are combating an enemy,
although technically we are not in a state of war.
  Since our espionage and internal-security legislation is now gaged
upon times of war and peace, these distinctions should be removed
in order that war measures may be enforced during this and similar
critical times.
  In matters dealing with internal security, it is believed necessary
that emergency powers of the executive branch of the Government be
placed on a wartime basis in periods such as now exist.
  As a result of the committee's findings regarding the extent of Com-
munist infiltration into vital defense areas, the committee is of the
opinion that it must again, and more forcibly, recommend, as it did
on January 2, 1951, that the Congress adopt a resolution calling upon
the Secretary of Defense to immediately place into effect the provi-
sions of section 5 of Public Law 831 of the Eighty-first Congress,
which states in part     :



  Sec. 5. (a) When a Communist organization, as defined in paragraph (5) of
section 3 of this title, is registered or there is in effect a final order of the Board
requiring such organization to register, it shall be unlawful  —
       (1) For any member of such organization, with knowledge or notice that
     such organization is so registered or that such order has become final     :


       (A) In seeking, accepting, or holding any nonelective office or employment
     under the United States, to conceal or fail to disclose the fact that he is a
     member of such organization or;

       (B) To hold any nonelective office or employment under the United
     States   ;
                  or
88     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                     ACTIVITIES

        (C) In seeking, accepting, or holding employment in any defense facility,
     to conceal or fail to disclose the fact that    he is a member of such organ-
     ization or
             ;


        (D) If such organization is a Communist-action organizaiton, to engage
     in any employment in any defense facility.
        (2) For any officer or employee of the United States or of any defense
     facility, with knowledge or notice that such organization is so registered or
     that such order has become final    :


        (A) To contribute funds or services to such organization; or
        (B) To advise, counsel, or urge any person, with knowledge or notice that
     such person is a member of such organization to perform, or to omit to
     perform, any act if such act or ommission would constitute a violation of
     any provision of subparagraph (1) of this subsection.
   (b) The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to designate and
proclaim, and from time to time revise, a list of facilities, as defined in paragraph
 (7) of section 3 of this title, with respect to the operation of which he finds and
determines that the security of the United States requires the application of the
provisions of subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary shall cause such list
as designated and proclaimed, or any revision thereof, to be promptly published
in the Federal Register, and shall promptly notify the management of any
facility so listed ; whereupon such management shall immediately post con-
spicuously, and thereafter while so listed keep posted, notice of such designation
in such form and in such place or places as to give reasonable notice thereof to
all employees of, and to all applicants for employment in, such facility.

   Paragraph   5 of section 3, referred to above, reads as follows               :




   (5) The term "Communist organization" means a Communist-action organ-
ization or a Communist-front organization.

  Paragraph 7 of       section 3 referred to above reads as follows          :




   (7) The term "facility" means any plant, factory, or other manufacturii g pi
                                                                                          •




ducing or service establishment, airport, airport facility, vessel, pier, wate T *i ~m\
facility, mine, railroad, public utility, laboratory, station, or other establis:
or facility, or any part, division, or department of any of the foregoing. 'J
term "defense facility" means any facility designated and proclaimed by
Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 5 (b) of this title and included o;i tin
list published and currently in effect under such subsection, and which is in f«oi
pliance with the provisions of such subsection respecting the posting of notion
such designation.
  The committee finds it again necessary to recommend legislation
which would broaden the rules of admissibility of evidence. The
security agencies are being seriously hampered in successful prosecu-
tion of violations of our espionage and internal-security statutes by
their inability to place into testimony evidence that has been secured
through use of wire tapping and similar investigative techniques.
   One of the most important recommendations, in a matter which
has been sadly lacking in the past few years, was made by the com-
mittee on March 15, 1950, calling for the fullest cooperation between
the legislative and executive arms of the Government in the matter
of dealing with subversive activities. It is a tragedy that during the
past few years this cooperation has been for the most part one-sided
in that it was only congressional committees which were furnishing
information to agencies of the executive branch. Tl
demonstration of the benefits of such cooperation is
William Walter Remington in which, through the sole
efforts of this committee, sufficient information was secur
the executive branch to obtain an indictment against Rem
  The committee further recommends that it be made a ci
person or persons to unauthorizedly transport in intersta
any Government document falling within a secret, coni
stricted, or top-secret classification.
           ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES    89

  It is also recommended that the Civil Service Act be amended to
provide that Government employees under the Civil Service Act who
are employed in the United States or Territories must be citizens of
the United States or owe allegiance
                            J
                              i=>'
                                    to the United States.


                                  o




 };   VA-t




       j

 10 93

