              ANNUAL REPORT
                              OF THE
COMMITTEE            ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                        FOR THE YEAR

                               1949




                           MARCH     15,   1950




                       Prepared and released by the
COMMITTEE   ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                            WASHINGTONj    D.   C
      Committee on Un-American                Activities

         U.    S.   House    of Representatives

                              •
     John   S.      Wood, Georgia, Chairman
        Francis E. Walter, Pennsylvania
        Burr P. Harrison, Virginia
        John McSweeney, Ohio
        Morgan M. Moulder, Missouri
        Richard M. Nixon, California
        Francis Case, South Dakota
        Harold H. Velde, Illinois
        Bernard W. Kearney, New York




         Frank       S.   Tavenner,   Jr.,   Counsel
       Louis   J. Russell, Senior Investigator

     John W. Carrington, Clerk of Committee
      Benjamin Mandel, Director of Research
11
                                 CONTENTS
                                                                             Page
Espionage                                                                       1
    Gen. Izyador Modelski                                                       1
    Nicholas Dozenberg                                                         2
     Jet propulsion   and   aircraft                                           2
     Mary Jane and     Philip O.   Keeney                                      3
    Paul Crouch                                                                4
Atomic espionage                                                               5
    Nelson- Weinberg case                                                      5
    Hiskey- Adams case                                                         6
    Jordan hearing                                                             7
     Spotlight on spies                                                         7
Labor                                                                          8-
    United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America (CIO).-            8-

Communist Party, U. S. A., and the international movement                      10
Communist activity in the District of Columbia                                11
Minority groups                                                               11
    George K. Hunton                                                          11
     Thomas W. Young                                                          12
     Lester B. Granger                                                        12
     Dr. Charles S. Johnson                                                   13
     C. B. Clark                                                              13
     Jack "Jackie'" Roosevelt Robinson                                        13
     Manning Johnson                                                          13
    Rabbi Benjamin Schultz                                                    14
Communist-front organizations                                                 14
    Scientific and Cultural Conference for World Peace                        14
    American Slav Congress                                                    14
    Congress of American Women                                                15
    Southern Conference for Human Welfare                                     15
In retrospect                                                                 15
    Twelve Comnmnist leaders                                                  15
    Harry Bridges                                                             16
    Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee                                      16
     Gerhart Eisler                                                           17
    Commimist-dominated unions                                                17
    The Hiss conviction                                                       17
Files of the   committee                                                      18
Distribution of publications                                                  21
Recommendations                                                               23
Appendix I. Excerpts from Report of Commission on Subversive   Activities,
  Maryland, January 1949                                                      25
Appendix II. Testimony of Yelverton Cowherd                                   46
Appendix III
    Eastern Division, Czechoslovak National Council of America, corre-
      spondence, etc                                                          52
    Obzor Publishing Co., correspondence, etc                                 68
    Polish-American Labor Council, correspondence                             73
    John Gillin, correspondence, etc                                          73
    Review of the Scientific and Cultural Conference for World Peace,
        correction                                                            75.

                                                                     in
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERJCAN ACTIV-
  ITIES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FOR THE YEAR 1949

  The following report for the year 1949 is submitted to the House of
Representatives in pursuance of House Resolution 5, adopted, by the
House of Representatives, Seventy-ninth Congi^ess, first session, on
January 3, 1945, and Public Law 601 (sec. 121, subsec.         Q
                                                         (2) ) adopted
August 2, 1946, setting up the Committee on Un-American Activities,
and authorizing such reports of the committee's activities and recom-
mendations.
  Hearings, investigations, and reports of the Committee on Un-
American Activities for the past year dealt in the main with such
aspects of connnunism as espionage the Communist Party, U. S. A.
                                          ;                                   ;


the Connnunist Information Bureau (Cominform) Communist activ-
                                                           ;



ity in the District of Columbia infiltration of labor unions propa-
                                     ;                                ;



ganda among minority groups and Communist-front organizations.
                                 ;




                              ESPIONAGE
  The committee    believes that espionage is one of the most deadly
weapons   in thehands of the American Communists at the present time.
Investigations during previous years indicated that the Communists
resorted extensively to this activity, regardless of the relations between
the Soviet Union and the United States.
  The major part of the committee's attention during 1949, therefore,
was devoted to unearthing additional evidence of Communist activity
in this field. The following is a summary of some of the testimony
heard by the committee in connection with its espionage investigations.

                        GEN. IZYADOR MODELSKI

   Evidence of current Communist espionage was presented to the
committee by Gen. Izyaclor Modelski, former military attache of the
Polish Embassy, who broke with the Communists late in 1948. Armed
with a mass of official Polish Government documents. General Modelski
appeared before the committee on March 31 and April 1, 1949, and
described the operations of a spy ring working from the Polish Em-
bassy in Washington, D. C.. witli the aid of the Russian Embassy.
   He testified that the Polish esi)ionage ring was Nation-wide in scope
and was directed by one Col. Gustaw Alef-Bolkowiak, who was offi-
cially attached to the Embassy as deputy military attache.         Docu-
ments introduced by General Modelski included Polish Government
instructions for the operation of the espionage apparatus in the Em-
bassy, and detailed requests for every type of scientific, political, and
industrial information about the United States. The Polish Govern-
ment also asked for such specific military information as the strength
of the various units of the   armed      forces   and new technical inventions
in that field.
L,                                                                        1
2        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAX ACTIVITIES

  General Modelski also identified an Embassy deputy, Ignace
Zlotowski, as head of a special atomic espionage unit within the Polish
Embassy. He said that similar spy rings operated in the embassies
and legations of other Balkan nations under the domination of Russia.

                            NICHOLAS DOZENBERG

   Conclusive evidence that a Communist espionage apparatus existed
in the  United States as early as 1928 was presented to the committee
last year through the statement of Nicholas Dozenberg, self-confessed
former agent of Soviet Military Intelligence in this country.
   Although Dozenberg was at one time convicted and imprisoned on
charges of passport fraud in connection with his Connnunist activi-
ties, his statement, wdiicli was submitted at a committee hearing on
November 8, 1949, was his first public revelation of the operations of
a major espionage ring in w^hich he had participated.
   Dozenberg revealed that he, as a Communist, was recruited into
Soviet intelligence work in late 1927 or early 1928 by the then head of
Soviet Military Intelligence in the United States, one Alfred Tilton,
alias Joseph Paquett,
   Dozenberg described how Tilton and a photographer-assistant by
the name of Lydia Stahl photographed documents in the photographic
studios of one Joseph Turin in New York City. Dozenberg recalled
that Tilton once spent an entire night photostating plans of the British
warship Royal Oak^ which plans he had intercepted as the result of
his espionage activity. Dozenberg said that he himself, on orders
from Moscow, helped a Soviet intelligence agent, Jacob Kirchenstein,
establish an American business and credit background and necessary
contacts in 1930 or 1931.
   Kirchenstein operated under the alias Frank Kleges, the ]iame of a
deceased American war veteran, whose papers were obtained for him
by Alfred Tilton, according to Dozenberg. Dozenberg also admitted
espionage assignments in Rumania, China, and the Philippines.
   Among others in the espionage ring identified by Dozenberg were
Mark Zilbert, who, in 1929, succeeded Tilton as head of Soviet Military
Intelligence in this country Boris Devyatkin, alias Dick Murzin, in
                               ;



charge of Soviet intelligence for the New York area under Zilbert;
xA^lbert Feierabend Richard Bassow Robert Zelms and a Dr. Philip
                   ;                  ;              ;


Rosenbleitt who is presently reported to be in Paris, France.

                       JET PROPULSION AND AIRCRAFT

  Attempts of a Soviet espionage agent, Andrei V. Sclievchenko. to
obtain secret information regarding aeronautical developments at the
Bell Aircraft Corp. and Westinghouse Electric Co. during World War
II were revealed through the testimony on June (>. 1919, of three
witnesses who had been contacted by Schevchenko. They were Joseph
John Franey, rubber repairman for the Hooker Electro-Chemical Co.,
Niagara Falls, N, Y. his wife, Leona Vivian Franey, librarian for
                        ;

Bell Aircraft at Niagara Falls; and Loren G. Haas, air and power
research engineer formerly employed at Bell Aircraft. All of these
witnesses notified the FBI when they were contacted by Schevchenko
and continued contacts with him under FBI instructions.
       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                 6

  Mrs. Fraiiey testified that Schevchenko, posino; as a purchasing
agent for the Soviet Government, tried to obtain from her copies of
data on jet propelled planes, swept-back airplane wings, and similar
confidential matter.
  Her husband   described how he also was approached for information
by  Schevchenko,  accompanied by two other Soviet aides, Vladimir
Mazurin, and Nicolai Ostrofsky. The Franeys said the Soviet agents
tried to tempt them with offers of money and, for Mrs. Franey, furs
and jewelry from Russia.
  In corroborating the Franeys' testimony, Loren G. Haas said Schev-
chenko tried to obtain from him information regarding a device for
the modification of a turbo-supercharger which would increase the
speed of an aircraft 50 miles per hour.

                 MARY JAXE AXD PHILIP     0.   KEENET
   Committee hearings held on May 24 and 25 and June 9, 1949, exposed
the associations of Mr. and Mrs. Philip O. Keeney, former United
States Government employees, with persons previously identified with
Communist espionage rings in the United States. The evidence
showed also that Mrs. Keeney actually served as a courier for the Com-
munist Party. Both had subsequently tried to obtain passports to
foreign countries, but without success. In one of Mr. Keeney 's at-
tempts to leave the country it was established that he had at-
tempted to leave without a valid passport.
  Mrs. Keeney personally admitted to the committee her associations
with Gerhart Eisler, the ranking Communist International agent in
the United States until he escaped the country following court convic-
tions for passport fraud and contempt of Congress. She also admitted
associations with Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Gregory Silvermaster and
William Ludwig Ullmann, who have been identified by former Soviet
espionage agents as collaborators in a spy apparatus. Mrs. Keeney
denied actual membership in the Communist Party, however.
   The committee took cognizance of an FBI report submitted in the
case of the Unifed States of Am,enca v. Judith Coplon., which disclosed
that: (a) Mrs. Keeney delivered a manila envelope to one Jacob Bern-
stein immediately upon her return from France on March 9, 1946;
and that (b) the afore-mentioned Bernstein shortly thereafter trans-
ferred the envelope to Alex Trachtenberg, a leading official of the
Communist Party in the United States.
  In questioning Mr. Keeney, the committee developed that on De-
cember 9, 1948, within 3 months after the State Department denied
him a passport to leave this country, Mr. Keeney attempted to sail
without the necessary papers. United States customs officials, how-
ever, refused to clear the ship on which Mr. Keeney had purchased a
ticket, and. as a result, Mr. Keeney did not sail. It is interesting to
note that the ship involved was the Batory^ the same Polish steamer
on which Gerhart Eisler escaped from American justice, and that the
lawyer who encouraged him in this unsuccessful attempt to leave the
country was Mrs. Carol King, Gerhart Eisler's attorney.
  Mr. Keeney refused to answer questions asked by the committee
regarding membership in the Communist Party. He was employed
by the Library of Congress from 1940 to 1943, where he handled classi-
4       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

fied material  by the Foreign Economic Administration from 1943 to
                ;


1945, where he was Chief of the Document Security Section and by
                                                             ;

the War Department from 1945 to 1947.
  He was released from his duties at Fort Mason, Calif., on June 7,
1947, for reasons not made available to the committee because the com-
mittee is unable to obtain information from the executive branch of
the Government pertaining to loj'alty records of employees of the
executive branch.
  Mrs. Keeney worked for the Board of Economic Warfare, later
known   as the Foreign Economic Administration, beginning in 1942.
She worked for the Allied Commission on Reparations in 1945 and
1946. After the FEA was blanketed into the State Department she
was employed in the Interim Research and Policy Division of the
Office of Internal Security. In 1948 she became employed in the Docu-
ment Control Section of the United Nations secretariat. Mrs. Keeney
refused to divulge the names of persons tln-ough whom she obtained
this latter employment on the ground that she was instructed by the
Director of the Bureau of Personnel of the United Nations not to
answer questions relating to operations within the United Nations.

                              PAUL CROUCH
    Acomprehensive picture of Communist underground activity was
offered in the testimony ofPaul Crouch on May 6, 1949. A member of
the Communist Party from 1925 to 1942, Mr. Crouch held such respon-
sible party positions as member of the national executive committee
of the Young Communist League, head of the antimilitarist depart-
ment of the Communist Party, representative of the Young Commu-
nist League in Moscow, member of the antimilitarist commission of
the Young Communist International, and Communist district organ-
izer in the South.
  The witness testified that Nicholas Dozenberg, Soviet espionage
agent previously described in this report, introduced him in 1929 to
the head of the Soviet secret police in the United States, who informed
Crouch that Young Communist League members should do everything
possible to get jobs in the State Department and other branches of the
Federal Government. Crouch was also asked to see what he could do
about obtaining blank passport books.
  Crouch further testified that a year earlier he had been the only
American representative present at a Moscow meeting where detailed
instructions for Communist infiltration of the armed forces of the
United States and other countries were worked out. Crouch said the
Communists were told to concentrate on strategic military objectives,
and that Panama and Hawaii were recommended for special
concentration.
  He identified Max Bedacht, Walter Trumbull, and Emmanuel
Levine as leaders in the American Communist Party's efforts to carry
out the armed forces infiltration program. Crouch said he remembered
that the Communists succeeded in getting cells aboard the U. S. S.
Oklahoma and into Fort Snelling, Minn.
  In the early 1940's Crouch was active in an attempt to infiltrate the
 radiation laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
He identified  as his Communist associates in this effort Kenneth May,
 Rudy Lambert, and Marcel Scherer.
       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     O

COI^BIUNIST INFILTRATION OF RADIATION LABORA-
               TORY AND ATOMIC ESPIONAGE
  Communist espioiicage in the vital field of atomic energy continued
to get special attention in committee investigations during the year
1949.
                         NELSON-"SVEINBERG CASE

   By pursuing investigations begun back in 1947, the committee was
able to offer the American public a comprehensive picture of the opera-
tions of a Communist cell in the wartime atomic project at the radia-
tion laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
   Witness James Sterling Murray, former officer in charge of security
and intelligence in San Francisco for the Manhattan Engineering
District, which was the agency responsible for the development of the
atomic bomb, testified that a' highly confidential informant told his
office that a scientist at the radiation laboratories had disclosed certain
secret information about the Manhattan engineering project to a mem-
ber of the Communist Party in San Francisco. From information
supplied on the background of the particular scientist, one Joseph W.
Weinberg was identified as the scientist who had disclosed the infor-
mation referred to.
   Murray testified from knowledge received in personal surveillance
of Joseph W. Weinberg and Steve Nelson. He was corroborated by
statements from other security officers of the Manhattan District. It
was disclosed from this evidence that a meeting was held at the home
of Joseph Weinberg, in Berkeley, Calif., in August 1943, which was
attended by Joseph W. Weinberg; Bernadette Doyle, secretary to Steve
Nelson during the period he was the Communist Party organizer for
Alameda County, Calif.; Steve Nelson; Giovanni Rossi Lomanitz;
Irving David Fox; David Joseph Bohm; and Ken Max Manfred,
formerly known as Max Bernard Friedman.
   Confronted with Nelson at committee hearings, Weinberg denied
that he knew or had ever been acquainted with Steve Nelson. He also
denied knowing Bernadette Doyle. The committee thereupon for-
mally requested the Department of Justice to institute perjury pro-
ceedings against Joseph Weinberg, relating to the meeting of August
23, 1943, and his acquaintanceship with Steve Nelson and Bernadette
Doyle.
   Supplementary evidence regarding Weinberg's Commmiist associ-
ations was supplied in the testimony of Mr. and Mrs. Paul Crouch, who
stated they had attended Communist meetings with this scientist.
   Other members of the Communist cell at the Radiation Laboratory
were identified as Giovanni Rossi Lomanitz, David Joseph Bohm, Max
Bernard Friedman, and Irving David Fox. "When questioned about
Communist activity, each refused to answer on the ground of self-
incrimination.
  A  detailed history of Steve Nelson's activities as a Communist Party
functionary and espionage agent was made public for the first time in
the course of these hearings. The fact that he had resorted to passport
fraud was also revealed.

      62106—50-
6       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

    A native of
              Yugoslavia, Steve Nelson entered the United States on
June           posing as Joseph Fleischinger. He joined the Com-
       12, 1920,
munist Party in the early 1920's and in 1928 was granted United States
citizenship.
   Nelson received special training in the Lenin School in Moscow in
1931, and in 1933 acted as an operative for the Communist Interna-
tional in Shanghai, China.   In 1936 and 1937, he served as a lieutenant
colonel in the Communist-recruited International Brigade in Spain.
Although active as a Communist Party organizer in California and
Pennsylvania and as a member of the Communist Party National
Committee, his most important assignment was atomic espionage.
   While Nelson was active in California, he renewed his acquaintance
with a woman whom he had met in Europe and whose first husband
had been killed while fighting with the Spanish Loyalists during the
Spanish Civil War. This woman, during the interim, had married a
leading atomic scientist. After meeting both the woman and her
scientist husband several times, Nelson reported to his superiors that
they were not in sympathy with the Communist Party and therefore
would not be of any assistance in atomic espionage. Nelson then pro-
ceeded to recruit a Communist cell at the Radiation Laboratory of the
University of California which was engaged in research Avork relating
to the development of the atomic bomb.
   During the course of the committee's investigation of Steve Nelson,
it was developed that Nelson had at times been in contact with one

Ralph Bowman, alias Rudy Baker, alias Heinz Zimmerman, who in the
early 1940's was a high official in the Communist International "ap-
paratus" operating in the United States.

                       HISKEY-ADAMS CASE

  The committee had developed the case of Clarence Francis Hiskey,
Arthur Alexandrovich Adams, and John Hitchcock Chapin in 1948.
This dealt with an atomic espionage group operating through the
Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago.    (See pp. 19
and 20 of the 1948 annual report.) In 1949, it pursued this inquiry
still further, and produced additional evidence regarding the
                                                              Hiskey-
Adams case.
    James Sterling Murray,   security officer for the   Manhattan Engi-
neering District,   who has been  previously mentioned herein, testified
on August 14, 1949, that after Clarence Hiskey was removed from his
post as an atomic scientist he was inducted into the United States Army
and stationed near Mineral Wells in Alaska. Thereafter, Murray said,
a surveillance by Agent Charles Clark of the Intelligence Section of
the Manhattan Engineering District at Edmonton, Alberta, Canada,
disclosed that while on his way to his Alaskan post Hiskey was in pos-
session of written matter classified by Gen. Leslie R. Groves as top
secret.  This material was removed from Hiskey's possession without
his knowledge by Agent Clark. It is interesting to note that prior to
the removal of the secret material in Hiskey's possession arrangements
had been made for him to contact a second Soviet agent in Alaska.
However, this contact was never made after the secret material was
removed from Hiskey's possession. Another witness testified that he
had been introduced to Adams, notorious Soviet espionage operative,
by Hiskey.
        REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                        7

  On May   24. 1949, Hiskey was given an opportunity to defend him-
self, with the assistance of counsel, against accusations made before
the committee. He refused to affirm or deny the charges on the ground
of self-incrimination.
   On the same day, the committee heard Paul Crouch, who identihed
                                               in Knoxville, Tenn.    He
Hiskey as a member of the Communist Party
festified that Hiskev  collaborated with :Marcel  S.cherer, the "national
head of Communist work among chemists, scientists"' and similar pro-
fessionals, who operated in California
                                        in 1941.

                              JORDAN HEARING

  On December       5, 1949, the committee
                                                received the testimony of
George    Racev   Jordan   regarding alleged shipments of Government
documents and uranium to the Soviet Union by way of a United States
Army airport at Great Falls, Mont., during the war. Jordan stated
that 'it had been his assignment to expedite the shipments. In an
effort to determine the validity of these charges, the committee sum-
moned other witnesses, including Gen. Leslie R. Groves, former head of
the Manhattan Engineering District. Since the investigation is con-
                                                             will withhold a
tinuing into the present year, 1950, the committee
report  on  this phase of its investigations at the  present time.
   The Committee on Un-American Activities was gratified, during
the year, to receive a high compliment regarding its espionage investi-
gations.    In an appearance before the committee on December 7, 1949,
Gen. Leslie E. Groves made the following statement         :




  I know of no ease where the committee, with respect to Russian espionage, has
made known to me anything that was not correct.
   (
          —
    Xoit::.   Additional hearings have been held to further develop this
case and are being printed in a separate volume.)

                            SPOTLIGHT ON SPIES

  By the issuance of the pamphlet Spotlight on Spies, a picture of how
the Soviet spy system operates in the United States was offered to the
Members of Congress and the American public.
   In the simple popular form of 100 questions and answers, the pam-
phlet describes the structure and methods of operation of espionage
rings, the material they are after, and how successful they have been
in some instances.   The recruitment and training of secret agents, the
functions of couriers, and the use of microfilm are also described.
   The information is based on voluminous testimony before the com-
mittee regarding Communist espionage. Much of this testimony is
from confessed former espionage agents.
   Nine thousand copies of this report were published, receiving wide
reprint in the public press. The supply was so quickly exhausted that
                                —
the brochure was reprinted the second time in combination with
other similar pamphlets in one larger volume entitled "100 Things
You Should Know About Communism."
8           REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AJVIERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                  LABOR
    Aprimary Communist objective is the penetration and
                                                           control of
the labor movement in the United States. The international Commu-
nist "apparatus" has supported local Communists in this objective.
The Committee on Un-American Activities, therefore, has felt obli-
gated to expose the machinations of the Communists
                                                   in the labor field.


UNITED ELECTRICAL, RADIO, AND MACHINE WORKERS OF AMERICA              (CIO)


  In view of the present concern regarding our national-defense pro-
                               it of paramount importance to pursue
gram, the committee considered
                                                  Communist      the
                                                              clique at
Its   investigations into the activities of the
head of this union.
  Testimony heard by the committee regarding the United Electrical,
Eadio, and Machine Workers of America (CIO) resulted in partial
exposure of the Communist control which has bee-n exercised
                                                                  over the
national union organization, District Comicil G, and local GOl.
  On August 9, 19-19, the connnittee heard the testimony of Charles
Edward Copeland, business agent of local 601 of the United Electrical,
Eadio, and Machine Workers in the industrial metropolis of Pitts-
burgh. Having been a member of the Communist Party from
                                                                      1943
to 1945, he identified the following oflicials of this local as having at-
tended meetings with him Frank Nestler, editor of the local union
                              :




paper Thomas J. Fitzpatrick, chief steward Frank Panzino, assist-
        ;
                                                   ;



ant chief steward; and Robert Whisner, subdivision steward of the
local union. He estimated that from 200 to 300 members supported
the pro-Communist wing of the union.
  Demonstrating the manner in which Communists utilize unions for
recruiting purposes, William Henry Peeler, another member of
                                                                       the
local, described how   Dorothy  Faraday,   district secretary of the UE,
had solicited him for membership in the Communist Party. He said
similar approaches were made by Nathan Alberts of the union staff,
and that Alberts had proudly referred to Tom Fitzpatrick and Frank
Panzino as fellow Communists. Mr. Peeler described the fluctuations
in the policy of the pro-Communist bloc in the union in accordance
with the party line, and he also described its support of certain Com-
munist-front organizations.
  Blair Seese, another member of local 601, testified that he had been
asked to join the Communist Party by Marshall Docherty, an officer
of the local, working in collusion with Joe Godfrey, an organizer for
the party. Fitzpatrick had privately admitted party membership
to Seese. Under the regime of Communist officials, the union office had
been used for the circulation of petitions in behalf of the 12 Commu-
nist leaders on trial in New York and for the solicitation of subscrip-
tions to the Daily Worker. Union mailing lists were employed for the
circulation of their Communist literature.
   Stanley Glass, recording secretary of local 601, testified that he had
been solicited to join the Communist Party by Thomas Fitzpatrick,
who described to him the glories of Soviet Russia. Mr. Glass held that
district council 6 of the    UEwas under complete Communist domi-
nation.
         REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                  9

   On August 10, 1949, Thomas J. Fitzpatrick, Frank Panzino, and
Robert C. Wliisner were given a full opportunity by the committee to
answer the charges whicli had been made against them. They all
refused to affirm or deny Communist Party membership on constitu-
tional grounds.    Mr. Whisner a dmitted being delegated by the Friends
of the Soviet Union to visit that country in 1934 without, however,
indicating on his passport application that he intended to go to Russia.
Wlien he returned from his trip, he was a featured speaker for the New
York district, Friends of the Soviet Union, on December 12, 1934,
together with Pat Toohey, a leading Commmiist Party official. He
then wrote for the magazine, Soviet Russia Today, in the January 1935
issue, a letter captioned "U. S. S. R. Points Way for American Work-
ers." Thomas Quinn, a field organizer for UE, admitted chairmanship
of the Western Pennsylvania Civil Rights Congress, which was cited
as subversive by Attorney General Tom C. Clark. He refused, how-
ever, to affirm or deny Communist Party membership on constitutional
grounds.
  Joseph Zack Kornfeder, a former member of the central executive
committee of the Communist Party, U. S. A., in charge of trade-union
activities, testified on August 11, 1949, and identified as members of
the Communist Party the following officials of the United Electrical,
Radio, and Machine Workers of America: James J. Matles, UE
national organizational director, and James Lustig, a New York dis-
trict official.   Avoluminous dossier containing Communist and Com-
munist-front associations of Julius Emspak,      UE   national secretary-
treasurer, James Lustig, and Matles, as well as the affiliations of
approximately 100 other officials of this union, was incorporated into
the record of these hearings.
  On December 6, 1949, Mr. Oscar Smith, Deputy Director of Organi-
zation and Personnel for the Atomic Energy Commission, testified
that it was   AEC   policy to consider the question of security in regard
to officials of national unions having bargaining contracts in atomic-
energy installations. He said the   AEC    could not afford to have work
interrupted at such important installations by union officials who
worked not for the best interests of the union members but as agents
of a foreign power. It was as a result of such a policy, Smith
                                                                   stated,
that the   AEC   instructed General Electric not to recognize the United
Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers Union at the new Baiolls
Atomic Power Laboratory    in Schenectady, N. Y.
  Col. Ernest A. Barlow, Chief of the Security and
                                                   Training Corps,
Intelligence Division, Headquarters, Department of the Army, also
appeared before the committee on December 6. He testified that
whenever a company has a defense contract with the Army,
                                                              Nav^^,
or Air Force, the Intelligence Division of the
                                               Army investigates all
key personnel of the company and every employee of the company
who might handle, or have access to, classified material. Colonel
Barlow stated, however, that the Army has no authority, when inves-
tigating for security clearance, to include union officials who may
exercise control over the defense workers through their union.
  It appeared from this testimony that the Atomic
 _                                                      Energy Commis-
sion recognizes the risk involved
                                    regarding national security through
failure to subject officers of certain national labor unions
                                                             having bar-
gaining contracts to the same security requirements as those members
10         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

normally dealing with    classified material, and that the Atomic Energy
Commission construes the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 to apply to the
officers of such a union.    The Security Section of the Department of
the Army, however, contends that it has no authority, under the law
applicable to it, to subject such officials to any type of security stand-
ards, except in instances where an official, in performing his duty, is
required to know or to see classified material. If it is important to
apply such security requirements where atomic secrets are involved,
it would seem equally important to apply security requirements where
secret Army, Navy, and Air Force contracts are involved.
   At its eleventh constitutional convention in November lO-tO, the
Congress of Industrial Organizations voted to expel the United Elec-
trical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America, and to establish a new
union in the same field.

COMMUNIST PARTY, U. S. A., AND THE INTERNATIONAL
            COMMUNIST MOVEMENT
  On August 9, 1949, Joseph Zack Kornfeder, former member of the
central executive committee of the Communist Party, U. S. A., who
had also served on the official staff of the Communist International
and a student of the Lenin School in Moscow, outlined for the com-
mittee the nature of Joseph Stalin's international Communist "appa-
ratus."
  Mr. Kornfeder described how Stalin's battery of secretaries keep
him abreast of developments regarding Communist Parties through-
out the world, and how Moscow has financial control of these parties.
He named the various Soviet colleges for training subversive agents
from all parts of the world, including the United States, and he
named individual American Communists leaders trained in such
schools.
  The work    of the various Communist International departments,
including  those  dealing with agitation-propaganda, organization,
labor, underground activities, youth, women, agriculture, information,
and discipline, was outlined. Kornfeder described the functions of
Moscow secretariats in charge of Communist regional affairs, such as
Far Eastern, Central European, Anglo-American, and Latin- Ameri-
can branches. He identified a number of representatives sent from
Moscow to direct the affairs of the American Communist Party, and he
analyzed Stalin's methods based upon his ( Kornfeder 's) experience
within the Comintern "apparatus."
   On May 6, 1949, Paul Crouch, who had served as an organizer for
the Communist Party in North and South Carolina, Utah, Alabama,
Tennessee, and California, described the operations of the American
Communist Party in these areas, including units in the Tennessee
Valley Authority, one at Fisk University, and another at the Univer-
sity of California.
   Crouch also outlined the activities of the Communists in Miami,
Fla., with particular reference to local 500 of the Transport Workers
Union and the Pan American Air Lines and the Progressive Party of
Florida. Crouch called Miami "the ideal place for Communists to
direct operations in Latin America," because it is the hub of all Pan
American air lines. He said the Conmiunists had a strategic advantage
        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                  11

there because Phil Scheffsky, whom he identified as a Communist
Party member, holds the presidency of       TWU   local 500, which has

jurisdiction over all maintenance and flight service  employees of Pan
American in Miami, San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Balboa, Canal Zone.

      COMMUNIST ACTIVITY IN THE DISTRICT OF
                   COLUMBIA
  Hearings in June and July 1949 dealt with the operations of a
Connnunist group within the Nation's Capital. While this group does
not include Government employees, it was considered worthy of special
attention by the committee in view of the fact that Communists
working outside the Government have been known in the past to aid
subversive agents within the Government.
   The connnittee also inquired into the activities of the Washington
Cooperative Bookshop, which is one of the most important Com-
munist fronts in Washington, D. C, and serves as an outlet for
Connnunist propaganda, and a contact or meeting place. This organi-
zation, since the original writing of this report, has ceased to function.

                       MINORITY GROUPS
   The Connnunist Party, U. S. A,, has consistently sought to create
the impression that it is genuinely interested in furthering the welfare
of our Negro population. The party and its spokesmen claim wide
support among this group. Speaking in behalf of the Communists,
Paul Robeson boasted in Paris on April 20, 1949, that American
Negroes would not defend the United States in the event of a conflict
with the Soviet Union. To permit this false impression to stand un-
challenged would have been unfair to the millions of loyal Negro
Americans. The committee, therefore, arranged a series of hearings
to which were invited outstanding members of our Negro community.
These hearings were arranged largely by Alvin W. Stokes, a Negro
investigator employed for a number of years by the Committee on
Un-American Activities.
  As the first witness in these hearings, Mr. Stokes said that, based
upon interviews with hundreds of Negro leaders throughout the
country, there are not more than 1,400 Negro members of the Com-
munist Party, constituting in fact about one-tenth of 1 percent of the
Negro population. It was his opinion that even among this group
many would desert the Communists in support of the United States in
the event of a national emergency.

                           GEORGE K.   HUNTON
  On July 13, 1949, the committee heard the testimony of George K.
Hunton. executive director of the Catholic Interracial Council and
editor of its publication, the Interracial Review. Mr. Hunton charged
that the Communists sought at all times to increase antagonism between
whites and Negroes. In the famous Scottsboro case, for example, Mr.
Hunton said he became convinced that the Communists "did not want
the boys freed. They wanted them kept in jail * * * to be held up
as martyrs." He declared that to attain this goal the Communists
resorted to '"inflannnatory" tactics of "goading the South" and "rabble
12        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

rousing." As soon as some tentative agreement would be reached
with the State authorities, he said, "a group of Communists would
come down and picket the courthouse and negotiations would be called
off."
     He
      mentioned the fact that the Communists organized a picket
line around a Madison Square Garden meeting arranged by the
National Council for a Permanent FEPC, because it was not held
under their auspices.
  He also described obstructive Communist picketing while negotia-
tions were going on for the hiring of Negro players by major-league
baseball clubs.
                               THOMAS W. YOUNG
  The next witness was Thomas W. Young, president and publisher
of the Guide Publishing Co., Inc., publishers of the Journal and Guide,
a weekly newspaper circulated principally in Virginia and North
Carolina.
  Mr. Young held that by and large           —
the machinery which we in this country have embraced for the realization of
our declared way of life is, nevertheless, accomplishing, however slowly, tlie
most cherished aspirations of the Negro group.
He     felt that   Paul Robeson   —
isnow so far out of touch with the Negro's thinking and his everyday emotions
that he can no longer siieak authoritatively about or for the race. His distant
travels and his latter-day preoccupations with the affairs of the Soviets have
broken the bond he once held with the Negro mind.

                               LESTER   B.   GRANGER

  On July 14, 1949, the committee heard Lester B. Granger, executive
director of the National Urban League, a social-service agency with
branches in 29 States and the District of Coliunbia. He, too, empha-
sized the meagerness of Communist influence among Negroes. In
New York's Harlem, for example, which is overwhelmingly Negro,
he pointed out that the Communist-supported candidate for President,
Henry A. Wallace, had received only 14 percent of the total vote cast.
He said a similar situation was reflected in Negro districts in Chicago.
     The Communist Party   —
he declared    —
seeks to establish among Negroes and the rest of the world the illusion of an
influence they actually never hope to attain.   *  *  *   gudj an impression,
                               *  * *
skillfully established, would         obviously strengthen the hand of Moscow
in power politics the world over.

  Mr. Granger described the methods employed by Communists in
penetrating Negro organizations as follows             :




   Their methods are to go into an organization if there is a fee, to pay the fee
                                                 ;
                                                                                  ;

if activity is the measure of membership, to be very active   ; but by one means
or other to get a large number of members to go in and to gravitate, generally
not to the presidency or highest post, but to some minor post that is a good look-
out post, and then at various points to exert open or covert control that will keep
the movement going along Communist Party policy, or at least not opposed to it.
           REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                             13

                                   DR.   CHARLES    S.   JOHNSON
  Mr. Granger was followed by Dr. Charles S. Johnson, president of
Fisk University and author of a number of works on racial relations,
education, and the South. Dr. Johnson held that
                                                                   —
rhe Negroes are rooted in this country, in the life of this country, and they seek
                                                     *  *   *
their fortunes and futures here; and they feel                 ^^j^jj^ ^^ jg infinitely

better to rest their case with the internal correction of their grievances than to
fly to fates unknown, untested.

                                           C. B.   CLARK

   Mr. C. B. Clark, of Pittsburgh, Pa., the next witness, is a descendant
of a fighter in the Continental Army in tlie days of the American
Revolution, and himself a disabled veteran. It was his opinion that                  —
a vast majority of Negroes have no respect for Russia, no love for communism,
nor belief in any foreign ideology.

                          JACK     c' Jackie")     roose\'elt robinson

  On July 18, Idld, the committee heard Jack Roosevelt Robinson,
famous second baseman for the Brooklyn Dodgers, recently voted the
most valuable ballplayer of the year. His historic statement was
reprinted with acclaim by the press of the entire country. In sharp
contrast to Paul Robeson, who arrogated to himself the right to speak
in behalf of 15,000,000 Xegroes in the United States, Mr. Robinson
declared       :




          speak for any 15,000,000 people any more than any other one person
     I can't
can, but I know that I've got too much invested for my wife and child and
myself in the future of this country, and I and other Americans of many races
and faiths have too much invested in our country's welfare, for any of us to
throw it away because of a siren song sung in bass. I am a religious man.
Therefore, I cherish America where I am free to worship as I please, a privilege
which some countries do not give. And I suspect that 999 out of almost any
thousand colored Americans you meet will tell you the same thing.

                                      MANNING JOHNSON
  Manning Johnson, who appeared on July 14, 1949, was formerly a
member of the national committee of the Communist Party and a
member of its Negro commission. He received special training in one
of the party's conspiratorial schools. He is now an AFL organizer.
  Johnson identified Paul Robeson as a secret member of the Com-
munist Party, who has ambitions to '^be the Black Stalin among
Negroes.'- According to Johnson, Robeson's contacts                      were restricted
to the higher echelons of the party.
     Asix-page record of Paul Robeson's Communist affiliations was
included in the appendix to these hearings.
  Mr. Jolmson said he turned against the ])arty for four reasons: (1)
Because the party was antireligious; (2) because it stood for the es-
tablishment of a separate Negro republic by armed revolt; (3) because
of its callousness and insincerity in the Scottsboro case; (4) because
of its support of the Stalin-Hitler pact.
  ]\Ir. Johnson introduced into the record a
 ^                                              comprehensive list of
Communist-front organizations utilized by the party for activity
among Negroes.
         62106     — 50    3   '
14      REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                        RABBI BEKJAMIN SCHIJLTZ

  Rabbi Benjamin Scliultz, national executive director of the Ameri-
can Jewish League Against Communism, appeared before the com-
mittee on July 13, 1949. He presented 27 exhibits from the Communist
press to show how it seeks to incite the Jewish people against the
United States. Some illustrative headlines were: "American air-
planes against Jewish immigrants"; "Nuremberg in Washington";
"They arrest only Negroes and Jews." Rabbi Schultz also presented
examples of anti-Semitic literature of the Communists, including the
Moscow Pravda for March 5, 1949, and two cartoons from the New
York Morning Freiheit. He placed into the record a list of the
I)rincipal Communist-front organizations operating among the Jews.

               COMMUNIST-FRONT ORGANIZATIONS
  From its inception the committee has devoted considerable atten-
tion to the exposure of Communist-front organizations. As a result,
a number of these organizations were rendered ineffectual and in some
cases were dissolved.

        SCIENTiriC   AND CULTURAL CONFERENCE FOR WORLD PEACE
  With considerable fanfare, the Scientific and Cultural Conference
forWorld Peace staged its meetings at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in
New York City on March 25, 26, and 27, 1949. In a report subsequently
issued, the committee showed that this was part of a so-called "world
peace movement" under Communist auspices. Instead of promoting
peace, however, it was intended to provide a forum against the Mar-
shall plan, the North Atlantic Pact and other aspects of American
foreign policy, and to provide a forum to support Soviet foreign
policy, to incite civil disobedience and to discredit American art and
culture in favor of the Soviet productions. The committee presented
the Communist affiliations of the sponsors of the conference in detail.
  Published on the eve of the Communist-inspired World Peace Con-
gress in Paris on April 20-23, 1949, the report was utilized for infor-
mational purposes by the State Department and was roundly de-
nounced by Moscow. It was widely circulated in colleges throughout
the United States.
                        AMERICAN SLAV CONGRESS
  On June 26, 1949, the committee published a comprehensive report
on the American Slav Congress, a Communist front affiliated with
the All-Slav Congress in Moscow. This organization spreads Soviet
propaganda directed at the 10,000,000 Slavic-Americans in this
country.
   The report traced the history of the organization, its activities, the
Communist affiliations of its leaders, the various supporting Commu-
nist organizations and publications, and the collaboration of various
Communist embassies. The report showed that the objectives of this
organization were primarily military, being directed toward the sub-
version of millions of Slavic-Americans emploj'ed in our basic indus-
tries.  Included in the report were examples of subversive, anti-
American and pro-Soviet propaganda       in affiliated foreign-language
newsj^apers.
          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                          15

  Among those whose Communist records were included in the report
was George Pirinsky, also known as Nicholas I. Zaikoff, and George
Necoloff. Pirinsky ^is now under $5,000 bail after being arrested for
                                                          the United
deportation on charges of advocating the overthrow of
States   Government by      force   and   violence.

                         CONGRESS OF AMERICAN         WOMEN
  On     October 23, 1949, the committee published a report on the Con-
gress of    American Women,          affiliate   of the   Women's      International
Democratic Federation.         The Congress was           identified    by the com-
mittee as   —
            arm of Soviet political warfare in the current "peace" campaign to
a specialized
disarm and demobilize the United States and democratic nations generally in
order to render them helpless in the face of the Communist drive for world
conquest.
  The Soviet control of the Women's International Democratic Fed-
eration was traced from its inception in 1915 to the present date.
Communist or Connnunist-f ront affiliations of the outstanding leaders
of the Congress of American Women were listed.          These leaders
included Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, Margaret Undjus Krumbein, Muriel
Draper, Susan B. Anthony II, Gene Weltiish, Clara Bodian, Claudia
Jones, and others.
   The type of pressure employed by this organization and its close
adherence to the line of the Communist Party were described in some
detail.  Copies of the report Avere distributed among the principal
women's organizations       in this country.

                   SOUTHERN CONEERENCE FOR         HUMAN WELFARE
  The committee on June 12, 1947, published a report exposing the
Communist nature of the Southern Conference for Human Welfare.
These findings were supplemented on jNIay 6, 1949, through the testi-
mony of Paul Crouch. Crouch, as former southern organizer for the
Communist Party and an active participant in the Southern Confer-
ence, related how this front organization had been subsidized and
directed by the Communists from its first meeting. This organization
is no longer
        ^&^  in existence.

                             IN     RETROSPECT
  The committee would like to remind the Congress that its work is
part of an 11-year continuity of effort that began with the establish-
ment of a Special Committee on Un-American Activities in August
1938. The committee would also like to recall that at no time in those
11 years has it ever wavered from a relentless pursuit and exposure
of the Communist fifth column. In many instances in the past, how-
ever, the positions taken b}^ the committee on certain questions were
not immediately supported. The committee had to wait upon the
course of history for some of its findings to be legally substantiated.
We would herewith list some of these instances as applied to 1949.
                         TWEE'S^ COMMUNIST LEADERS

  In   its first   annual report, dated January  3, 1939, the Special         Com-
mittee on    Un-American      Activities aiuilvzed the nature of the          Com-
16      REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

munist movement on the basis of           its   investigations and found tliat
the Communist Party       —
seeks ultimately the overthrciw of the American form of govemmpnt *             *  *

and   *  *   *  rests upon hrutal violence despite its present dishonest professions
of belief in the process of democracy.

  Year after year the committee reiterated this warning to the Ameri-
can public, and on May 11, 1948, it published the most comprehensive
study of this aspect of the Communist movement ever made by any
Federal agency. Tliis study, heitvily documented, was published under
the title, "Report on the Communist Party of the United States as an
Advocate of Overthrow of Government by Force and Violence."
  On Jidy 20, 1048, 12 leaders of the Connnunist Party of the United
States were indicted by a Federal grand jury in Xew York on charges
of conspiring to "teach and advocate the overthrow or destruction of
tlieGovernment of the United States by force and violence." Eleven
of them were convicted on those charges in Federal court on October
14, 1949.
                                 HARRY BRIDGES
  In its annual report of January 3, 1939. the Special Committee on
Un-American Activities urged that deportation proceedings be "vigor-
ously and promptly" prosecuted against Harry Bridges. It declared
that Bridges   —
was a Communist    alien, that he belonged to an organization which preaches the
overthrow of the United States (Tovernment by force and violence; that he him-
self advocated the overthrow of the Governmi'ut by force and violence; and that
he had likewise advocated sabotage.

  Harry Bridges was successful in obtaining American citizenship in
1945. But on May 25, 1949, he was indicted by a Federal grand jury
on charges of conspiracy and perjury in connection with his obtaining
citizenship. His trial is still in progress.

                   JOINT ANTI-FASCIST REFUGEE COMMITTEE

  The Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, headed by Dr. Edward
K. Barsky, w^as cited as a Communist-front organization by the Special
Committee on Un-American Activities on March 29, 1944. On Decem-
ber 4, 1947, and September 21, 1948, Attorney General Tom Clark
cited the same organization as subversive and Communist.   The organ-
ization complained against this citation to the United States District
Court in the District of Columbia which dismissed the plea. On
August 11, 1949, the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia upheld this decision.
   For refusing to produce books and records subpenaed by the com-
mittee in 1946, Dr. Barsky and 17 other leaders of the Joint Anti-
Fascist Refugee Committee were cited for contempt of Congress.
Each one was convicted in Federal court, and only two convictions
were reversed in appellate court. Convictions w^ere reversed by the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in the
case of Miss Helen R. Bryan, executive secretary, and Mrs. Ernestina
G. Fleischmann, executive committee member, on the ground that
a quorum of the committee was not present at all times during the
committee hearings. The Government has petitioned the Supreme
Court for a rehearing.
        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                      17

                              GERHART EISLER
  Tlie committee in 1947 exposed Gerhart Eisler as the No. 1 leader
of the Communist International in the United States and, as such,
the on-the-spot boss of the Connnunist Party in this country. As an
outgrowth of committee hearings, Eisler was convicted in court in
1948 on charges of passport fraud and conteuipt of Congress. While
on bail, pending appeal, Eisler succeeded in escaping the country
aboard the Polish steamshij), the Batory^ in May 1949. He was
immediately awarded a prominent post in the Communist govern-
ment of eastern (Terniany. This further corroborates the committee's
early Avarning that Eisler's pose as a harmless refugee was mere
cover for an assignment as a top Communist International agent.

                           THE HISS CONVICTION
   While this report was in the process of preparation, the trial of
Alger Hiss, formerly a highly placed Government official, for commit-
ting perjury before a Federal grand jury in 1948 was brought to a
conclusion.   On January 21, 1950, Alger Hiss was convicted on two
separate and distinct counts of perjury. One of these counts involved
a statement made before the Federal grand jury by Alger Hiss that he
had not seen David Whittaker Chambers, a self-confessed Soviet
espionage agent, after the year 1937. The other count involved Hiss'
denial before the same grand jury that he had ever furnished any
State Department documents to David Whittaker Chambers.
   The name of xVlger Hiss was first brought to the attention of the
American public by the Committee on Un-American Activities. This
case was reopened by the committee in 1948, almost 10 years after the
name of Alger Hiss had l^een furnished to United States Government
officials by Chambers as being a member of a Communist cell which
had as its purpose the infiltration of the Government.
   After an extensive investigation had been conducted by the com-
mittee and the Federal Bureau of Investigation during the year 1948,
the Department of Justice presented the Hiss matter to the Federal
grand jury in New York City, ultimately leading to the conviction of
Alger Hiss for perjury.
                     COMMUNIST-DOMINATED UNIONS
  In its report of IMarch 29, 1944, the Special Committee on Un-Amer-
ican Activities cited the following unions in the Congress of Industrial
                                                         *   *   *
Organizations as having "Communist leadership                        strongly
entrenched"  :




American Coinmunicatious Association.
International Federation of Architects, Engineers, Chemists, and Technicians
   (since merged into the United Office and Professional Workers of America).
International Fur and Leather Workers Union.
International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union.
International Union of Fishermen and Allied Workers of America.
International Union of IMine, Mill, and Smelter Workers.
Marine Cooks and Stewards Association of the Pacific Coast.
State, County, and jNIunicipal Workers of America.
United Federal Workers of America.
    (Latter two since merged into the United Puldic Workers of America.)
18     REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

United Cannery, Agricultural, Packing and Allied Workers of America (now-
  known as tlie Food, Tobacco, Agricultural, and Allied Workers).


United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America.
United Farm Equipment and Metal Workers of America.
United Furniture Workers of America.
United Oflfice and Professional Workers of America.
   At a convention of the CIO in November 1949, two of the above
unions, the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of Amer-
ica, and the United Farm Equipment and Metal Workers of America,
were expelled from the CIO on charges of being Communist-con-
trolled.  The remaining unions cited by the committee are under
investigation by the national CIO, which has charged them with
following the Communist Party line. They are facing possible expul-
sion from the CIO.
   The Special Committee on Un-American Activities, in the same
report of March 29, 1944, also presented the Communist affiliations
of the following members of the CIO executive board         :




Harry Bridges,   president, International Longshoremen's   and Warehousemen's
  Union.
Joseph Selly, president, American Communications Association.
Donald Henderson, president. Food, Tobacco, Agricultural, and Allied Workers
  of America.
Abram Flaxer, president. United Public Workers of America.
Joseph F. Jurich, president, International Union of Fishermen and Allied
  Workers of America.
  These men are also now under charges by the CIO executive board
that they have followed the Communist Party line.

                    FILES OF THE COMMITTEE
  During the year 1949, more than 300,000 pieces of material have
been added to the voluminous files of the committee. Such additions
have ranged from official documents, photostats, periodicals, and
pamphlets issued by subversive organizations, circular letters and
directives of the Communist Party, to crudely lettered handbills an-
nouncing meetings and programs of subversive groups. Each piece
of material has been carefully analyzed, classified, and indexed.
  The files of the committee compose one of the most comprehensive
records in the United States concerning individuals active in subver-
sive groups, the programs and aims of un-American organizations,
and their propaganda methods. This vast reference collection con-
tains information and documentary evidence unearthed by the com-
mittee in its investigations and studies of subversive groups during
the past 11 years, records compiled by other investigative agencies,
data from the files of law-enforcement agencies in various States, and
evidence submitted by some 1,100 witnesses who have testified before
the committee in public and executive hearings.
  The committee has painstakingly accumulated and carefully pre-
served more than a million documents and records covering un-Ameri-
can activities in this country during the past quarter of a century. In
volume, the collection has grown from 2 file cabinets in 1938 to more
than 200 today. Constantly expanding, it is made up largely of irre-
placeable documents and records. It has been consulted by more than
20,000 Government agents and officials.
        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                 19

  The   collection has served as a basis for    much of the committee's
investigative  work.    As source material, it has been invaluable in the

exposure of foreign agents, Communist infiltration, espionage, and
the nature of subversive movements. It has served as a means of in-
forming the American people of the menace to national security which
lies in the efforts of subversive individuals and groups.
   During the year 1949, some 75,000 cards were added to the consoli-
dated card records of the committee, which now contain 470,000 card
references to activities and affiliations of individuals. These cards
serve as an index to source material contained in periodicals, hearings,
reports, pamphlets, and miscellaneous exhibit material in file.
   In 1949, the committee heard 1,749 pages of testimony presented by
the 60 witnesses who testified in public hearings, and the 34 who testi-
fied in executive hearings.    Staff members have compiled indexes to
the public testimony and the four reports issued by the committee
during the period which contain references to 4,G57 individuals and
3,171 organizations.
  A  total of 52,878 references to individuals and 11,764 references to
organizations appear in indexes to public hearings. held by the com-
mittee during the past 11 years and the 64 reports which have been
issued.  These indexes and the consolidated card record file facilitate
investigative work by members of the staff and authorized personnel
from other agencies. Reports compiled by staff investigators paral-
leling the work of the committee have been indexed.        These contain
thousands of references to prewar and wartime subversive activities
of Nazi, Fascist, and Japanese groups, and information concerning
Communist activities in the United States. References to 15,825 or-
ganizations appear in these reports. Documentary evidence accumu-
lated by staff investigators has been useful to many Federal agencies.
   In the course of its investigations into aims and organization of the
Communist Party in the United States, the committee has made avail-
able a large, completely indexed, and readily accessible reference col-
lection of lists of signers of Connnunist Party election petitions, which
is consulted daily by investigators from various Government agencies
as well as staff members. These lists, obtained from original petitions
or photostatic copies of original petitions, contain 363,119 signatures
for various years in 20 States.
   Of the 363,119 signatures, some 335.660 have been indexed and
printed by the committee. The committee has published printed lists
of signers of election petitions of the Communist Party for 1940 in the
following States Arizona, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana,
                 :



Kansas, Kentucky, INIaryland, Michigan, Xew Hampshire, New Jersey,
New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, West
Virginia, and Wisconsin.
  The following Communist Party election petitions have been
indexed by the committee: California. 1932, 1934, 1936, and 1938;
1942 petitions in Colorado and New York; 1946 petitions in Colorado,
Connecticut, Michigan, and Pennsvlvania     New York Citv, 1936,
                                               ;

1939. 1940,  and 1945; Philadelphia,"^1941 and 1946. Lists of signers
which have not been published by the committee have been indexed
and filed in the consolidated card records file.
  Throughout the year, individual files have been maintained on
some 3,500 leaders of the Communist Party and its various front or-
ganizations, and individuals active in Fascist movements.
20       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  New material lias been added td the huge accumulation of informa-
tion concernino; thousands of oroanizations in existence in the United
States.   Such additions have involved constant research by staff
members to ascertain the aims and purposes of new organizations and
a constant check of old organizations which appear in new guises.
In many instances throughout the year, source material on file has
served to expose deceptively labeled Communist-front groups seeking
to gain control of civic and youth organizations.
  In investigations concerning the diffusion of subversive and un-
American propaganda in the United States, the committee has t^c-
quired a highly specialized collection of periodicals and pamphlets
which serve as a valuable source of information in the study of motives
and policies of subversive groups. Much of the collection, which
dates from 1923, is irreplaceai)le. It contains copies of pul)lications
issued by Fascist, Nazi, and Japanese groups, and hundreds of pub-
lications issued by the Communist Party and its front organizations.
  Each month, about 1,000 issues of the major Communist publica-
tions and other periodicals and newspapers have been indexed and
added to the files, which now contain various issues of more than 650
publications. In the collection are issues of more than 90 periodicals
published by the Communist Party or its front organizations.
  More than 300 pamphlets and books written by leaders of subvei-sive
groups or issued by subversive organizations were cataloged and
added to the 5,000 in file. Translations of publications recently issued
by the Communist Party in many countries have been added along
with early publications of the Communist Party of the ITnited
States.   Included in the large collection are numerous handbooks
outlining propaganda techniques and methods to be used by Com-
munist groups posing as champions of minorities and friends of youth.
This collection has served to expose the cleverly camouflaged recruit-
ing techniques of the Communist Party and its myriad front organi-
zations, and the dissemination of totalitarian propaganda masked by
democratic labels.
  The committee has acquired numerous additions to its large refer-
ence collection of hearings held by other agencies investigating sub-
version and reports issued by such groups.
  Hundreds of dossiers have been compiled from information in file
for use of connnittee members and staff employees in connection with
reports and investigations during the year. Information has been
furnished to Members of Congress, other congressional committees,
and numerous agencies in the executive branch of the Government.
  In 1949, staff members compiled reports on the subversive affiliations
of 2,473 individuals and 597 reports on the nature of various organ-
izations for the use of  Members of Congress. These compilations in-
cluded   allinformation found in the public files, records, and publica-
tions of the committee concerning the individuals and organizations.
   In Presidential Executive Order 9835, dated March 21, 1947, the
files of the committee were designated as one of the pertinent sources
of. information to be checked in determining the loyalty of Federal
employees and applicants for Federal employment. In this connec-
tion, a number of liaison agents have been regularly assigned to the
files section of the committee throughout the year, where, on the aver-

age, each agent has checked for information concerning 200 or more
            HEPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES             21

Tiidividuals daily.    Many other agents have made periodic visits in
connection ^yith the loyalty program and security checks.
   From January 1 through December 31, 1949, liaison agents from
Government agencies made 3,956 visits to the files section. During'
these visits, they consulted the consolidated cards, records, indexes, and
other i-eference sources for information concerning more than half a
million individuals.
   During the year, staff members have consolidated records and re-
organized a large volume of material to make information on file more
readily accessible to accredited agents, who make their own checks of
<}onimittee publications and the consolidated card-recoixi file.        In
the course of such checks, however, agents often wish to study source
material.
   The conunittee has been able to supply hundreds of exhibits unavail-
able elsewhere for use of investigative agents in connection with the
lo3'alty program.   Staff members furnish such exhibits, periodicals,
and other reference material requested, answer inquiries, and are often
requested to supply information concerning organizations.
  The files of the committee were consulted by representatives of va-
rious investigative units of the following agencies during the year:
          Riu-efiu of the Census.
          Central Intelligence Agency.
          Civil Aeronautics Board.
          Department of Agriculture.
          Department of the Air Force.
          Department of the Army.
          Department of Commerce.
          Department of Justice.
          Department of Labor.
          Department of the Navy.
          Department of State.
          Department of the Treasury.
          Economic Cooperation Administration.
          Federal Bureau of Investigation.
          Federal Conununications Commission.
          Federal Power Commission.
          Metropolitan Police Department.
          National Labor Ilelations Board.
          Securities and Exchange Commission.
          United States Civil Service Commission.
          United States Coast Guard.
          United States Secret Service.
  Material pertinent to investigations made by Government agencies
during the year has been loaned to these groups for brief periods for
photostating. The committee has also furnished such agencies with
a large number of photostatic copies of exhibits in   file.


                     DISTRIBUTIOX OF PUBLICATIONS
     The j;pmmittee has long
                           believed that a broad program of education
is invaluable in the fight against comnmnism. The committee feels
that if the American citizens who are inclined to be influenced by com-
munism were cognizant of its principles, aims, and methods, they
would reject this ideology so foreign to the concepts of our democratic
society.
     As   part of  program, close to two million copies of commit-
                         tliis
tee publications were distributed during 1949 by the committee staff
and such other agencies as the Government Printing Office.
          62106   — 50      4
22          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Receiving the largest distribution was a series of            five   question-and-
answer pamphlets issued originally in 1948 and dealing with "100'
Things You Should    Know About Communism in the U. S. A. * * *
and Religion * * * and Education * * * and Labor * * *
and Government." Demands for this series, which exceeded the com-
bined requests for all other committee publications issued since 1938,.
were not satisfied by the distribution of 000,000 copies in 1948. A reso-
lution passed early in 1949 authorized a reprint of 250,000 additional
copies of each pamphlet in the series. For reasons of economy, they
were bound as one volume, including the pamphlet. Spotlight on Spies^
referred to earlier in this report. Half of the 250,000 additional
copies were allotted to Members of the House and the remaining half
were distributed by the committee staff, with only a small part of the
demand being met.
  In addition to the publication. Spotlight on Spies, the committee
released the following other new publications in 1949            :




Documentary Testimony of Gen.          Izyatlor Modelski,March 31 and April 1, 1949.
Soviet Espionage Activities in Connection Witli         Jet Propulsion and Aircraft,
  June 6, 1949.
Hearings Regarding Steve Nelson, June 8, 1949.
Hearings Regarding Toma Babin, May 27 and July 6, 1949.
Testimony of Paul Crouch, May 6, 1949.
Testimony of Philip O. Keeney and Mary Jane Keeney and Statement Regarding
  Their Background, May 24 and 25, and June 9, 1949.
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Radiation Laboratory and Atomic
  Bomb  Project at the Universitv of California, Berkeley, Calif., vol. 1, April
        May 25, June 10 and 14, 1949.
  22, 26,
Hearings Regarding Clarence Hiskey Including Testimony of Paul Crouch, May
  24, 1949.
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Minority Groups
                                                            —Part          1,      July 13,
        and    18, 1949.
  14,
                                                            —
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Minority Groups Part          2,      July 14,
  1949.
                                                            —
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Labor Unions Part                 1    (IIBR-
  MWA) August         and
                      9, 10, 1949.
                                 11,
                                                           —
Hearings Regarding Communism in the District of Columbia Part             1,    June    28,
  29,   July   6,12, and 28, 1949.
Review                              Conference for World Peace.
            of the Scientific and Cultural
Report on the American Slav Congress.
Report on Atomic Espionage (Nelson-Weinberg and Hiskey-Adams cases).
Report on the Congress of American "Women.
Statement of J. Edgar Hoover (reprint of earlier testimony).
  The committee received a total of 111,681 copies of these new publi-
cations listed above and the committee to date has filled requests for
approximately 52,000 copies. In addition, approximately 25,000
copies of material released in previous years has been distributed since
January 3, 1949.
  When a new publication is released by the committee a copy of it is
inailed to the Members of both Houses.        This office answers daily
many requests from Members of Congress for various other informa-
tion as well as for committee publications.
  The committee has    also complied with publication requests from
foreign countries, including  New Zealand, Turkey, the Philippines,
Cuba, Brazil, Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, Germany, France, the Domini-
can Republic, the Virgin Islands, England, the Fiji Islands, British
West Africa, and Japan.
  Numerous copies of committee publications are sold annually by
the Government Printing Office. The following is a break-down of
those sold last year       :
        REPORT OF COMAUTTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       23

  Committee on Un-American Activities piiNications sold by the Oovernment
                            Printing Office in 19.^9

100 Things You Should Know About Communism in the U. S. A              117, 273
100 Things You Should Know About Communism and Religion                 57, 182
100 Things You Should Know About Communism and Education                41, 169
100 Things You Should Know About Communism and Labor                    61,351
100 Things You Should Know About Communism and Government               33, 439
100 Things You Should Know About Communism (Series Bound To-
  gether with Spotlight on Spies)                                        8,116
Spotlight on Spies                                                       8,971
Hearings Regarding Communist Espionage in the United States Gov-
  ernment                                                                    60
Hearings Regarding Communist Espionage in the United States Gov-
  ernment, Part II                                                           75
Report on Soviet Espionage Activities in Connection with the Atom
  Bomb                                                                      580
Interim Report on Communist Espionage in the United States Govern-
  ment                                                                      299
Soviet Espionage Within the United States Government                        254
Citations by Official Government Agencies of Organizations and Publi-
  cations found to be Communist or Communist Fronts        .
                                                                         6, 933
Documentary Testimony of General Izyador Modelski                           294
Soviet Espionage Activities in Connection with Jet Propulsion and Air-
  craft                                                                      28
Report of the Committee on Un-American Activities to the United States
  House of Representatives, Eightieth Congress                              500
Review of the Scientific and Cultural Conference for World Peace         2, 004
Report on the American Slav Congress                                        208
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Radiation Laboratory
  and Atomic Bomb Project at the University of California, Berkeley,
  California, Part 1                                                         11

                                                                   —
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Minority Groups. Part 2_
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Labor Unions, Part 1
                                                                             25
                                                                             10
Hearings Regarding Communism in the District of Columbia, Part 1              5
Report on the Congress of American Women                                     38

      Total                                                            338, 825


                        EECOMMENDATIOXS
   Looking back upon 4 years' experience as a standing committee of
the House of Representatives and almost 7 years as a special commit-
tee, we feel more than ever impressed with the insidiousness and vast-
ness of the ramifications of the Communist movement and the urgent
necessity for unflagging efforts to expose and curb its machinations.
To further the effectiveness of these investigations and to curb the sub-
versive activities of the Communist Party, United States of America,
its agents and its dupes, the committee recommends the following
action by the incoming House of Representatives        :



   1. The statute of limitations in espionage cases must be amended.
Under our present laws we have found that a long list of Communist
operatives who have committed acts of espionage and treachery in the
interest of a foreign power have remained immune to punishment due
to the present form of the statute of limitations.
   2. The nature of modern war        —
                                      the fact that nations find them-
selves confronted nowadays with undeclared but actual warfare               —
makes it necessary that the legal definition of treason, and the penalties
attached thereto, be broadened to cover a period like the present cold
war.
24          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  3. Experience during the past 5 years has demonstrated that the
embassies of Communist-dominated countries constitute a focal point
of Communist espionage and propaganda. Such activity should be
limited by proper safeguards sternly enforced.
  4. H. R. 3903 providing safeguards against the employment of
subversive individuals in defense plants should be adopted.
  5. H. R. 10 providing for the supervision and detention of unde-

portable aliens should be enacted into law in order to deal with thou-
sands of alien Communists refused acceptance by the country of their
birth.
  6.   It   would be advantageous   to enact legislation creating a presump-
tion of law that a committee        quorum, once established, continues to
exist.
  7.   Effective action against the well-coordinated, interlocking    Com-
munist network requires the utmost teamwork among branches of the
Government. Petty rivalry or separatism can only work to the ad-
vantage of the Communists. A small bit of information in the hands
of one agency may well be the missing link of an entire chain of evi-
dence in the hands of another agency. Hence, the committee recom-
mends the fullest cooperation between legislative and executive arms
of the Government in the matter of dealing with subversive activities.
Modification of the Executive order in loyalty and investigative
cases is i-ecommended for consideration.
   8. In a number of cases we have found that subversive elements will
submit information to one arm of the Government when it suits their
purpose and will withhold it from another. Communist trade union-
ists will deny their affiliations before the National Labor Relations
Board and refuse to affirm or deny them before a congressional com-
mittee. They will deny them in filling out Form 57 in applying for
Federal employment and refuse to affirm or deny such affiliations be-
fore this committee. It is highly necessary that the Department of
Justice take effective action against those who would make a tragic
joke of law enforcement. Here, again, there is room for maximum co-
operation between the legislative and executive arms of Government.
  9. In connection with national defense contracts involving secret
and classified work for the Atomic Energy Commission, the iVrmy,
Navy, and Air Force, legislation should be enacted which subjects
officers of national labor unions having bargaining contracts to the
same security standards as members who have access to secret or
classified material.
                               APPENDIXES

                                    APPENDIX            I

  The Communist problem is comparatively new in the field of Ameri-
can jurisprudence. This accounts for the paucity of literature regard-
ing communism in the field of law. In fact, there are evidences of
confusion on the subject even among leading members of our legal
profession who have not had the time and the opportunity to apply
themselves to an intensive study of this complicated subject. The
committee has therefore decided to append to this report a digest of
existing National and State legislation on subversive activities which
was made by the Maryland State rommission on Subversive Activities,
under the chairmanship of Frank B. Ober.
  We hope thereby to stimulate fruitful discussion on this vital subject
in law journals and law schools, and among National and State legis-
lators and law-enforcement officers.^

Excerpts Fkum Report of Commission ox Subversive Activities, Maryland,
                              January 1949       (pp. 72-99)

                                          in general

   Statutes against snbrersive activities have their origin in the treason lavrs of
the United States, enacted in 1790, and date back to the Civil War on a state
level.  With the advent of the recent world conflict, and during the period of
unrest which has followed in its wake, there has been an increasing tendency
on the part of the State Legislatures and of the Congress to enact legislation
designed to suppress foreign propaganda and subversive activities.
   In addition to the treason laws, general statutes against conspiracy and incite-
ment to crime, and various war measures found in many states, the legislative
approach to this problem has assumed a variety of forms. These include                     :



general sedition, criminal anarchy, and criminal syndicalism laws            statutes
                                                                                  ;



against the display of sjTiibols denoting sympathy with the ideals or forms of
government inimical to American concepts, commonly called red-tlag laws;
statutes designed to suppress the activities of political parties and candidates who
are antagonistic to the American form of government; legislation requiring
teachers, public officers, employees and others to subscribe to oatlis of loyalty to
support state and federal constitutions and various measures penalizing or with-
                                             ;



holding privileges from persons or organizations guilty of subversive activities.

     1
    Since the report of the Maryland Commission on Subversive Activities was released
in  January 1949 various State legislatures have shown increasing concern with the
problem of communism. According to Newsweek. April 11, 1949, p. 24. for example:
   "The New York State Legislature passed a bill directing the State Board of Regents to
purge the public schools of teachers with subversive leanings.
   "The Texas Legislature passed a bill instructing the presidents of all State-supported
colleges to expel all Communist students and teachers.
   "In Kansas, a bill passed making 'subversive activities' punishable by fines and jail
sentences.
  "The Illinois Legislature prepared to pass bills making it a crime to be a Communist,
and barring Communists as teachers from the schools.
  "In New Jersey four bills barring disloyal persons from State jobs seemed sure to pas.s.
  "In Georgia and New Mexico, new laws were on the books barring subversives from
holding public jobs.
  "Similar legislation was on the   way   in Missouri, Oregon, Connecticut,   New Hampshire,
and California."
                                                                                      25
26          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

One or more   of these types of measures have been enacted in practically every
state. Maryland, however, stands virtually alone in the respect it has, at the
moment, practically no legislation touching any of these matters.
  This digest endeavors to summarize all pertinent statutes of the United States
and of the several   states as they now exist.     Summaries of the general and
special laws, with citations, have been supplied and, for convenience, the material
has been arranged both by states and by subject matter.
   Questions of constitutionality and prolilems of administration and of enforce-
ment are not included herein. These matters are of utmost importance but are
left for consideration by the Commission.
   For convenience, tlu-ee appendices have been prepared as follows
                        —
       Appendix A Federal Statutes.
                                                                                    :




                        —
       Appendix B State Statutes By States. —
                        —                   —
       Appendix C State Statutes By Subject Matter.
   In addition thereto and for ready reference, a table of all state legislation
will be found on page 77.'

                                   GENEKAI, SUBVERSION       LAWS
  The general laws against subversive activities are usually designated as
sedition, criminal anarchy, and criminal syndicalism statutes. More than three-
fourths of the states have laws of one or more of these types, some liaving single
statutes including two or more thereof. This digest does not include sabotage
and related statutes of the other states, since Maryland enacted during the recent
war  the model sabotage statute proposed for State adoption and the Commission
has made recommendations with respect to its expiration date. Excluded also
are general conspiracy statutes which may be held to cover many types of sub-
version, laws against incitement to crime generally, and numerous other measures
effective during wartime only.
   The effect of these general laws against subversive activities is to penalize the
advocacy in any manner of the overthrow of the government of the United States
or of the state by force or violence, or by other unlawful means. It is true that
each of the statutes, by whatever name it is designated whether criminal    —
                                                     —
anarchy, criminal syndicalism, or sedition defines the term for its own purposes,
and there are numerous variations in the terminology used, but the practical
        each would probably be very similar. The statutory lines of distinction
effect of
between these different offenses is so fine as in many instances to be almost
indistinguishable.
Sedition
  Sedition might be termed a mild form of treason. Treason implies the use of
force or violence against the government, seeking its overthrow by levying war
or giving aid and comfort to its enemies. Sedition has a similar connotation,
but its objectives are sought by means of oral or printed utterances, or similar acts
by which the state is held in contempt, people are incited to flout its laws, and it is
made difficult for the state to carry out its inherent governmental functions. Open
violence is not involved, but the tranquillity of the state is disturbed.
  Although the terminology used in criminal syndicalism and criminal anarchy
statutes is relatively uniform, there is greater variance in the wording of sedition
laws. The Illinois sedition statute may be considered representative                    :


  "It shall be unlawful for any person openly to advocate, by word of mouth
or writing, the reformation or overthrow, by violence or any other unlawful
means, of the representative form of government now secured to the citizens of
the United States and the several states by the Constitution of the United States
and the constituions of the several states."
  Many of these laws also specifically include the uttering, writing, or publication
of abusive matter against the flag, military forces, or unifoi-ms of the nation,
when calculated to bring them into disrepute. In New Jersey, incidentally, the
sedition statute expressly penalizes the inciting of an insurrection among any
class or portion of the population.    See also the Virginia statute which prohibits
conspiracy for the incitement of violence between whites and negroes, and
vice versa.                                                                                 ;




  *
      Page 77   refers to original publication.   See pp. 29 and 30, this report.
         REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                           27

Criminal Anarchy
  Anarchism is the oldest of subversive ideologies and advocates the complete
-elimination of the state, usually by assassination of the heads thereof.   The
Alabama statutory definition might be considered typical of the various laws
on this subject :


   "Criminal anarchy is the doctrine that organized government should be over-
thrown by force or violence, or by assassination of the executive head or of the
executive officials of government, or by any unlawful means. The advocating of
such doctrine either by word of mouth or writing is a felony."
Criminal SjindicaUsm
   The main difference between anarchy and syndicalism is the fact that in
syndicalism class distinction is introduced. The latter is a type of trade-unionism
on an industry-wide basis. It advocates the class struggle between the worker
iind the property owner leading up to social revolution and collectivism.         The
workers are to gain control of each industry through strikes, sabotage, and the
boycott. It is a militant movement aimed at both the property owner and the
state.  The goal is a free and flexible system of autonomous syndicates in all
fields of production and distribution.     Each industry is to be managed by the
workers, then a federation of all fields of industry would be formed which in turn
Avould comprise the state.
   Criminal syndicalism statutes resemble a blend of criminal anarchy laws and
measures against incitement to insurrection. They include not only the political,
but also the industrial and economic splaeres. The Iowa definition may be
considered representative:
   "Criminal .syndicalism is the doctrine which advocates crime, sabotage, vio-
lence, or other unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing in-
dustrial or political reform. The advocacy of such doctrine, whether by word of
mouth or writing is a felony. * * *"
   Normally a definition of this type would seem to apply to very few of the
organizations which dare offer themselves to the American public. However,
the courts of last resort of at least two states have held the advocacy of the doc-
trines of the Communist Party to be within the purview of criminal syndicalism
statutes {People v. Ruthetihiirg (229 Mich. 315) State v. Boloff (138 Ore. 568)).
                                                  ;


   The most unusual criminal syndicalism statute is the Washington law which
is virtually equivalent to a sabotage measure.     It is directed specifically toward
a number of local industries, and it might be noted that Washington is the only
state having two separate laws against criminal anarchy and syndicalism.
Related Offenses
  Almost all of these types of general subversion statutes also declare it to be a
felony to join any organization or voluntarily to assemble with any group advo-
cating, justifying, or teaching subversive doctrines.     A number of laws also
prescribe a lighter penalty, usually punishment as a misdemeanor, for the owner
or person in charge of a building knowingly to permit it to be used for furthering
or advocating the unlawful overthrow of government. Persons who assemble
for such unlawful purposes whether they belong to the subversive organization
or espouse its doctrines, likewise are declared guilty of a misdemeanor.
  In most states having laws of these types the dissemination of the forbidden
doctrines in any manner is a felony. In North Carolina and New York, however,
the editors or proprietors of books or other printed matter are specifically made
chargeable for wilful publication of the matter contained therein. In North
Carolina the managers or other officials of the association by which such publica-
tion is issued are also guilty of the offense if knowingly committed.
  In addition to the above, several states require subversive organizations or
oath-bound societies to register with the state. Registration laws have been en-
acted in some of the states. In North Carolina, incidentally, political or military
organizations are absolutely forbidden, as is membership in such groups. South
Carolina also has an espionage law.
Penalties for Breach of Suhversion Laws
  Except as otherwise noted, violation of any of these laws against subversive
activities is declared to be a felony, punishable by fine or imprisonment in the
penitentiary, or both. Offenses considered less dangerous to the state are u.sually
declared to be misdemeanors, punishable by imprisonment in the county jail, a
smaller fine, or both. A few states also prescribe additional or unusual penalties
for persons violating statutes against subversive activities.
28       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TTN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   The most common additional penalty specified for violation of subversion laws-
deals with the employment of violators by the state. For example, in Washington,
no person convicted of criminal anarchy may be employed by the state or any de-
partment or subdivision thereof for a period of five years after conviction. Idi
Tennessee a person guilty of sedition is incapal)Ie of bearing any office of honor,,
trust, or profit in the state government for three years, and may be required to
give sureties for good behavior for as long as the court may require. In Illinois-
the compensation of state employees or officers is withheld for sedition, and sucht
persons are ineligible for state civil service appointments. In several other states-
conviction of a person for sedition will bar him from public employment or-
public office, or will be cause for his dismissal.
   A more striking penalty is that found in Pennsylvania. Persons there advocat-
ing and taking part in a movement to change the form of government, not in ac-
cord with the constitution, are ineligible to receive public assistance. New Jer-
sey also denies subversive individuals the right to obtain a court order establishr
iiig their date and place of birth.   Alaska, by the way, disbars attorneys engaged,
in such activities.

RGSum6 of General Subversion Laws
  As previously noted, although there    is a difference in the terminology used in*
the various state laws against subversive activities, the practical effect and;
the purpose of these measures would be very similar. They are intended to pro-
hibit and punish acts and utterances tending toward the overthrow of the Ameri-
can form of government by force or violence, or other unlawful means, or its
change in any manner not provided by our constitutions and laws. Although-
there are some variances in the extensiveness of the activities covered by these
statutes, such differences appear not to be of importance, and there is apparently
no outstanding examiile in any particular state of a complete measure for curb-
ing seditious activities. No statute has lieen found which would penalize sub-
versive activities not tending toward the unlawful overthrow of government^,
with the exception of tlie inclusion in some general sedition statutes of a prohibi-
tion on the advocacy of violence against a class of persons.
  In any attempt to draft comprehensive measures to cuili su)>versive activities^,
the Commission of course must weigh its proposals a.uainst constitutional guar-
antees of free speech, freedom of the press, and the right of lawful assemblage^

                      SPECIAL TYPES OF SUBVERSION LEGISLATION

   In addition to the general laws against sul)versive activities, a number of
states have subversion measures of more specific application.     For purposes of;
this memorandum, there might be included within this group the so-called red-
flag statutes, laws against subversive political parties and candidates for office
and loyalty-oath laws applying to teachers, public officers and employees, and.
others. As heretofore stated, a number of states also have laws making subver-
sive activities a reason for discharge of state employees, or prohibiting certifica-
tion of such persons for civil-service appointments.
Red Flag Laivs
  The most common      type of specific legislation designed to suppress the spreadi
of subversive activities are the red-fiag laws, found in most of the States.    These
measures prohiltit the display of certain flags and other emblems as symbols of
the advocacy or belief in revolution or radical activities antagonistic to the Ameri-
can form of government. The West Virginia statute is summarized as follows :
   "It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession or to display
any red or black flag, or to display any other flag, emblem, device, or sigu of any
natui'e whatever, indicating sympathy with or support of ideals, institutions, or
forms of government, hostile, inimical or antagonistic to the form or spirit of
the Constitution, laws, ideals, and institutions of this State or of the United
States."
   The statute, however, is somewhat broader than many laws of this type, since
it declares the mere possession of the prohibited emblem to be unlawful.         Ordi-
narily violations of these laws are punished by fine or imprisonment, or a com-
bination of both. Some states also have separate measures a.gainst the display
of alien fiags from public luiildings, and prohibitions against the wearing of'
foreign uniforms. Various laws effective during wartime only are also con-r-
tained in the statutes in a number of states.
            REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         29

Exclusion   From Ballot
  Legislation of more recent ori.uiu against subversive activities is directed at
political parties and candidates for public office advocating:
                                                                 doctrines inimical or
hostile to the American form of government, especially communism. The Illinois
provisions are perhaps representative of measures of this type:
   ••* *   *  no political organization or group shall be qualified as a political
party hereunder, or given a place on a ballot, which organization
                                                                          or group is
                                                                         or other un-
associated, directly or indirectly with Communist, Fascist, Nazi,
American principles and engages in activities or propaganda designed to teach,
suliservience to the political principles and ideals of foreign nations or the over-
throw by violence of the established constitutional form of government of the
United States and tlie State of Illinois."
  A few of the states got at this problem by outlawing certain organizations,
either bv name or bv principles.     Some go farther, and in addition require each
new pol'itical party "to tile an affidavit that it lacks affiliation with any foreign
or subversive organization, and that it does not advocate the unlawful overthrow
of the government. Other states attack not only the organization but the candi-
dates, prohibiting all candidates having subversive principles or affiliations from
appearing on the ballot.
Loijaltt/   Oath Statutes
  The                                         youth to revolutionary ideas, and the
        belief in the general susceptibility of
theory that they might be disseminated in the .schools and colleges has led to the
enactment of teacher loyalty oath laws, in a numl^er of states. These statutes
provide generally that it shall be unlawful for any person to teach in an educa-
tional institution unless such teacher first take an oath to support and defend
the Constitution of the United States and of the particular state. In Florida
and South Carolina, however, it is required that a prospective teacher satisfy
the examiners as to his loyalty to the Constitution, though apparently no oath is
necessary.
   A variety of penalties is provided for breach of these provisions. Some states,
such as New York, merely declare teaching without subscribing the oath to be
unlawful. Others invoke their perjury laws for giving false information. The
usual provision, however, is that a teacher failing to take the required oath is to
be denied employment. Fine or imprisonment is provided in some other states
for persons teaching without taking the prescribed oath. Provisions are also
found whereJjy the person in charge of an institution is to be lined for permitting
such persons to teach, and prohibiting the payment of public funds to a teacher
failing to take the required oath.
   In Vermont, in addition to the law prescriliing the loyalty oath for teachers,
there is a measure jirohibiting their engaging in propaganda or subversive ac-
tivities.  In New York there is a separate act forbidding the use of text books
containing .seditious matter in the public schools.
   While these loyalty oath statutes generally are directed toward school teachers,
in S(mie states they apply also to public officers and employees.     In still other
states regulatory measures of one form or another apply specifically to legislators
 (Arizona), presidential electors (Georgia), the state guard (Louisiana), and
state police (Utah).    In addition, a few of the states expressly forbid use of
school property or facilities for subversive activities.

                                  Table of State Legislation
                                  [X   indicates legislation   is   in effect]




             State




  See footnote at end of table.
        62106 —50     5
30   REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

              Table of State legislation     —Continued
                 [X indicates   legislation is in effect]




      State
          REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                   31

U. S., or to levy war against them, or to oppose by force the authority thereof,
or by force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the U. S.,
or by force to seize any property of the U. S. Penalty, not more than $5,000, or
not more than 6 years, or both.
   Rccruitinn For Service Against U. S. ( (1S61) IS U. S. C. A., Sect. 7).—Prohibits
recruiting soldiers or sailors with U. S. to engage in armed hostility against
the same, or opening within the U. S. a recruiting station for the purpose. Pen-
alt\-, not more than $1,000 and not more than 5 years.
   Enlistinn To Serve Aijainst The U. 8. {(ISrA) IS U. S. G. A., Sect. S).—
Every person enlisted or engaged within the U. S. with intent to serve in armed
hostility against the U. S. shall be fined $100 and imprisoned not more than
three (3) years.
   Undermining Loiialty, Discipline, or Morale of Armed Forces {(1940) 18
U. 8. C. A., Sect. 9).           —
                          Unlawful for any person, with intent to interfere with,
impair, or intluence the loyalty, morale, or discipline of the military or naval
forces of the U. S.          :




         (a) To advise or urge insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal
             of duty by any member of the military or naval forces of the U. S.
         (b) To distribute any written or printed matter or advising or urging.
         (c) Includes all branches of service, even merchant vessels commis-
             sioned in the Navy or in the service of the Army or Navy, including
             Master, Officers and crew of such vessels.
   Penalty, up to $10,000, or 10 years, or both, and ineligible for Federal employ-
ment    for    ")   years.
  Advocating Overthrow of Government                By Force   {(WJfO) IS U. 8. C. A., Sect.
    —
10). Unlawful for any person:
         (a)        Knowingly or wilfully   to advocate, teach, etc., the necessity or desira-
    bility ofoverthrowing or destroying any government in the U. S. by force or
    violence, or by tbe assassination of any officer of any such government.
       (b) With intent to cause the overthrow or destruction of any government
    in the U. S., to print, distribute, etc., any written or printed matter so
     advocating.
        (c) To organize or help to organize, or to become a member of any society
     or group so advocating.
  "Government in the U. S." defined to include states and their political sub-
divisions. Penalty, up to 10 years or $10,000, or both, and ineligible for Federal
employment for 5 years.
  Attempting or Conspiring to Commit Prohibited Acts {(1940) IS U. 8. C. A.,
Sect. 11).    —
             Unlawful for any person to attempt or to conspire to commit any of
the acts prohibited by the two preceding sections (9 and 10). Penalty, up to 10
years, or $10,000, or both, and ineligible for Federal employment for 5 years.
   Subversive Organizations Registration Act ({1940)18 U. S. C. A., Sects.
         —
14-17). Defines subversive organizations (Id., Sect. 14). Requires subversive
organizations to register, exempts certain organizations and sets forth require-
ments of registration statement (Id., Sect. 15). Authorizes Attorney General to
make, amend, and rescind rules and regulations necessary to carry out the fore-
going (Id., Sect. 16). Penalty, up to $10,000 or 5 years, or both. For making
false statements, up to $2,000 or 5 years, or both.
   Espionage Act ( (1911) (in effect in war only) 50 U. S. G. A., Sects. 31-42).—
Unlawfully obtaining or permitting to be obtained information regarding national
defense, unlawfully disclosing information affecting national defense, commit-
ting .seditious or disloyal acts or words in time of war, conspiring to violate fore-
going sections, harboring or concealing violators of law. Punishment ranges
from fines up to $10,000 and imprisonment up to 10, 20, or 30 years, and death.
   Interference With The Draft (Selective Service Act, Sect. 11 (1940), 50 U. 8.
C. A., Sect. 311).       —
                     Interfering with the draft in various enumerated ways, fail-
ing to register or report for service, or conspiring to do such prohibited things            ;


Subject to fine of not more than $10,000, or to imprisonment up to 5 years, or
both.
  Enticing Desertion From Armed Forces ( (1877) 18 U. S. G. A., Sects. 94, 95.)            —
Applies to anyone enticing or attempting to entice desertion by any member of
the armed forces, or harboring, concealing or refusing to .surrender a deserter.
Penalty, up to 3 years and not more than .$2,000. Penalties up to $50 and 3
donths, or both, for enticing workmen from arsenals or armories.
32            REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAX ACTIVITIES

     Damagimi                        and Harhnr Defenses ((1898) 18        U. 8. C. A., 8ect.
96).     — IiijuriugFortiflcofionsharbor-defense system, etc., or wilfully violating
                      fortifications,
any order or regulation of the President governing persons or vessels within de-
fense sea areas. Subject to fine of not more than $5,0<X), or imprisonment up to
5 years, or both.
   Trespassing Upon Military Reservations, etc. ((1909) 18 U. 8. C.A., Sect.
97).     —
       Entering military reservations, post, fort, or arsenal for any purpose pro-
hilnted by law or regulation, or returning thereto after once being ejected Pun-        :



ishable up to $r)()0 or tj months, or both.
  Accessories To Crime ((llOJ,) 18 V. 8. C. A.. 8cct. 5.50 ) .—Whoever directly
commits any offense defined in any law of the U.                S.. or aids, abets, counsels,
commands, induces, or procures its commission, is a
                                                            —   principal.
   Conspiracy ( (1861) 18 U. 8. C. A., Sect. 88). Conspiracy by 2 or more persons
to commit any offense against the U. S. and any overt act by any one of tliem to
effect the object of the conspiracy subjects each to penalties up to .$10,000 or 2
years, or both.
   Threats Against The President ((1917) IS U. 8. C. A., Sect. 8.9 ) .—Wilful
threats by mail or otherwise to kill or harm the President of the U. S. Punish-
able up to 5 years, or $1,0C0. or both.
  Acting As Foreign Governmental Agent Without Notice To The Secretary Of
                                                        —
State ((1917) 22 U. S. C. A., Sect. 233). Anyone, other than a diplomatic or
consular fficer or attache who acts in the U. S. as an agent of a foreign govern-
              (


ment without prior notification to the Secretary of State is subject to $."),000, or
T)years, or both.
  Deportation of Alien Radicals ( (1920) 8 U. 8. C. A., Sect. 137).— Any alien who,
at any time, shall be or shall have been a member of any one of the following
classes, shall be excluded from admission into the U. S.          :




        (a) Anarchists.
        (b) Opposers of organized government.
        (c) Advocates of violent overthrow of government, assault on govern-
     ment officers, or destruction of propt^rty.
        (d) Publishers, etc., of such doctrines.
        (e) Affiiiates of such publishors, etc.
  Provision for deportation of such aliens already within the U. S. Penalty, for
                                                —
unlawful return after deportation up to 5 years, and deportation again fol-
lowing iniprisonment.
   XatiiraIi.:ation Reqiiironoits      (1906) 8 U. S. C. A.. Sect. 735).
                                            (
                                                                             —
                                                                           Before being
naturalized, petitioner must take oath in open court to support Constitution of
the LI. S. and to renounce all allegiance to any foreign sovereignty, etc. Py Sect.
705 of Title 8, naturalization is denied to any person who advocates overthrow
of government, etc. (Provisions almost identical to Deportation Act, supra.)
   MaiVniii Ohscene or Indecent Matter         [1909) 18 U. 8. C. A.. Sect. .i.5-i .— Pro-
                                                    (                               )

hibiis, under penalties up to 5 years and $1,000, the mailing of any ob.-'cene or
indecent matter. The term "indecent" is expressly defined to include matter
of a cliaracter tending to incite arson, murder, or assassination.
   Mailing Matter Which Violates Espionage Act. etc. ((1917) 18 U. S. C. A.,
                     —
Sects. 3-'i3. S'l-'f). Matter is declared to I)e nonmailable which violates Espionage
Act. or which contains anytliin'.v advocating or urging treason, insurrection, or
forcib'e resistance toany law of the U. S.
  Importation of Subversive Literature ((1913) 19 U. 8. C. A., Sect. 1305).—
Prohibits all persons from importing into the U. S. any printed matter advocat-
ing treason or insurrection against the U. S., or forcible resistance to any law
thereof. Provision for confiscation and severe penalties against any government
ot!icer or employee aiding in such unlawful importation.
   Affidavits by Union Officials  (7.97/7) 80th Congress, 1st Ses-nrm. Ch. 120, P. L.
          —                             (



101). This act, entitled the ''Labor Management Relations Act, 1947," but more
commonly known as the "Taft-Hartley Law," among other things requires atfi-
davlts of mron officials that they are not members of the Communist party.
                            —
   Appropriation Acts. Mostly all, including the Hatch Act (Sect. 9-A), forbid
us   '
      of funds in payment for services, etc. to communists and the like.
   False Statements or Entries ((19J,8) 18 U. 8. C. A., Sect. 1001).—This is a
recent re-enactment of another statute which heretofore combined both fraud
and false statements. The provisions were separated in the revision of the
criminal cod;> and this statute is the one under which false statements in loyalty
tests will be punished.
           REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                               33

                       Appendix B   — State   Statutes (By States)

                                         ALABAMA
                                                             —
  Criminal Anarchy {Code 19)0. Title I'l. ncvta. 19-22). It is a felony to conspire,
consort or collude with, or induce, aid, advise, etc., in any manner, any person to
subvert, overturn, destroy or chansie the form of government of the state or U.
S. by force or violence, or other than by orderly process of law.      Penalties in-
clude loss of state citizenship. Organizations so advocating are declared illegal
and denied the riglits of political party, subject to dissolution or in.iunction
against carrying on such function, and persons participating in such organization
or meeting, so advocating are guilty of felony.
                                                   —
  Sedition (Session Laws lOZ/J, Chap. O-'/O). The advocacy in any manner of
the doctrine that organized government should be overthrown by force or violence,
or by assatisination of the executive head or of the executive officials of govern-
ment, or any unlawful means, or the .iustif.cation of .such doctrine, is a felony
                                                                                        —
also to become an organizer or a member of a group or assembly advocating such.

                                         ARIZONA

  Regulation of Teachers (Code 1939, Sert. .J-}-7002).— Loyalty oath statute.
  Rcf/iilation of LeijiHlators (5th Spec. Sess. 194S, House Concurrent Res. .}).
                                                                                        —
Loyalty oath statute.
                                        ARKANSAS

   Sedition ((19'/3) Session Laics, Mar. 15. pp. -J6J-.',68, No. 2.3/).— Advocating or
encouraging violence, sabotage or disloyalty punishable as a felony. Racial dis-
orders, prejudices, or hatreds are included.
   Lictiiil(iti(m. of State Emploiiccs {19',.^) Id., Mar. IS, pp. 5S1-532, No. 2//,9).— Un-
lawful for any person employed in any capacity by the State of Aikansas to have
membership in any party or organization which advocates the overthrow of cur
constitutional form of government. Punishable as a misdemeanor, subject to
fine of not less than .$50 or more than $250.         Persons convicted shall be removed
by the Governor and thereafter rendered ineligible to hold any office or employ-
ment   in the State.
    Criminal Anarchy ((IO4I), Id., Mar. 26, pp. 75J,-755, Xo. 2,02).— This statute
is, in effect, a combination of provisions both against sedition and anarchy.      It
outlaws the advocacy verlially or in writing of the overthrow of government by
force or violence, or by the assassination of any government official.    It further
prohibits organization of or memliership in any such organization. Penalties:
         (a) Up to 10 years or $10,000, or both.
         (b) Ineligible for employment by State for 5 years.
         (c) Further provides, somewhat aml)iguously, that no member of a nazi,
      fascist, or communist society, or affiliated group, shall be eligible for em-
      ployment by the State.
   E.Tchision From Ballot ((19',1) 1<L. Mar. 26, pp. 155-757, Xo. 2PJ ) .—Directed
specifically against the communist party and the commtinist international, but
designed to cover any foreign or subversive organization advocating overthrow
of government. This statute, similar to those in some of the other states, provides
tl!at affidavits must l)e filed by all paities with the Secretary of State, who is
empowered to investigate and l)ar any subversive party from the ballot. Pun-
ishable by $in0 to $1,000 fine and not more than 6 months' imprisonment.        (See
c-a.se of Field v. Hall. 201 Ark. 77, 143 S. W. (2d) 5(i7, wherein constitutionality
of this act was upheld and the court, in mandanuis proceedings, refused to
disturb the findings of the Secretary of State.)
                                                                          —
   Conspiracy To Orerthrotr Government (19.37 Code, Sect. 3571). Unlawful to
con.spire to usurp or overthrow present form of government or to obstruct
justice.
                                        CAEIFORNIA

  Reyulation of State Employees ( (19.',5) Session Laics, Apr. 27, p. 53S, c.
123).  —
       Forbids employment by any state agency or court of any person who
either directly or indii-ectly carries on, advocates, teaches, justifies, aids, or
abets a program of sabotage, force and violence, sedition or treason against the
Government of the U. S. or of California. Any such person, including teachers
who already are so employed, shall be discharged and such person shall not be
34          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

compensated from the state treasury. Provision further is made (pp. 567-8)
for disciplinary action against any employee who is or claims to be a citizen of
a country with which the U. S. is at war, or a dual citizen of U. S. and of any
such country, or who has taken an oath of or pledged allegiance to any such
country, or who commits any act of disloyalty to the U. S. or its flag, or obstructs
the war effort or defense preparations of the U. S.
  ReyulaUon of Schools ((WJ,5) July 10, pi). 2301-2, c. 1213).— Use of scliool
property forbidden by any individual, society, group, or organization which ad-
vocates, or has as one of its objects, the overthrow of the government of the U. S.
or of the state, by force, violence, or other unlawful means. Any person who is
affiliated with any siich oi'ganization is characterized as a sul»versive element.
Governing Board shall determine who is a subversive element and is empowered
to demand affidavits of facts. Perjury statutes are made appUcahle thereto.
  Regulation of Public Officers {(19!,1) Id., July 19, pp. 3228-9 c. 1281).—          AMs
a section to the Political Code, rendering supporters of foreign governments, and
the like, ineligible to hold public office. Designed to curb oth column and permits
anyone to purge himself of a foreign oath by petitioning Court and renouncing
such allegiance.
   Criminal Syndicalism {{1919) Gen. Laws, Deering, 1937, Act 8428). Anyone       —
who in any manner by words, publications, or conduct, advocates, aids, etc., or
justifies the doctrine advocating commission of crime, sabotage or unlawful acts
of force and violence or terrorism as a means of accomplishing a change in indus-
trial ownei'ship or control or political change is guilty of felony     —
                                                                    also organizing
or becoming a member of a group or assembly advocating such.
  Exclusion From Ballot {{19J,0) Elections' Code, Sects. 25Jj0.3-Jf). Similar to
Arkansas statute. Applies to any part.v using the word "communist" in its
name or which is affiliated with the communist party of the U. S.
  Subversive Organizations Registration- Act {{19^1) Session Laws, April 25,
pp. 1236-1240, c. 183).—  Requires registration with and detailed information to
the Secretary of State by every corporation, association, society, camp, group,
bund, political party, assembly, and every other body of two or more persons or
members which directly or indirectly advocate overthrow of government.
Penalty, fine of $1,000— $10,000 against the organization; $500—$5,000 and 6
months to 5 years for officers, directors, trustees, etc. $10-— $1,000 and 10 days
                                                                ;


to one year for knowingly becoming or remaining a member of a subversive
organization.
  Fact Finding Committee {19^1-1948)            .
                                                    —Commission established   to investigate
and report on subversive activities.

                                             COLORADO
  Sedition and Criminal Anarchy     {1919) Stat. Ann., 1935, c. J,8, Sects. 15-29).
                                     (
                                                                                         —
Advocating overthrow of government of U. S. or of Colorado defined as anarchy
and sedition and made a felony likewise, advocating destruction of life or
                                         ;


property or personal injury either as a general principle or in particular in-
stances, as a means of affecting governmental, industrial, social, or economic
conditions defining and making unlawful anarchistic and seditious associations
             ;


and societies; serving as an officer or representative thereof; distributing any
pamphlets or literature advocating any of the foi'egoing; and conspiring to
do any of these things. Penalty Not exceeding 20 years, or $10,000, or both.
                                 :



  Regulation of Teachers {Stat. Ann., 1935, c. I46, Sects. 235-237) .—Loyalty
oath statute.
                                     CONNECTICUT

  Incitement To Specific Acts of Violence {{1923) Gen. Stat. 1930, Sec. 6072).—
Advocating damage to public or private property or assault upon Army. National
Guard, or police force, or injury to any class or bodv of persons. Penalty up to
10 years or $5,000.
  Sedition {{1939)    Id., Sec. &039).— It is unlawful to speak, write, distribute,
etc.,any disloyal, scurrilous or abusive matter, concerning the form of U. S.
government, its military forces, flag or uniforms, or any matter intended to bring
them into disrepute, or which creates or fosters opposition to organized govern-
        —
ment also to utter in an assemblage any doctrine or propaganda intended to
injure U. S. or state government. Penalty, up to 20 years, $10,000, or both.
           REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                        35

                                             DELAWARE

  Sedition ((1931) Rev. Code, 1935, Seet. 5156).—Defined as any verbal or writ-
ten or printed utterance wliich proximately causes any violence or demonstra-
tion of violence against either the U. S. or Delaware, and any part in organizing
or becoming or remaining a memlier of any organization which advocates such
purpose. Punishable by tine of $100 to $10,000 and imprisonment not exceeding
20 vears either or both.
           ;


  Ejclusion From Ballot {(1935) Id., Sect. 1810).— ISio political party shall be
recognized or given a place on the ballot which advocates the overthrow by force
or violence, or which advocates or carries on a program of sedition or of treason
by radio, speech, or press, of our local, state, or national government. Affidavit
required of all        new   parties.

                                              FLOEIDA

  Incitement To Specific Acts of Violence ( (1866) Comp. Gen. Laws, Sect. 7133).—
Prohibits incitement of insurrection or treason, or attempt thereat by means of
verbal or written utterance or other means.
   Criminal Anarchy ( (iS^i) Session Laws, Apr. 22, pp. 59-60, c. 20216).— Crim-
inal anarchy, communism, naziism, and fascism prohibited, defined, and made a
felony, subject to severe punishment. Statute further makes it unlawful for any
owner, agent, etc., of any building knowingly to allow communist meetings therein.
  Regulation of Teachers {Stats.            19.il, Sect. 231.18).
                                                                    —Loyalty   oath statute.

                                              GEORGIA

  Inchtement To Specific Acts of Violence {(1866-72) Code Ann. 1936, Sects.
                  —
26.901-904). Similar to Florida's statute. Enacted during Civil War.
                                                                     —
  Re<julation of Teachers (Session Laws 1935, Res. 5^). Loyalty oath statute.
  Regulation of Presidential Electors (Act approved Oct. 2, 1948). Loyalty oath
                                                                                —
required.
                                               IDAHO

   Criminal Sijndicalism {{1917) Code Ann. 1932, Sects. i7.iJW-4).—Defined as
the doctrine wliich wilfully and maliciously advocates crime, sabotage, violence,
or unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing industrial or po-
litical reform.  Criminal syndicalism applied to certain specific acts and made
punishable as a felony and by imprisonment for not more than 10 years or by               ;


fine of not more than $5,000, or both.   "Criminal syndicalist assembly" defined
and participants made subject to similar penalties. Also, the owner, agent or
caretaker of any place, building or room iiermitting such unlawful assemblage
made subject to imprisonment for not more than one (1) year, or fine up to
$500, or both.
                                    ILLINOIS

  Regulation of State Employees { (19^5 Session Laws, July 17, p. 530, Sect. 6).
                                                                                                  —
Members  of communist, nazi, and fascist organizations barred from State Civil
Service.
   Exclusion From Ballot { {19J,1) amended 1943, Vol. 2, May 11, pp. 99, I4I, Sects.
7-2, 10-2; Rev. Stat., 1947, ch. 46, sees. 7-2, 8-2, 10-2).— Bar a Communist Party
from ballot. Similar to laws enacted in other states. Related statutes dis-
qualify the        Communist Party from making nominations for public                office     (111.
1941, vol.     1, p.604) and from qualifying under the primary election law           (111.,   1941,
vol. 1,July 1, p. 607).
   Incitement To Specific Acts of Violence { (1861) Rev. Stat., State Bar Ass'n
ed., 1939, c. 134, Sects. 10-11).
                                        —
                                    Applies to riot, rebellion, and insurrection.
   Sedition ( (1919) Id., c. 38, Sects. 558-560, 567, ) .—Unlawful to advocate orally
or in writing the reformation or overthrow of representative form of state or
U. S. government by violence or other unlawful means or to distribute material
                       —
advocating such also membership in, or giving aid to, or knowingly to attend
meeting of, group so advocating.
   Regulation of Schools (Rev. Stat. 1947, c. I44. Sect. 4S.8).—Use of University of
Illinois facilities withheld from subversive organizations.
   Compensation of State Employees and Officers Withheld for Sedition (Rev.
Stat. 1947, G. 127, Sect. i66a ) .—Self-explanatory,
36         REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                      INDIANA
   Exclusion From Ballot ((1945), Session Latos, Mar. 6, pp. 766-767, ch. 208,
Sect. 117). — Because this is a model statute and is deemed of considerable im-
portance to the Commission, it is quoted herewitli, as follows :


   "No political party or organization shall be recognized and given a place on
or have the names of its candidates printed on the ballot used at any election
which advocates the overthrow by force or violence of the local, state, or national
government, or which advocates, or carries on, a program of sedition or of trea-
son, and which is afliliated or cooperates with or has any relation with any foreign
government, or any political party or group of individuals of any foreign govern-
ment. Any political party or organization which is in existence at the time of
passage of this act, or which shall have had a ticket on the ballot one (1) or
more times prior to any election, and which does not advocate any of the doc-
trines the advocacy of which is prohibited by this act, shall insert a plank in its
platform that it (^oes not advocate any of the doctrines prohibited by this act.
No existing or newly organized political party or organization shall be permitted
on or to have the names of its candidates printed on the ballot used at any elec-
tion until it has filed an affidavit, by its officers, under oath, that it does not
advocate the overthrow of local, state, or national government liy force or vio-
lence, and tliat it is not affiliated with and does not cooperate with nor has any
relation with any foreign government, or any political party, organization, or
group of individuals of any foreign government. The affidavit herein ]n-ovided
for shall be filed with the state election board or the county election board having
ciiarge of the printing of the ballot on which such ticket is to appear.         The
election board with which such affidavit is filed shall make, or cause to be made,
such investigation as it may deem necessary to determine the character and
nature of the political doctrines of such existing or proposed new party and
the expense paid by the state treasury out of funds not otherwise appropriated,
provided the amount of such appropriation shall not exceed five hundred dollars
 (."{^oOO)
       ;
           and the expense of the investigation by the county election board shall
be paid out of the funds in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, provided
the amount of such appropriation shall not exceed three hundred dollars ($300)     ;


and if the board is of the opinion that such existing or proposed new party advo-
cates doctrines which are in violation of the provisions of this act, or that any
of the statements in said affidavit are false, the board shall not permit such
ticket or candidates on the ballot."
    Sedition ({IDIH) nnriis Stat. Ann.. J9S3, Sects. 10.-1301-3).— Unlawful to
advocate, incite, publish, etc., the overthrow of government of state or U. S. by
force, or by physical injury to personal property, or by general cessation of
industry.    Penalty up to $5,000, five (5) years, or both.
   Retmlation of Teachers {Stat. Ann. 1933, Sects. 28-5112 to 28-5114) .—Loyalty
oath statute.
    Ref/ulation of Public Officers {Stat. Ann. 1933, Sect. 49-303) .-Seditious per-
sons not to hold public office.
                                       IOWA
                                                —
  Sedition {{1917) Code, 1939, Sect. 12900). Persons inciting or attempting to
incite insurrection or sedition among a portion or class of the popidation to be
punished. Any person who by speech, writing, or any means shall advocate
subversit)n and destruction by force of government of state or U. S. or attempts to
                                                                    —
encourage opposition to such government is guilty of misdemeanor- also member-
ship in such organization.
  Criminal Syndicalism {(1919) 1946, Sects. 689.4 to 689.14).—Advocacy in
any manner by speech, writing, etc., of doctrine which advocates crime, sabotage,
violence or other unlawfiU methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing
industrial or political reform is felony.   Includes justifying such doctrine or
organizing or assembling with groups so advocating.

                                      KANSAS
  Exclusion   From   Ballot{ {1941) Session Laws, Apr. 7, pp. 336-7, c. 231).— Bars

communist party    specifically by name, but also applies to other subversive
parties. Similar to statutes of other states.
   Criminal Siindicalism {{1920) Gen. Stat. 1935, Sects. 21.301-4).—Defined as
"the doctrine which advocates crime, physical violence, arson, destruction of
property, sabotage, or other unlawful acts or methods, as a means of accomplish-
                REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UX-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                           37

'iriir   or       industrial or poltical eiuls, or as a means of effecting industrial
              effecting.'
•or political revolutiou, or for profit."   (The italicized words do not appear in
•other statutes.)   Applied to specific acts and made punishable by 1-10 years
 and line of not more than $1,000, either or both. I'ruvision against use of
                                            —
 premises for such unlawful purposes $100-$;jOO 60 days-1 year, or both.
                                                          ;


   Scilition [Gen. Stat. 11)35, Sect. 2 1-.,'^ J). —Applies to joining revolutionary
societies.
                                          KENTUCKY
   Criminal Sjffidicalistn ((1920) Baldxoin's Rev. Stat. 1936, Sect. ^32.020).—
It is an offense for any person to connuit, aid or counsel any crime, physical
-violence, destruction of property, intimidation, etc., or other unlawful acts or
 methods to accomplish any political end or to bring about political revolution.
 Penaltv up to 21 years, $10,000, or both.
   Sedi'tion {(1920) Id., Sect. 432.030).— It is a felony to advocate or suggest
in  any manner any pul)lic disorder or resistance to, or change or modification of,
the government, constitution or laws of U. S. or state by force or other unlawful
means. It is a felony to teach or publish any doctrine, advocating, etc., crimi-
•nal syndicalism or sedition, or to organize or lie member of organization advocat-
 ing such. Penalty, up to 21 years, $10,000, or both.
   Conspriaci/ to Commit Specific Acts of Violence {(19-'/7) Session Laws).
                                                                                         —
-Applies to intimidation or injury of individuals and damage to property. Ap-
plied in labor disputes.
                                          LOUISIANA

     Regulation of State Guard      {{19.'i2)
                                                                                         —
                                                Session- Lairs, Julii 2. pp. 55-5(i, No. 5).
IMembers of the State Guard required             to take oath that they do not belong to
rsubversive organization.       Sedition within the State      Guard punishable by Court
IMartial.
   Incitement to Specific Acts of Violence (Crim.. Code 1942, Art. 113, Sect. 740-
115).     —
         Prohibits incitement of insurrection or sedition among any portion or
•class of the population, or attempt by writing, speaking, or any means to do so.
               —
   Note. Louisiana had a regular statute on sedition which was enacted in 1917,
Tint repealed in 1942.    In 1942 the State also enacted a statute making it un-
lawful to teach disloyalty or to urge refusal to honor the governments and
flags of the U. S. and of Louisiana.    This, however, was a temporary measure
Avhich was designed to expire automatically at the end of the war.

                                                MAINE
     Nothing of interest found.
                                          MARYLAND
   Incitement To Specific Acts of Violence ( (1862) Code, Art. 27, Sect. 60S).— This
IS a very old statute applying to treason against the state.       It prohibits secret
or public meetings, or secret clubs to encourage secession of Maryland from the
U. S. It is cited only because of its historical interest and because it appears
still to be on the statute books.
                                                         —
   Commission on Suttrersive Activities (19.'i8). Senate .Joint Resolution No. 2
established this Commission as a temporary commission for the sole purpose of
making this report, and requires foruuilation and submission of legislative pro-
gram to 1949 Legislature.
   Regulation of State Employers and Public Officers ((Consiitutional Amend-
                                —
ment) Acts 1947, c. 721). Approved by electorate, November 2, 1948. "No per-
son who is a member of an organization that advocates the overthrow of the
Government of the United States or of the State of Maryland through force or
violence sliall be eligil)le to hold any office, be it elective or appointive, or any
other position of profit or trust in the Government of or in the administration of
the busine.ss of this State or of any county, municipality or other political sub-
 division of this State." Note, however, that it applies to members only, not to
 other subversive individuals.
                                       MASSACHUSETTS
     Criminal Anarchy    (1919) Laics, 1913, eh. 264, ^^ect. 11).— It is a felony to ad-
                            (

 vocate, advise, counsel, etc., in any manner the assault on a public official, killing
 of any person, unlawful destruction of property, or overthrow by force or violence
38         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

of government of state. Persons convicted of violation of this section not to per-
form duties of teacher or administrator in public or private educational institu-
tion, and such performance can be restrained by court.    Further penalty up to
$1,000, 3 years, or both.
   Regulation of Teachers (Sessi07i             Laws   1948, ch. 160).   —Loyalty   oath statute.

                                               MICHIGAN
  Sedition    (1935) Stat. Ann. 1938, Sect. 28.241-3).—Prohibits advocacy of over-
                    (

throw of government of U. S. or of any state by force or violence. Provides that it
shall not be construed to abridge freedom of speech or press, or peaceful picketing^
Penalty, not more than 5 years or $.5,000, or both.
                                                                     —
  Criminal Syndicalism ( (1919) Id., Sect. 28.235-6). The advocacy in any man-
ner by word of mouth, writing, etc., of the duty or propriety of crime, sabotage,,
violence, or other unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing,
industrial or political reform, etc., or the justifying of such acts, or becoming:
an organizer or member of an organization or assemblage advocating such, is a
felony. Penalty 10 years, $5,000, or both.
  Subversive Organizations Registration Act ((1947) Ses'sion Laws, No. 134)-                   —
Requires subversive organizations to register and to identify their published:
material. Penalty, up to 5 years, $5,000, or both.
  Regulation of Teachers (Mason's 1940 Supp., Sect. 7615). ^Loyalty oathj       —
statute.
                                              MINNESOTA
  Crim,inal Syndicalism ((1917)              Laws
                                        1917, Sect. 10057-60) .—It is a felony to
advocate in any manner by word of mouth, writing, etc., the doctrine advocating
crime, sabotage, violence, or other unlawful methods of terrorism as means of
accomplishing industrial or political ends also to be a member of, or assemble
                                                       ;


with, group advocating such. Penalty, 10 years, $5,000, or both. Owner, lessor,.
agent, or occupant of a building permitting such unlawful assemblage guilty of"
gross misdemeanor and subject to 1 year, $500, or both.

                                              MISSISSIPPI

  Nothing of interest found. However, in 1942, Mississippi, like Louisiana,,
passed an act m-aking it unlawful to teach disloyalty or to urge refusal to honor
the U. S. or State flags. Like the Louisiana act, it was a temporary measure and.
was designed to expire automatically at the end of the war.
                                                MISSOUEI

  Conspiracy                  Commit
                         Specific Acts of Violence ((1845) Rev. Stat. 1939, p..
                         to
                                —
1019, Sect. 4270-71). Prohibits conspiracy to overthrow or interfere with gov-
ernment, to levy war against any part of the people, or to remove them forcibly
out of the State, or from their habitations. Note that this statute ante-dates-
the Civil War.
                                               MONTANA
  Sedition          (   (1919) Rev. Code, 1935, Sect. 10737-8)   .—The   uttering, printing, writ-
ing, publishing, etc., of disloyal,          profane contemptuous slurring,
                                                                    etc., language
about U.      government or form of government of U. S., U. S. Constitution or
               S.
flag, soldiers or sailors of U S. or uniforms of such, etc., or any language cal-
culated to bring such into contempt, scorn or disrepute, or language calculated tO'
                                                               Penalty, fine of from
incite resistance to U. S. or state authority, etc., is unlawful.
$200-$20,000 and imprisonment from 1-20 years.
                                                                     —
   Criminal Syndicalism ( (1918) Id., Sect. 10740-4). It is a felony in any manner
to urge the doctrine which advocates crime, violence, force, destruction of prop-
erty, etc., or other unlawful acts or methods as a means of accomplishing indus-
trial or political ends, or revolution, etc., to be a member of organization or
assembly advocating such. Penalty, $200-$l,000 1-5 years. Further inhibi-
                                                                 ;


tion against use of premises, punishable as misdemeanor.
           —
   Note. In 1941 Montana passed a temporary war measure designed to insure-
the reemployment in State and Civil Service of veterans and prohibited the
filling of any such vacancy with a communist or member of the German-Americani
Bund. Why the act was limited to vacancies created by military service and
              REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                      39^


why    did not, instead, prohibit the appointment or employment of communists,
        it
           positions of state employment, are not apparent.
etc.. in all
  Regulation of Teachers' {Rev. Code 1935, Sect. i327.i).— Loyalty oath statute.

                                             NEBRASKA
  Criminal St/ndicalism ( (1919) Rev. Stat. 19J,3. Sects. 28.815-17).— It is a felony
by word of mouth or writing, to advocate, suggest, etc., the propriety, necessity,
etc.,  of crime, physical violence, destruction or damage of property etc., or
sabotage, as a means of accomplishing industrial or political reform, or for
profit
        —also to organize or be a member of an organization advocating such^
Penalty, 1-10 years, up to $1,000, or both.

                                              NEVADA
  Criminal SyndicaHsm {{1919)         Comp. Laws, 1929, Sects. 10560-^) .—It is a-
felony to urge, teach, justify, etc., in any manner, the doctrine which advocates
crime, sabotage, violence, or unlawful methods of terrorism as means of accom-
plishing industrial or political reform, or to be a member or organizer of a group
or assembly advocating such. Penalty, up to 10 years, $5,000, or both. Prohi-
bition against use of premises, punishable as misdemeanor.
                                                            —
  Regulation of Teachers (Stats. 1947, Sect. 322). Loyalty oath statute.
  Criminal Anarchy {Comp. Laws 1939, Sects. 10296-10299).— It is a felony to
advocate by speech, printing, etc., or in any manner, the doctrine that organized
government should be overthrown by force or violence, or by assassination, or
                                   —
other unlawful means or to be a member of assembly advocating such.

                                           NEW HAMPSHIRE
  Sediti077   {1919) Put). Laws 1926, eh. 39',, See. 26, 28-30).— Prohibits advocacy
                       {

of overthrow or change in government of U. S. or New Hampshire, or interference
with any public or private right by force or unlawful means. Also prohibits
assembling for such purposes; likewise, introducing into the state, publishing, dis-
tributing, or having in possession for distribution any matter including pictures,
advocating overthrow. Penalty, up to 10 years, or $5,000, or both, and injunction
provision for destruction of books, pictures, etc.

                                            NEW   JERiSEY

  Criminal Anarchy {{1902) Rev. Stat. 1937, Vol. 1, Sec. 2; i 7.3-7-9). —Prohibits-
advocating anarchy, becoming a member of an anarchistic organization or society
or introducing or circulating any printed matter inciting or tending to incite
anarchy. Penalty, not more than $2,000 nor 15 years, or both.
  Incitement to Specific Arts of Violence {{1908) Id. 2: 173-10-11) .-Vrohihits
advocating the burning or destruction of property; assaults upon the Army, Na-
tional Guard, or police force killing or injuring any class of persons or any
                                       ;



individual and the publishing or circulation of any book, etc., tending to incite
                   ;


such unlawful acts. Penalty, up to 7 years, $100-$2,000, or both.
  Sedition {{1918) Id. 2: 173-12-22).—Prohibits:
       (a) Inciting or attempting to incite insurrection or sedition. Penalty, not
     more than $10,000, nor more than 20 years, or both.
       (b) Advocating subversion or destruction of State or Federal Government.
     Not more than $2,000 or 10 years, or both.
       (c) Attending meeting or joining society advocating destruction of ^tate-
     or Federal government. Penalty, $2,000, 10 years, or both.
        (d) Printing or producing books, pamphlets, pictures, emblems, etc., incit-
     ing destruction of State or Federal government. Up to $2,000, 7 years, or
        both.
             (e)         distributing, or possessing books, pamphlets, pictures, em-
                       Selling,
        blems,        inciting destruction of State or Federal government.
                           etc.,                                               Up to
        $2,000, 7 years, or both.
           (f ) Letting rooms or buildings to organizations advocating destruction of
        State or Federal government. Up to $2,000, 7 years, or both.
           (g) Hiring rooms or buildings for organizations advocating the above.
        Up to $2,000, 7 years, or both.
           (h) Allowing use of building by such organizations. Up to $2,000, 7 years,
        or both.
           (i) Displaying red or black flag or other emblem inciting destruction of
        State or Federal government. Up to $2,000, 15 years, or both.
40          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

         (j)   Displaying    flag,   picture, etc., advocating           overthrow of government.
     Up     to $2,000, 7 years, or both.
       (k) Opposing enlistments or advocating noncorporation with Federal
     government in carrying on war. Up to $2,000, 7 years, or both.
Miscellaneous
   (a)
                                                         —
         German- American Bund Auxiliary. Charter repealed and trustees di-
rected to dispo.se of its property and terminate its business forthwith.    (1941),
'Session Laws, June 3, p. 571, ch. 1S5.
    (b) Bar to Order EstnbllshUuj Date and Place of Birth ((19.',2) Id., May 2,
p. SJf8-50, ch. 95).
                        —
                     Prohibits the Courts from entering any such Order in the case
 of any person who is engaged in, or who believes in, or who belongs to any organi-
zation which advocates overthrow of government.
    (c) 8i(bversire Activities Investigation Commission     {19^7) Assembly Con-
                                               —                             (

current Res. No. 11, April 7, W'P). Governor directed to appoint Commission to
investigate subversive activities within the public schools and all other schools
and Universities within the State. Report to be filed and legislation recom-
mended.
  Regulation       of   Teachers     {Rev.      Stats.   1937,   Sect.    18:13-9).— 'Loyalty oath
statute.
                                               NEW MEXICO
  Sedition ( (1919) Stat. Ami. 1929, Sec. 35.3101-5) .—Frohih'its any act aimed at
destruction of government, or which is antagonistic to or in opposition to or-
ganized government, inciting revolution or opposition to such government. Em-
ployers knowingly employing persons so engaged are punishable. Penalty, up
to 10 years, or $1,000, or both. Note: Held unconstitutional in State v. Diamond
 (1921),27N. M. 477.
                                               NEW YORK
    Regulation of State Employees and Teachers ( (19-iO) Session Laws, April 17,
 p. 1 -',99-1500, ch. 56-'f, Superseding Laws 1939, ch. 547).
                                                                         —
                                                              Provides that no person
 shall be appointed to any ofiice or position in the service of the State or of any
 civil division or city thereof, nor sliall any person presently so employed be
 continued in such position, nor shall any person be employed in the public
 service as superintendents, principals, or teachers in a public school or any other
:state educational institution, who        :




          (a) Advocates or teaches the overthrow of government by force, violence,
     etc.
       (b) Prints, publishes, edits, issues, or sells any book, paper or document
     advocating such doctrine.
       (c) Organizes, or helps to organize or becomes a member of any such
     organization.
  Further provides for right of appeal and hearing in open court for anyone
aggrieved thereby.
  Criminal Anarrhg {(1902) Thompson's Laws 1939, Part 1, Art. 14, Sects. 160-
166).   —
       Defined and applied to any person advocating anarchy or assembling for
such purpose. Penalty, up to 10 years, .$.j,OUO, or both. Provisions against use
of premises for such unlawful purposes. Not more than 2 years, or $2,000, or
both.  Contains provision eximerating editors for publication of such matters,
without knowledge, and when promptly disclaimed upon discovery. Also grants
immunity from prosecution to witnesses who produce self-incriminating evidence.
  Subversive Organizations Registration Act (Thompson's Laws, Civil Rights
                        —
Law, Sect 53-56). Registration of constitution, membership list, etc., required.
                                        NORTH CAROLINA
                                                                    —
  Sedition ((1941) Session Laws, p. 4^-49, ch. 37). Unlawful in any manner
wilfully to advocate, etc., the doctrine that the government of the state or U. S.,
or any political subdivision, shall be overthrown or overturned by force or violence
or other unlawful means. It is a felony to advocate in any manner the duty,
propriety, etc., of overturning government of U. S. or political subdivision by
force or violence, or other unlawful means, or to print, disseminate, etc., writing,
advocating, etc., that doctrine. Includes membership in organization advocating
such. Editors, proprietors, etc., of newspapers, etc., are chargeable witli matter
published therein, as are managers of associations, etc., by which such were
issued.
             REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                            41.


   lucitnucnt to ^'^pceific Arts of Violnicc ((I8GS) Gen. ."^tat. 19',3. Art. 3, f^ec.
jJf.S.lO).
             —
             Applies to rebellion and insurrection. Membership in secret political
or military organizations also prohibited.
   Kci/iilaiion of State Ewployecs {(Gen. Stats. 191,1, ch. 14, Sect. i2.i).— This-
is not a separate statute but was enacted as an amendment to the .sedition statute,
supra. It provides that seditious individuals shall not be employed by the State-
and that persons alreadj- employed, who engage in subversive activities, shall
be discharged.
                                     NORTH DAKOTA

  Regulation of Teachers {Rev. Code      19J,3, Vol. 2, Sect.   i5-^70/).— Loyalty oatb
statute.
                                        OHIO

  criminal Syndicalism {{1919} Page's Gen. Code Ann., eh. 22, Sec. 13^2-23-
26).— It is a felony to urge, by word of mouth or writing, the doctrine whicli
advocates crime, sabotage, violence, and other unlawful methods of terrorism,
as means of accomplishing industrial or political reform. Includes joining as-
sembly or organization advocating such. Penalty, up to 10 years. $."),0(I0, or
       "

both. I'ermitting use of premises for such unlawful purposes declared a mis-
demeanor.
  Exclusion From Ballot {1941) Session Laics, June 4. p. 586-88}. Subversive
                               (
                                                                             —
parties excluded. Statute siuiilar to that in other states.

                                      OKLAHOMA
  Exclusion From Ballot {{IS-il) Session Lairs, May 15, p. 91-93).— Bins Com-
munist Party by name; also the Third Communist International and all parties
directly or indirectly affiliated therewith. Kequires filing of affidavits with Sec-
retary of State and makes provisions for investigation, hearing, and appeal. A.
comii'anion statute renders members of sul)versive groups ineligible as candidates
at primary elections (Okla. 1941, May 12, p. 100-102).
  Regnlaiion of Public Offieers and Emploijees {(1941) Id., May 15, p. 209-
11). — Subversive individuals disqualified from public ofiice or State employ-
ment, and subject to removal. This statute contains an unusual provision in that
it also subjects the appointing officer to removal for appointing a subversive
individual.
   Crimineil Syndicalism {{1919) Stat. 1941, Title 21, See. 1261-4).— It is a
felony to advocate, etc., by word of mouth or writing, the doctrine which ad-
vocates, etc., the duty, propriety, etc., of crime, physical violence, destruction of
property, or other unlawful acts or methods, as a means (;f accomplishing indus-
trial or political ends or revolution, or for profit.  (Includes joining assembly or
organization advocating such, which is punishable as a misdemeanor). Penalty^
up to 10 years, $5,0(X), or both.
                                                                           —
   Regulation, of Teachers (Harlow's Stats. 1941, ch. 10, Sect. 961). Loyalty oath
statute.
                                        OREGON

   Exclusion From Ballot {{1941) Session Laws, April 2, p. 861, ch. .^7.9).— Pro-
vides that no person shall be a candidate for public office who is affiliated with
any organization which teaches the doctrine of, or advocates, the overthrow of
the goverinnent of the U. S. by force or violence. The name of no such person,
as a candidate, shall be placed upon any ballot within the state and no such
person shall be eligible for appoinimtnt to a public office. Note that this statute
is directed against the individual and not against the party or organization.
   Con.s'piracg to Commit Felony (1931).
                                               —
                                              A 1919 statute on criminal syndi-
calism was repealed and replaced by this general statute on conspiracy. Penalty^
up   to 3 years, .$1,000, or both.
  Regulation of Teachers (Comp. Laws Ann.            IBJfO,   vol. 8,   Sect. 111-2102).   —
Loyalty oath statute.
                                     PENNSYLVANIA
   Exclusion From Ballot ( (19^1) Session Laws, July 28. pp. 526-530, Xo. 213).            —
Subversive groups and parties prohii)ited from nominating candidates for public
office. Provision for affidavits to be filed with Secretary of State, investigation,,
determination, and appeal to the courts.
42        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Regulation of State Employees {{I94I)      lb., pp. 530-531, No. 214).
                                                                                 —
                                                                         State em-
ployment denied      tosubversive individuals. Provision for removal for those
already so employed. Further provision for hearing and appeal to the Courts.
   Sedition {(1919) Amended 1921, 1939. Purdon's Stat. Ami, 19^0, Siipp. Sect.
      —
4207). Any writing, publication, printing, utterance, conduct, etc., individually
•or in combination, with intent :



        (a) To cause outbreak of violence against state or U. S.
         (b) To encourage persons to engage in conduct with view to overthrow or
      destroy government of state or U. S.
        (c) To encourage persons to do any act to bring U. S. or state government
     into disrepute.
        (d) To incite persons to    harm   public   official,   his property, or i^ublic prop-
     erty, is a felony.
  Includes organizing or becoming member of assembly or group with policies
advocating such. Punishment up to 20 years, $10,000, or both.
Miscellaneous
   (a) Welfare and Puhlic Assistance {(194.3) Session Laws, No. 191, Sec. 6, p.
     —
43S). Except as otherwise specifically provided in the case of pensions for the
blind, welfai-e and public assistance is denied to subversive individuals.
   (b) Wrtr Opposition {(1S61) amended 1939, Purdon's Stat. A7in. 194O Stipp.,
Sec. 4203).—  Prohibits dissuading persons from entering service of the U. S. or
Pennsylvania, with intent to oppose or subvert the State or Federal government.
   (c) Regulation of Police Force (Session Laws 1941, ch. 45).
                                                                          —
                                                                  Subversive indi-
viduals disqualified as members of Police Force under Civil Service in cities.

                                     RHODE ISLAND
   Criminal Syndicalism and Anarchy {(1919) Gen. Laics, 1938, cli. 604). Con-          —
tains a special wording, viz, prohil)iting "language intended to incite a defiance
or disregard of the Constitution or laws of Rhode Island or U. S." Further
prohibits advocacy of any change in form of government except as provided by
Constitution or other laws, advocacy of assassination of government officials, or
the destruction or damaging of any public or private property as an incident to
a programme of force, violence or revolution, or wilfully displaying any flag
or emblem proposed to be superior to the form of government of the U. S.
Penalty, up to 10 years, $10,000, or both. Statute contains membership and con-
spiracy clauses and any meeting for such purpose is unlawful assembly, subject
to dispersal in the same mann(3r as riotous, tumultuous, or treasonable assemblies.

                                    SOUTH CAROLINA
  Regulation of Teachers (Code 1942, Sect. 5324 (3) ).— Loyalty oath statute.

                                    SOUTH DAKOTA
  Criminal Syndicalism {(1918) Code 1939, Sec. 13.0801-4) .—^t is a felony to
advocate, further, etc., in any manner, the doctrine, which teaches, advocates
or practices crime, sabotage, violence or other methods of terrorism, or the de-
struction of life or propery, for the accomplishment of social, economic, in-
                            —
dustrial or political ends and includes possession, display, or publication or
writing advocating such with intent to so advocate, or the organizing or as-
sembling with persons advocating such, or acting in pursuance of that purpose.
Penalty, 1-25 years, $1,000-$10,000, or both.
  Regulation of Teachers (Code 1939, Sect. 15.3702).— IjOjalty oath statute
                                                                         —
  Regulation of State Employees (Code 1939, Sect. 17.0107). Applies to aliens
                                                                                           .




only and provides that no alien, who has not declared his intention to become a
naturalized citizen of the U. S. shall be employed by the State or any political
subdivision thereof.
                                      TENNESSEE
  Exclusion   From  Ballot {(1938) Code, Sec. 1936 (i) ).—Bars subversive politi-
cal parties, their individuals and candidates from any place on the ballot for
public office. Requires affidavit of all new parties and makes violation a pun-
ishable offense.
   Incitement to Specific Acts Of Violence ((1915) Id., Sec. ii038).— Prohibits
advising, inciting, or conspiring to commit the offense known as "night riding."
Punishable by 3-15 years.
               REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                              43
                                                    —
   Sedition ((1857-8) Id., Sec. 11026). Any person uttering seditious words,
spreading false news, writing or dispersing scurrilous libels against state or
general government, disturbing or obstructing any lawful officer in executing
liis office, or of instigating others to cabal or meet together to contrive, suggest,
etc., or incite rebellious conspiracies, riots, or any manner of unlawful feuds or
4ifferences, thereby to stir people up maliciously to contrive the ruin and de-
struction of peace, safety and order of government, or knowingly concealing such
pi'actices, is guilty of misdemeanor. Up to 1 year, $1,000, or both also bonds to
                                                                              ;



keep the peace, and ineligibility to hold public office for 3 years.
                                                 TEXAS
   Exclusion From      Ballot {(1941) Session Laics, June 30, p. 877, ch. 547).           —
Directed against the individual, rather than the party or organization. Provides
that no person shall be permitted to have his name appear upon any official ballot
^s a candidate for any office unless he file with the Secretary of State an
-affidavit that, if elected, he will support and defend the Constitution of the U. S.
and of Texas, and will resist any effort to subvert or destroy representative
form of government. Specifically provides that no candidate or nominee of the
Communist, Nazi, or Fascist party shall ever be allowed a place on the official
t»allot.
   Rciiulation of Teachcr.9   (   (19   ',1)
                                                                                          —
                                               Session Laivs, June 30, pp. 1107-8, ch. 568).
Faculty members of State-supported institutions subject                 to discharge for sub-
versive beliefs or activities.
   Rcf/ulafion of Faculty of State Institutions ((1941) Session Laivs, July 23,
                    —
p. 1355, ch. 617). All teachers and instructors of tax-supported schools, colleges,
universities or other institutions of learning shall take oath of office and, subject
to hearing, shall be discharged for subversive activity.

                                                  UTAH
   Criminal Syndicalism ((1919) Rev. Stat. 1933, Sects. 1 03. 5 Jf-1-5).— It is un-
lawful to advocate, suggest, justify, etc., in any manner, by word of mouth,
printing, etc., the doctrine which advocates crime, violence, force, destruction
of property, or other unlawful methods or acts, as means of accomplishing in-
dustrial or political ends, changes or revolution. Penalty, 1-5 years, .$200-$1.000,
or both. Similar provision for assembling for such unlawful purpose.            Use
of premises punishable as misdemeanor.
   Regulation of State Police Hif/htcay Patrol (Laivs 1945, ch. 118). Persons
                                                                                      —
•with subsevsive affiliations barred from State Highway Patrol appointments.

                                                VERMONT
   Criminal Anarchy ( (1919) Put). Laics, 1933, Sects. 8.370).— Prohibits incitement
through advocacy of assault upon or killing of public official, destruction of
property, overthrow of state government by force or violence, or meeting with
others to advocate violation or refusal to obey laws of state regarding preserva-
tion of peace and protection of life and property. Penalty, up to 3 years, or
$1,000. or both.
                                                            —
   Regulation of Teachers (Laics 1935, No. 88). Loyalty oath statute.
   Teachers Engaging In Propaganda (Pub. Laics, 1933, Sect. 4236). Subject to
                                                                                  —
dismissal.
                                                VIRGINIA

   Consipracy To Commit     Specific Acts Of Violence ((1877-78) Code 1936, Sect.
jfS92).
           —
         Prohibits conspiracy for incitement of colored population to violence
.against whites or vice versa. Penalty, 5-10 years.                  —
   Sedition ((1948) Acts of Assembly No. 392, ch. 172). It is a felony to ad-
vocate any change, by force or violence, in the government of the state or any
of its subdivisions, or of the U. S.—joining or assisting or otherwise
contributing to any group or organization which, to the knowledge of the per-
son, advocates such is also a felony. Act not to apply to advocating change in
government   by peaceful means. Penalty, $1,000-$5,000, 2-5 years, or both.
                                               WASHINGTON
  Criminal Anarchy ((1941) Session Laws, Mar. 24, pp. 676-7, ch. 215).—This
                                                                         in
appears to be an amendment and reenactment of an earlier statute passed
44         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

1909.    It is a felony to advocate in any manner the doctrine that organized
government should be overthrown by force or violence, assassination of executive
otlicials, or by any unlawful means, or justifying such, or to become a member
or assemble with a group so advocating. Penalty, up to 10 years, $5,000, or both,
and ineligible for state employment for 5 years.
   Criminal Si/iidicalistn Hl91<J) Rev. Stat. A7i)i., 19S2, Sects. i:563.1-ll).—
       —
Unique Whoever, with intent that his act shall, or who has reason to believe
that it may, injure, interfere with, etc., agriculture, lumbering, mining, manu-
facturing, tran.'^portation, etc.. wherein persons are employed for wage shall wil-
fully injure or destroy, or attempt or threaten to do so. any property, mechanism,
                                     —
apiiiiance, etc., is guilty of a felony  resembles sabotage laws. Includes anyone
who, with intent to supplant, impair, etc., owner's management or control of any
enterprise listed above, shall unlawfully take or retain, or threaten to do so, con-
trol of any property or instrumentality used in such enterprise.      It is a felony
also to advocate, etc.. sucli doctrine or conduct in any manner, or to organize or
become a member of assemblage advocating above. Penalty, up to $.'>,000, 10
years, or both.
  Regulation of Teachers      {Pierce's       Code 1939,   Sect,   jp'31-1).
                                                                               —Loyalty   oath
statute.
  Incitement To Specific Acts Of yi(jJ<nce (Pierce's Code 1939, Sect. 8750).-^
Inciting or encouraging a breach of p.^ace or disrespect, or disrespect for law or
courts, or permitting premises to be used for anarchy are declared to be a gross
misdemeanor.
                                   WEST VIRGINIA
  Sedition and Criminal Siiridicalism   {1919) Code Ann. 1931, Sect. 5912).— It is
                                          (


unlawful to speak, print, communicate, etc., in any manner any doctrine in sym-
pathy with or in favor of ideals, institutions, or forms of government hostile,
inimical, or antagonistic to those existing under constitution and laws of state
or U. S., or in sympathy with or in favor of crime, violence or other unlawful
methods of terrorism as means of accomplishing econiimic or political reform, or
in sympathy with or in favor of the overthrow of organized society, the unlawful
destruction of property, or violation of law. It is a mistlemeanor to uphold or
justify organized insurrection of armed invasion.
  Rec/ulation of Teacliers (Code Ann. 19J,3. Sect. ^807) .—Loyalty oath statute.
  Incitement To Specific Acts of Violence ( {1849) Code Ann. 19^3, Sect. 5911).—
Applies to justifying armed invasion.

                                     WISCONSIN
  Exclusion From Ballot (WJ/l) Srssion Lan-s, May 13, pp. 145-6, eh. 105). No
                          (
                                                                                          —
party shall be recognized or qualitied to participate in any election if ;. filiated
directly or indirectly with communist party of the U. S. or the third conununist
international, nv any otlier foreign agenc.v. political party, etc., engaged in sub-
versive activities. The Secretary of State, with advice of Attorney General, shall
determine which parties are eligible. Provision for appeal to the courts.
   Criminal Anarchy {(1903) Stats. 1945, Sects. 347.14-18} .—It is a felony to
advocate, justify, tc, in any manner the doctrine that organized government
                   (


should be overthrown b.v force or violence, or by assassination of executive offi-
cials of government, or any unlawful means         —
                                                 org-inizing or becoming a member
of an organization, or voluntarily assembling with group advocating such doc-
trine is also a felony.  Editors, proprietors, etc., of publications are chargeable
with matter contained in such publications. Similar to New York and North
Carolina statutes in this respect. Penalty, o-lO years, up to $5,000 or both.

                                     WYOMING
  Exclusion From Ballot {(19J,r) Sess'ion Laws. Feb. 1, pp. 11-12, ch. 9).—
Excludes alien political parties. Similar to statutes in other states.
  Criminal Syndicalism ((1919) Comp. Stat. 1945, Atin. Art. 4, Sect. 9-401).                  —
Prohibits inciting, advising, advocation, suggesting or encouraging crime as a
means of coercion or for the accomplishment of any political or industrial reform,
change or purpose in Wyoming or in any foreign state or country. Offense termed
"incitement to crime" and made punishable up to 5 years. $5,000, or both. (Offend-
ers also subject to peace bond and commitment for default of such recognizance.
             REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                             45
                  Appendix C — State Statutes       (By Subject Matter)
  As a convenient reference, the state statutes, as         classified in   Appendix   li,
may be grouped and summarized as follows
                                            —
  lucitciHciit To Siiccific Acts of Violence.
                                                :


                                              14 states,
                                                       viz, Arkansas, Connecticut,
Horida, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey,
North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. Note, however, that
the Arkansas, Missouri, Kentucky, and Virginia statutes, instead of being
classified as "Incitement, etc.", are termed "Conspiracy" (To Commit Specific-
Acts of Violence). Also, the Maryland statute, a Civil War Measure, is now
obsolete and hardly shovild be included.
   Incitement to violence might be termed a mild form of conspiracy. These
statutes are narrower in scope than sedition, anarchy and syndicalism acts,
though somewhat overlap them, as heretofore indicated. The Colorado statute
very nearly approaches the classification of "Criminal Anarchy."
              —
   Sedition. 21 states, viz. Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana (limited to State Guard),.
Michigan, Montana, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Caro-
lina,    Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia.
   In this group have placed all broad statutes against radical utterances, except
tho.se which are entitled anarchy or syndicalism statutes.       The subject matter
also overlaps those acts against "Incitement To Specific Acts Of Violence."
                        —
   Criminal Anarchy. 12 states, viz, Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida,
Massachusetts. Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Wash-
ington, and Wisconsin.
   For the most part this group derives from the New York Act of 1902. The
Massachusetts and Vermont acts are narrower and might be classed under the
heading of "Incitement To Specific Acts Of Violence." The Colorado statute
is a combination of sedition and anarchy    ;   the Rhode Island statute, a combina-
tion of criminal syndicalism and anarchy.
   CriDiiiKil Si/ndicdlisin. —IS states, viz. California, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Ken-
tucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, Ohio, Oklahoma, Ore-
gon, Rhode Island, South Dakota. Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
   IJ .ret si on From Ballot.
        II
                               —
                               14 states, viz. Arkansas, California, Delaware, Illi-
nois, Indiana, Kansas, Oklahoma, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas,.
Wisconsin, and Wyoming.
   The statutes assume variable forms, though all seek to accomplish the same
purpose.
                                                             —
   Regulation of Schools, Teachers, Puhlic Officers, etc. 26 states, viz, Arizona,
Arkansas, California, Colorado. Florida, Georgia. Illinois. Indiana, Maryland
 (constitutional amendment). Massachusetts, Michigan. Montana, Nevada, North
Dakota, New Jersey, N'ew York, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Caro-
lina. South Dakota. Texas. Utah, Vermont, W^ashington, and West Virginia.
   These statutes are of recent vintage, all having been enacted during or since
W'orld Wai' II. The most common among them are the so-called "Teachers'
 Loyalty Oath Statutes" which exist in 20 of these states.

                                   MISCELLANEOrS
   In additii)n to the foregoing, there are various other types of state statutes
which are considered      to be of vicarious interest, but not of sufficient importance
to be reviewed individually. For the information of the Commission these are
classified :is follows, i. e.. Statutes:
                                   —
  Against Opposition To '\Vur. 13 states, viz, Florida, Iowa, Louisiana, Minne-
sota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Texas, West Virginia, Wisconsin.
                                                    —
  Against Red Flags and Other Insignia. 3.3 states, viz, Alabama, Arizona,
                                                                                             '




Ai-kansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware. Idaho, Illinois, Indiana^
Iowa, Kansas. Kentucky, Massachusetts, Michigan. Minnesota. INIontana, Ne-
braska, New Jersey. New Mexico, New York, North Dakota. Ohio, Oklahoma,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont, Washing-
ton. West Virginia, Wisconsin.
                         —
  Against Conspiracy. 87 states, viz, all except Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia,
Illinois. Kansas, Kentucky, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Vermont.
                                                    —
   Against Incitement To Crime Generally. 10 states, viz, Arizona, California,
Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Washing-
ton, Wyoming. Common law crime in certain other states.
46       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                       —
   Against Unlawful AssemMy. 43 states, viz, all except Arkansas, Indiana,
Maryland, Mississippi, and Tennessee. (Common law crime in some of the other
states, including Maryland. See Kaefer v. State, 143 Md. 151.)
   Special statutes are directed against the Ku Klux Klan and similar groups in
New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Texas, and Washington.
   Nebraska has a special statute requiring meetings to be held in the English
language, and New Hampshire has a special statute for licensing parades.
         —
   Note. There is included in virtually all criminal syndicalism statutes a pro-
vision against assembly for such unlawful purposes.
    Subversive Organizations Registration Act.      —3       states, viz., California, Michi-
gan,  New York.
    Oath Required of       —
       Legislators Arkansas.
                   :



       Presidential Electors Georgia.
                                   :


       State Guard Louisiana.
                       :


       Police Force Pennsylvania.
                       :




                                       APPENDIX         II

   In connection with reports issued from time to time, the Committee
 on Un-American Activities is cognizant of the fact that supporters of
'Communist-front organizations and even members of the Communist
Party, become clisilhisioned and aware of the true nature of the move-
ment. In fact it is an objective of the committee to hasten such dis-
ilhisionment and reeducation. The ccmimittee endeavors in its files
and reports to record such repudiation wherever possible, and wher-
ever there seems to be convincing evidence of genuine sincerity.
  In other cases where the committee may have erred in reference to an
individual or an organization, it desires to amend its records in order
to avoid any injustice.
  With these purposes in view the committee has decided to append
the follow^ing correspondence and testimony.

                                       ExECUTrvE Session
                           United States House of Representatives,
                                   Committee on Un-American Activities,
                              Washington, D. C, Wednesday, October 5, 1949.
  The committee met, pursuant to call, at 12 45 p. m., in room 226, Old House
                                                    :


Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding.
   Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood (chairman),
Morgan M. Moulder, Richard M. Nixon, Francis Case, and Harold H. Velde.
   Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Louis J. Russell,
senior investigator Donald T. Appell, investigator John W. Carrington, clerk
                       ;                                      ;                               ;



Benjamin Mandel, director of research and A. S. Poore, editor.
                                              :



  Mr. Wood. Mr. Cowherd, will you raise your right hand, please. You solemnly
swear the evidence you will give this committee will be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
  Mr. Cowherd. I do.

                               Testimony of Yelverton Cowherd
  Mr. Wood. Mr. Cowherd, the committee has received a request from you to ap-
pear before the committee for purposes stated in your communication, which
I understand had reference to a report issued by this committee in June 1947 on
Southern Conference for Human Welfare. Is that correct?
  Mr. Cowherd. That is correct yes, sir.;


  Mr. Wood. Our study of this report reveals that on page 4, and in the next to
the last paragraph, mention is made of you by name, and it reads as follows               :


   "Yelverton Cowherd, signer of a resolution against the Dies committee In
1939, who appeared before the La Follette committee in 1937 to defend the case
         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         47

of Joseph Gelders, was a member of the nominating committee at the first con-
ference, according to its official proceedings."
Is that the part of the report to which you take exception?
   Mr. CowHEUD. That is one part. Gentlemen, I had not anticipated su.ch a
quicli call.  I have a file on this at home, but didn't have a chance to get it. I
have it all pretty well in my head. I believe that is the part J. referred to as
a misstatement or misinference of fact.
   Mr. Wood. So far as we have been able to find, there is no other reference to
you in this report. Do you recall any other?
   Mr. CowHEBD. Strangely, this print does not have the same location of para-
graph as the copy I have. That paragraph, I believe, appeared at the top of a
page, perhaps the next page, on my copy, and the part that was disturbing to me
after I studied the whole report was that in the very beginning, in the part tell-
ing how the Southern Conference was formulated, there were inferences that
it seems to me supported a conclusion on the part of anybody uninformed that
I am positively a Communist or was positively a Communist.
   Mr. Wood. Will you point out to the committee where and in what manner this
report leaves such an inference, because certainly this committee does not want
to do an injustice to anybody   ;
                                    and I want you later to answer categorically
whether the statements of fact related in that paragraph are true or not true,
   Mr. CowHEKD. I knew nothing about the report or the consideration of that
matter until a university law professor wrote me a letter and asked permission
to include my case in an article which he said he was preparing for the Harvard
Law Review. Then I got a copy of the report, to see what it was all about, and
studied it carefully.
   This report, in the first paragraph of the introduction says : "In the early
history of the organization, some well-intentioned persons were misled into
joining.    Many of them have since severed their connections on learning its
true character," without putting a footnote and saying I was one of those who
had nothing to do with the conference and was never an official, as was done
with regard to Henry Fowler, that he had withdrawn and stating the reasons,
which reasons were exactly the same as my own.
   1 was never a member. I attended whenever the thing was announced.        As to
having served on the nominating committee, I simply don't recall. But that
paragraph did not go on to state the fact that I, too, had no longer associated
with the conference since 1942. When Paul Robeson appeared in Nashville I
threw   up my hands and have had nothing to do with it since.
  Mr.   Wood. Did you make any public statement about it?
  Mr.    CowHEKD. No. It had never reached that importance in my mind.
  Mr.    Wood. I believe the reason the committee made a footnote about Dr.
Graham was    that he made a public statement.
   Mr. Cowherd. No. They made the footnote about Henry Fowler. They didn't
do that about me, and they listed my name in the list of people where there was
an inference they were Communists.
   Being listed under the caption "Communist manipulation," I am an originator
of Communist manipulation to anybody reading this report they could not con-
                                                              ;


clude anything else and Dr. Graham and all the others will tell you I was the
                    ;


leader of the opposing faction, because I was area chairman of the Americaniza-
tion committee of the American Legion at that time.
   With regard to the statement that I appeared before the La Follette committee
in 1937 to defend the case of Joseph Gelders, I was particularly offended by that.
   Mr. Wood. Is it ti'ue or not?
   Mr. Cowherd. It is not true. I appeared before the committee, but not for
that purpose. I appeared as chairman of the Americanization committee of the
American Legion. The Senate Committee on Education and Labor was investi-
                                                                  —
gating the National Metal Trade Association, and it developed I didn't know it
     —
then that they were trying to tie up certain citizens in Birmingham with this
organization they were investigating, and one of the individuals had an unlisted
phone number and had been active with me in putting on Americanization com-
 mittee programs.
    Two FBI men came in my office one day and said they understood I had this
 individual's phone listing.   He is now a General in the United States Army.
 I will mention his name if you want it, but I don't think that is necessary. I said:


 "Yes, I know him. and he has assisted me on my programs for the Americanization
 committee."
    They said: "Do you have this telephone listing?" I pulled it out of my vest
 pocket and said: "Yes, that is true. What do you have in mind?"
48       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Being an attorney, I became cautious, and I said "Gentlemen. I believe I know
                                                     :



what you are after, and I have nothing to hide. If you will get the proper process,
telling me what documents you want, they will not disappear       ; I will produce
them." I thought they were to be produced in court. Later I got a subpena
duces tecum to appear before the La Follette committee and bring documents.
  In the course of that investigation, the name of Gelders was brought up,
but I didn't app'^ar to represent Gelders. I didn't defend him or condemn him.
I have known Jo                   —
                     Gelders heavens, he is about my age: I have known him
                      >




practically all l.v      His family is well thought of, but Joe has conducted
                          life.
himself in such a manner that he has been criticized. I know nothing about it,
and tried to find out about him. I said: "I don't know if J()e Gelders is a
Communist or not."' And I don't know to this day. I said: "However, I have
tried to find out about Joe Gelders, and everyone says he is honest."
                                                         —
   There had been a beating of a man at that time no, there had been a
beating of Joe Gelders, and he was found in a ditch in bad condition and he
was revived and brought back to health. This same man I had the number
of, who is now a (ieneral in the Army
                                           —
                                        no, he is now in the National Guard     —
came into my oflice the morning Joe Gelders was flogged, and he said "What:


are we going to do about this scoundrel Joe Gelders?" I said: "What do you
mean by 'we"? I am not going to do anything."
   Ml-. Nixon. Who is Joe Gelders?
   Mr. CowHEKD. He was active in the formation of this conference and gave
the impression, right or wrong, that he was acting directly for Mrs. Franklin
D. Roosevelt. Whether he was or not, I don't know, but he certainly gave that
impression.
   Mr. Nixon. This report says that Joseph Gelders "was formerly secretary of
the National Conmiittee for Defense of Political Prisoners, which has been
cited as subversive by Attorney General Biddle." The Daily Worker of April
6, 1938, reported that he protested against the ari-est of Communists in Chatta-
nooga. And the Sunday Worker of fiepttM;il)er S. 104il repoited that he was
leader of a lobby for the American Peace Mobilization which conducted a picket
line about the White House and denounced President Koosevelt as a "war
monger."
  That is the record that the committee report lias reference to.
  Mr. Case. Of course the worse the record of Joseph Gelders may be, the
greater the injustice would be of associating ]Mr. Gelders' name with Mr.
Cowherd seven or eight lines after mention of Mr. Gelders' record, if Mr.
Cowherd did not appear for Mr. Gelders.
  Mr. Cowherd. Tlie testimony will show I was under sultpena duces tecum
and the documents I produced were specified in the subpena.
  Mr. Wood. We have a copy of the hearing.
  Mr. Cowherd. It was an accurate report. It was sent to me for any correc-
tions,and I had none to make.
  The only time I read the Daily Worker was when I was told I was mentioned
in the Daily Worker as representing the rubber workers, and I got a copy
of the paper. I believe I wrote to the Daily Worker and got a copy, and as I
remember, the reference to me was that the rubber workers might well have
made a serious mistake in employing Yelverton Cowherd, the South's A-1
"lied baiter."
  Here is my name between John        P.   Davis and Edward E. Strong and James
W. Ford and Herman C. Nixon.
   Mr. Case. When was the first conference?
   Mr. Cowherd. As I remember, it was 1937.
   Mr. Case. When did you withdraw or abandon any interest in or affiliation
with the Southern Conference for Human Welfare?
                                                                 —
   Mr. Cowherd. I think it was after the conference in 1941 no, it couldn't
have been 1941 because I was in a hospital in 1941. It may have been 1942.
I have lived in Washington since May 1942 and it was before I came to Wash-
ington. It was after the Nashville conference.
   Mr. Nixon. In other words, you haven't had anything to do with the organiza-
tion since May 1942?
   Mr. Cowherd. Mr. Nixon, I had no connection with it at all. I liave had no
knowledge or information of it since then.
   Mr. Case. Did you serve as a member of the nominating committee at the
first conference?
   INIr. Cowherd. Mr. Case, I don't deny it but don't admit it. I don't remember.

   Mr. Case. You attended meetings?
                REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                      49

    Mr. CowHFRD.       I attended meetinu's until May 1942, hut let me make this clear:
I   was  a ('iti;':eii of Birmingham, practicing law in the tirm that had heen the
law tirm of Hugo lilack. I came into the lirm with Crampton Harris and his
stepson, George Brown. The United Stales Commissioner, tlie Honorable Louise
O. Charleton, invited me personally to attend the conference.           I was informed
my esteemed friend, Hugo Black, tlien Supreme Court Justice Black, was to
be presented the Southern Citizenship medal. All those things ticliled my pride
and I was glad to go to it.
   When I got there I discovered those things working, and then I got heated
about it and started working against them. The Honorable Louise O. Charleton
was the first chairman, and Dr. (Jraham was the tirst permanent chairman, and
with him I worked to keep those tilings out of the conference, and we finally
got the resolution through to fight all forms of imperialism or dictatorship.
   ^Iv. Case. (_"an you produce any records of tlie conference or newspaper reports
of the meetings which show your activities in that regard?
  Mr. Cowherd. It was not publicized in the newspapers, and I was not men-
tioned in the records because I was not an official, but just in attendance, but
Dr. Graham would verify what I am saying. I was a leader of the rightists
in rhe movement.
  Mr. CASE. I am reading from page IT of the report, where the conclusion is
set forth        :



   "The Southern Conference for Human Welfare is perhaps. the most deviously
camoutiaged Conununist-front organization. W^hen put to tlie following acid
test it reveals its true character:
   "1. It shows unswerving loyalty to the basic principles of Soviet foreign
policy.
    •'2.   It    has consistently refused to take sharp issue with the activities and
policies of either the        Communist Party, USA, or the Soviet Union.
    •'3.   It    has maintained in decisive posts persons who have the confidence of
the    Communist        press.
    "4. Ithas displayed consistent anti-American bias and pro-Soviet bias, despite
professions, in generalities, of love for America."
In other w^ords, you want the committee to understand that your activities in
the conference, to the extent you attended their sessions, were opposed to these
characteristics here described?
   Mr. Cowherd. D.finitel.v, because I had fought them all the way through.
   Mr. Wood. Are you sufficiently familiar with the later activities of the Southern
Conference for Human Welfare to give an opinion as to whether it did finally
come to the point wliere it represented these criticisms?
   Mr. Cowherd. INIr. Wood, I would be stating a falsehood if I stated that, but
it was going in that direction when I left it; that is why I left it.    I would say
the first, while it may be true now, certainly was not true at the time I left the
Southern Conference, because the Chattanooga confei'ence before that is the
one where we had the knock-down-drag-out fight on the resolution that Dr.
Graham put across to fight all forms of imperialism or dictatorship. They
opposed that resolution and wanted it to read to fight fascism only.
   I am probably too old to be hurt much by what happens, but my youngest
boy is 17 years (jld; he will be 18 in January. I was in the Navy and I know
from my experience how his chances of promotion would be hurt if this name
Yelverton Cowherd is not cleared up. He has the same name. That is a peculiar
name. It is easy to peg and not easily forgotten, and it has not been smeared
for 212 years. It appears in the records of Virginia since 17o7. I just hate to
pass that kind of name on to Jimior through any laxity on my part to see that
this is cleared up in as dignified a manner as it appears.
  I have to brag.    I don't know any way out of it.     I know I am pure on this
kind of charge. I have spent my life fighting this kind of thing I have been
charged with espousing.
   Mr. Case. Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that this gentleman .should have an
opportunity, if he so desires, to file anything in the nature of a statement by
Dr. Graham or anybody else to attest to wh/it he is saying.
   Mr. Wood. I was about to suggest to the committee that we permit Mr. Cowherd
to file any summary he desires.
   Mr. Case. On the statement that he has made here as to the facts, I can see
tliat if I had left the Southern Conference for Human Welfare for the reasons
he said he left it, he wouldn't want his name to be used and identified as it is
identified here, in connection with an organization that is labeled as this organi-
zation      is   labeled in this report.
  Mr. Nixon. What you mean is that if Dr. Graham, for example, could give a
letter or statement to Mr. Cowherd that he, in turn, could give the committee.
50      REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

to the effect that what Mr. Cowherd has stated was according to his memory too^
that we would have some corroboration?
  Mr. Case. I have never seen this man before today, but he has been very posi-
tive in his statements, and I think he sliould have the opportunity to present some
corroborating material.
  Mr. Wood. Without objection on the part of any member of the committee, I
will say to you that the committee will be glad to see such information of that
nature as you can furnish it. I would like to ask you one further question
                 Did you sign a resolution against the Dies committee in 1939?
categorically.
                            —                               —
  Mr. Cowherd. As I recall I don't recall dates, of course I am glad you asked
the question. The only thing in my life I have ever joined which has later
become known to me to be classified as a Communist-front organization was the
National Lawyers' Guild. I did join that. They circulated such a resolution.
A number of lawyers' names were on it, among whom was the one man I regarded
as sufficient proof of authenticity and character for me to put my name, and that
was Charlie Fahey. I put my name on it, on a resolution, and I won't say this
was not the same resolution. I signed some resolution saying, in effect, that
the methods of the Dies committee in pul)lishing things about citizens without
                                                        —
affording those citizens ample time to discredit them just such a thing as is
              —
involved here was a bad practice or un-American. I was still in Alabama at
that time. Later I noticed in the newspapers that Charlie Fahey had dropped
out of the National Lawyers' Guild, and I dropped out.
  Mr. Wood. You don't maintain membership in that organization now?
  Mr. Cowherd. No, sir. I knew CharUe Fahey in Alabama. When he withdrew
I did too, immediately.
  Mr. Nixon. You withdrew because of the basic reason that it was Communist-
infiltrated is that it?
          ;


   Mr. Cowherd. I didn't have any specific reason. When I saw Charlie Fahey's
reason, he was rather politic about it but I could see he suspected it was under
Communist domination, he may even have said it was, and when I saw that I
withdrew.
  Mr. Case. How did you withdraw?
  Mr. Cowherd. I simply did not pay my next year's dues.
  Mr. Case. You definitely did withdraw?
  Mr. Cowherd. Yes.
  Mr. Case. When was that?
  Mr. Cowherd. Back in 1940 sometime.
  Mr. Case. There isn't a member of this committee I know of Avho wants to
penalize the sincere efforts of anybody to see that underprivileged people, or peo-
ple unable to sjk -i!: for themselves, have an adequate voice to right any injus-
tice that may be carried on against them and for myself I feel those efforts at
                                           ;

some time could be attended with some risks. A person's motives can some-
times be misinterpreted. I think the tactics of the whole Communist organiza-
tion is to cash in on sympathy that people may have for people who are under-
privileged. That is what makes it a risk sometimes, because they attempt to
capitalize on that.
  For that very reason,   I, personally, would want the committee's conduct to
be circumspect and not penalize people who seek to right injustices of various
sorts.  I wouldn't want the committee to be guilty of doing that.  At the same
time, we have to try to carry out the functions of this committee, and that is
to expose the activities of Communist-front organizations, or the Communist
Party itself, to utilize people and organizations. It is wholly a question of
facts.  I think your statement here has been very straightforward.     You got
short notice and came up here without reference to material or books, and your
statement has been very direct and straightforward, and while 1 still have an
open mind on the thing, I did think you should have this opportunity, and I ap-
preciate what the chairman has said, that opportunity would be given you to
present supplementary material.
   Mr. Cowherd. I only know of one thing, and that would be a statement by
Dr. Frank Graham.
   Mr. Case. You referred to having served on the American Legion commit-
tee for Americanization.
  Mr. Cowherd. That is right.
  Mr. Case. And it was in connection with that you really went before the
La Follette committee?
  Mv. Cowherd. That is right. In other words, there was an unlisted phone
in the ofl^ice of the United States Steel subsidiary in Birmingham. In that
                 REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                    51

office,right next door to the chief of police of the Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad
Co., was a phone the number of which, we will say, was Main 1313. That is not
the number. It had a 4 and a 6 in it. They had not been able to prove, ap-
parently, that that phone was actually in those oflices, but by proving I had
the listing of this individual who was in that office, and that was the phone over
which I called him, they used that to show the Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad
Co. was helping the National Metal Trades Association at that time. That was
the missing link.
  Mr. Case. How did you become a member of the Americanization committee
of the American Legion?
  Mr. Cowherd. I was very active in the American Legion. In fact, I was
commander.
  Mr. Case. State commander?
   Mr. Cowherd. No, Birmingham commander. At that time George Grant, my
Congressman, was State commander. Congressman Grant knows me intimately.
Incidentally, he told me he was supposed to be in attendance at the conference
too. Brooks Hays was there.
   Mr. Case. Did George Grant have anything to do with your being chairman
of the Americanization committee?
•  Mr. Cowherd. No. There was a county council, and they were trying to co-
ordinate the work of the council under one head, and I was selected by this
council to be area chairman to coordinate the work of the 14 posts.
   Mr. Case. Did George Grant know anything about your activities in that con-
nection?
      Mr. Cowherd.I am sure lie will recall it, because he was active 200 miles
farther       the State. Albert Rains is my intimate friend George Grant Bob
                 down                                            ;            ;


Jones Brooks Hays Lister Hill John Sparkman we are all friends.
             ;                      ;       ;                ;


  Mr. Case. Are those men familiar with the fact that you were trying to pre-
vent the southern conference from going Communist?
  Mr. Cowherd. Brooks Hays would. He was in attendance. George Grant did
not attend. Dr. Graham would be. They are the only Members of Congress
I    know        at this time   who would know about   it.
        IMoulder. Judging from your background and from the testimony you
      ^Ir.
have given here, it appears to me you certainly are justified in appearing before
the committee to vindicate and redeem your name in the report you referred to.
May I suggest that in the event nothing further appears to refute this state-
ment, the committee, if the facts so justify, should make a finding and order of
record to redeem and vindicate your name and to remove this reference you have
referred to.
   Mr. Cowherd. That is the most I could hope for, and I tliought this was an
ethereal dream. I didn't think tlie committee would go that far.
   Mr. Wood. The furthest thing from the mind of this committee is to injure
the reputation of anyone.
   Mr. Nixox. I would suggest it might be issued as an addendum to the report,
such as the note concerning Mr. Fowler, stating that upon hearing testimony
by Mr. Cowherd the following facts were brought out and are presented to com-
plete the record. In that connection, it seems to me tlie points that should be
developed in any corroboi-ative statements by Mr. Hays or Senator Graham would
be, first, that you were in the anti-Communist bloc in the Southern Conference
for Human Welfare and that you left that organization in 1942. Second, I think
it would be well to mention you were a member of the National Lawyers' Guild
and left at the time the split occurred between Communists and anti-Communists.
   I mention those two facts because tliose are additional facts which definitely
    would tend  to establish an anti-Communist attitude.
      Mr. Case. And possibly George Grant or somebody familiar with your Ameri-
    can Legion activities may add a statement about your activities in connection
    with the Americanization committee of the American Legion.
      Mr. Cowherd. As a matter of fact, Mr. Chaillaux, the national director, was
    the one responsible for my appointment.
      Mr. Case. And he made the strongest speech against communism I have ever
    heard.
      Mr. Wood. Get us that information at your earliest convenience, and the com-
    mittee then will take such action as the facts seem to warrant.
      We are very grateful to you for coming here.
      Mr. Cowherd. I am grateful to you gentlemen, as this has had me disturbed.
       (Thereupon, at 1 10 p. m. on Wednesday, October 5, 1949, the hearing was
                                :



    adjourned.)
.52      REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                APPENDIX           III

  The  following: correspondence and accompanying material is self'
explanatory and will clarify the status of various persons and organi
zations which have been mentioned in certain reports of the Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities.
          Easteen Division, Czechosi,ovak National Council of Amekica,
                                                             June 30, 1949.
Hon. Isidore Dollingee,
    House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
  Dear Sir: This is to confirm the telephone conversation  of Mr. Valucliek with
yon on Jnne 28th, concerning the statement which appeared in the New Yorli
Times on June 26tli about the American Slav Congress, issued by the Un-American
Committee of the House.
  The letter which we intend to send to the New York Times, I believe, explains
the whole matter and proves without fear of contradiction that the Eastern
Division of the Czechoslovak National Council, located in New York City, nor
their officers, could be connected in any way with either the American Slav
Congress, or with any un-American activities.
  Thus I would appreciate it very much if you would take this matter up with
the Un-American Committee, so that we could get some satisfaction and that
our records, which were smeared unjustly, could be cleared.
  If it is necessary, we are willing to appear either liefore the Committee, its
representatives, or any member of the Department of Justice, because
                                                                         we feel
there could be and should be no doubt about our love of democracy and the
United States.
  Anything you can do in this matter, would be highly appreciated.
       Very truly yours,
                                                            John Drahos,
       President, Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak National Council,
          811 Crotona Park N., Bronx 60, N. Y.

 To the Editor of the New York Times      :




   According to the New York Times of June     26, 1949, the Report of the House
 Un-American Activities Committee on the American Slav C/ongress listed among
 the organizations "actively associated with the American Slav Congress," an
 organization named as "The Czechoslovak National Council of America, New
 York City."
   There is no organization listed under this name in New York City. However,
 there exists in New York City an organization named the Eastern Division of
 the Czechoslovak National Council in U. S. A. and in order to set the record
 straight its Executive Committee declares:
   1. The Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak National Council
                                                                      in U. S. A.
 even durine the highest wartime collaV)oration between the Soviet Union and
 the United States of America did not directly or indirectly associate itself
                                                                              and
                                                                           in the
 cooperate with the American Slav Congress. It was neither represented
 National Committee nor in the local New York group of the American Slav
 €ongress.                                                          -r..    .   . „ ^i
    2. After the liberation of Czechoslovakia in 194n, the
                                                            Eastern Division of the
 Czechoslovak National Council went into an    inactive status pending    the reorgan-
 ization of its parental organization, the Czechoslovak National Council in
                                                                                  USA
 at Chicago. Again during this period      no contat  t or association    of any kind
 was made or even remotely attempted wth the American Slav Congress.
    3 After tlie Communist coup d'etat in Czechoslovalda, the decision was
                                                                                 made
                                                                                of the
 by the participatinu' organizations to reactivate the Eastern Division             nor
  Czechoslovak Nati«mal Council in the I'SA with neither the Communist
 P'ascist organization Ix^ing allowed to bee me members of the new organization.
    The reestablished Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak National Council
  in USA then held a public meeting on March 10, 1949, commemorating
                                                                              the 99th
                                                                         of Czechoslo-
 birthday anniversary of Thomas G. Masaryk, the first President                        of
  vakia "The princijial speakers were Hon. John W. Gibson, assistant secretary
 Labor, Col. John Bennett, deputy Mayor of New York City,
                                                                and Dr. Petr Zenkl.
 chairman of the Council for Free Czechoslovakia, an anti-Communist organiza-
 tion of the Czechoslovak democratic refugees. All speakers, as well as the repre-
           REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       53

sentatives of the Council, denounced communism and Communist policies, botii
here and abroad. More than 2,000 persons participated. (See New York Times,
March    11, 1949.)
  4.   Ou May        1949, the Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak National
                  Tth,
Council in the USA, called a convention of democratic American Czechoslovak
organizations in the East. Again Communist and Fascist groups were excluded.
The convention officially approved the re-activation of the Council, invited all
democratic American Czechoslovak organizations in the East to join the Council
and participate in its anti-Communist activities. It also declared unanimously
its moral Support, in accordance with existing U. S. laws, of the Council of
Free Czechoslovakia, fighting for the liberation of Czechoslovakia from Com-
munist dictatorship. It approved plans for extended help to the democratic
Czech and Slovak refugees from Communist terror. The convention passed also
a resolution addressed to U. S. President, Harry S. Truman, which read in part:
   "At this convention we wish to convey to you our assurances that Americans
of Czechoslovak origin are deeply loyal to democratic ideals of the United States
of America and sincerely devoted to this, our country. The loss of democracy
in Czechoslovakia, the country of our forbears, has brought to us a new real-
ization of the liberties enjoyed in all equality and a deeper sense of obligation
to <mr nation for all Freedoms so justly guaranteed by our Constitution.
   "We wish further to thank you for your leadership in the alleviation of suffer-
ing throughout the world, and for your firm determination to safeguard world
peace as well as your staunch efforts against totalitarian aggression.
   "Please accept our assurances that Americans of Czechoslovak origin will
always be among the fir.st to rise to the defense of American democracy against
any enemy, internal or external."
  This resolution was duly noted by the White House, and by the State Depart-
ment, as confirmed by a special letter of the latter to the Executive Secretary
of the Council.
  5. Ever since the public announcement of the re-activation of the Eastern
Division of the Czechoslovak National Council, the organization and its repre-
sentatives have been a target of violent and slanderous attacks by the American
Communist press. Some of its leaders were even attacked by the Czechoslovak
Comnumist radio in its shortwave broadcasts directed to this country. All
this is a matter of public record and anyone interested so deeply in the subversive
activities in this country as the House Committee should be, could not possibly
overlook these facts.
  6. The House Committee on Un-American Activities obviously did not even
bother to check up on its information, especially its source, because during the
investigation of the American Slav Congress activities not one of the Committee's
investigators or members cared to approach the representatives of the Eastern
Division of the Czechoslovak National Council in USA to check up the veracity
and objectivity of given information.
  7. The fact that the same Committee Report        (as quoted by the New York
Times) lists among tlie so-called "loyal groups" one organization, named the
Slovak League of America, supports the foregoing impressions about the Com-
mittee's neglect to check up the reliability in its own material.      The Slovak
League of America was in this country during the last war a fanatical de-
fender and spokesman of the Nazi Slovak puppet state and ardent proponent
of its Fascist ideology. ITiis is also a matter of public record. And the same
Slovak League of America is now conducting a violent campaign of hate against
the Czechoslovak democratic liberation movement and its leaders, united in the
Council of Free Czechoslovakia. Thus this so-called "loyal" organization is
attempting to create dangerous dissensions and splits among tlie Americans of
Slovak origin, preventing the formation of an effective and united anti-Com-
munist front among all Czechoslovaks abroad.          Since the Council of Free
Czechoslovakia was .sanctioned l)y the U. S. authorities, this "Slovak League of
America" is working against the present American foreign policy and against
the best interests of this country. It is no coincidence that among its leaders
one will find notorious rabble rou-sers and demagogues. One of them was even
convicted to Sing Sing prison for five years for the land frauds which he helped
to organize among the Slovak immigrants under the guise of Slovak chauvinism.
   Finally, the fact that among the so-called "loyal" organizations, mostly Cath-
olic groups ai'e listed by the Committee, giving certainly the impression of bias
and    partiality.
54       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   It is to be regretted that the House Committee on Un-American Activities,
by such poorly prepared, organized, and documented report is once more defeating
its own commendalile purpose, and giving aid and comfort to the Communists
and their fellovp-travelers.
  The Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak National Council in the USA will
continue in its anti-Communist and democratic efforts among the Americans of
the Czech and Slovak origin in the East undeterred by the Committee's unfair,
unjust and irresponsible accusations of loyal Americans.



                                      Congress of the United States,
                                                House ov Uepresextatives,
                                              Washington, D. C, July 8, 19 '{9.
Hon. John S. Wood,
    Chairman, Committee on Vn-American Activities,
        House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
  Dear Mr. AYood Enclosed is a copy of the letter I received from the Eastern
                    :


Division of the Czechoslovak National Council, and a copy of their letter to the
New York   Times.
  They are requesting that they be given     tlie opportunity to appear before
your committee in order that they may clear their record and show that their
being placed on the list of those actively associated with the American Slav
Congress, was an error which should be corrected.
  Your courtesy in giving this request your favorable consideration, would be
appreciated. Please let me know what action you decide to take.
  Thanking you for your attention, I am
      Sincerely youi's,
                                                       Isidore Dollinger, M. C.


                                                                  JU1.T 12, 1949.
Honorable Isidore Dolungeir,
       House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
  Dear Colleague I have received your letter of July
                        :
                                                          8, 1949, enclosing a com-
plaint from the Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak National Council of Amer-
ica alleging that an error was made in listing this organization in our report on
the American Slav Congress and associated organizations.
   The Committee's report, on page 5, simply reprints the statement made during
the proceedings of the second All-Slavonic meeting held in Moscow in 1942 that
greetings were received from the Czechoslovak National Council of America.
The report, on page 5, mentions the fact that the proceedings of the second All-
Slavonic meeting were published in pamphlet form in English by the Foreign
Languages Publishing House in Moscow in 1942.
   Page 17 of the Committee report states, under the heading "Second American
 Slav Congress," that "credentials submitted to the conference showed the fol-
lowing organizations as represented"   :  Tlie name of the Czechoslovak National
Council appears as one of the organizations represented. The statement is based
on the fact that the published proceedings of the Second American Slav Congress,
held at Carnegie Music Hall in Pittsburgh on September 23 and 24, 1944, states
that greetings were submitted by the Czechoslovak National Council.
   Between pages 24 and 25 of the report, a photograph appears which was taken
from the Souvenir Joui'nal, Rally to Win the Peace, Third American Slav Con-
gress, held in New York on September 20. 21, and 22, 1946. It should be noted
that the name of Joseph Martinek, Executive Secretary, Czechoslovak National
Council, appears in the descriptive data applying to the photograph mentioned.
   The statements made in the Committee's report are all based on documents
issued by the American Slav Congress or one of its aflSliates. It must be realized
that there ai'e many organizations among the foreign-language groups which
have similar names. In fact, the Communists sometimes adopt such names for the
purpose of misleading the public.
   In this connection, I should like to draw your attention to the footnote appear-
ing at the bottom of page 17 of the American Slav Congress report which
indicates how names of organizations are sometimes confused. The footnote
points out that a previous publication of the Committee referred to the Polish-
American Labor Council as a Communist organization. However, the name
of the subversive organization should have been the American-Polish Labor
        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                            55

Council. It is set forth in the footnote that this error was caused by a mistake
in translation.
   I am today communicating with tlie Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak
National Council to advise the oflScers of the organization that the Committee
will be glad to correct any erroneous impressions which might have been created
by its report on the American Slav Congress.
  A copy of the Committee's report on the American Slav Congress is trans-
mitted herewith.
        Sincerely yours,
                                                    John    S.   Wood, Chairman.
  Enclosure.

                                                                   JUI.Y 12, 1949.
Mr. John Drahos,
     President, Eastern Division, Csechoslovak National Conncil,
          811 Crotona Park, Bronx GO, New York.
   Dear Mr. Drahos The Honorable Isidore Dollinger has referred to the Com-
                        :


mittee on Un-American Activities the letter which he received from you and a
copy of your letter to the New York Times with respect to the inclusion of the
Czechoslovak National Council of America in the Committee's report on the
American Slav Congress and associated organizations.
   The Committee's report, on page 5, simply reprints the statement made during
the proceedings of the second All-Slavonic meeting held in Moscow^ in 1942 that
greetings were received from the Czechoslovak National Council of America. The
report, on page 5, mentions the fact that the proceedings of the second All-
Slavonic meeting were published in pamphlet form in English by the Foreign
Languages Publishing House in Moscow in 1942.
   Page 17 of the Committee report states, under the heading "Second American
Slav Congress," that "credentials submitted to the conference showed the follow-
ing organizations as represented "The name of the Czechoslovak National Coun-
                                 :


cil appears as one of the organizations represented."   The statement is based on
the fact that the published proceedings of the Second American Slav Congress,
held at Carnegie Music Hall in Pittsburgh on September 23 and 24, 1944, states
that greetings were submitted by the Czechoslovak National Council.
   Between pages 24 and 2.j of the report, a photograph appears which was taken
from the Souvenir Journal, Rally to Win the Peace, Third American Slav Con-
gress, held in New York on SeptWuber 20, 21, and 22, 1946.     It should be noted
that the name of Joseph Martinek, executive secretary, Czechoslovak National
Council, appears in the descriptive data applying to the photograph mentioned.
   If the information set forth in the Committee's report does not conform with
the facts, the Committee will be glad to receive from you a statement which will
be made a part of the Committee's file on the American Slav Congress and asso-
ciated organizations.
       Very truly yours,
                                                     John   S.   Wood, Chairman.


                                      Congress of the United States,
                                              House of Representatives,
                                              Washington, D. C, July 21, 1949.
Mr. Charles M. Prchal,
    President, Czechoslovak National Conncil of America,
         2S45 South Kedzie Avenue, Chicago 23, Illinois.
  Dear Me. Prchal Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of July 18, 1949, with
                    :



respect to the inclusion of the Czechoslovak National Council of America in the
report of the Committee on Un-American Activities on the American Slav Con-
gress and associated organizations.
  The Committee's report, on page .5, simply reprints the statement made during
the proceedings of the second All-Slavonic meeting held in Moscow in 1942 that
greetings were received from the Czechoslovak National Council of America.
The report, on page 5, mentions the fact that the proceedings of the second All-
Slavonic meeting were published in pamphlet form in English by the Foreign
Languages Publishing House in INIoscow in 1942.
  Page 17 of the Committee report states, under the heading "Second American
Slav Congress," that "credentials submitted to the conference showed the follow-
ing organizations as represented :" The name of the Czechoslovak National
Council appears as one of the organizations represented. The statement is based
56             REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

on the fact that the published proceedings of the Second American Slav Congress,
held at Cai-negie Music Hall in Pittsburgh on September 28 and 24, 1944, states
that greetings were submitted by the Czechoslovalv National Council.
   Between pages 24 and 25 of the report, a photograph appears which was talven
from the Souvenir Journal, Rally to Win the Peace, Third American Slav Con-
gress, held in New York on September 20, 21, and 22, 194(i.     It should be noted
that the name of Joseph Martinek, executive secretary, Czechoslovak National
Council, appears in the descriptive data applying to the photograph mentioned.
   The Committee, in its report, recognized that certain persons and organiza-
tions formerly connected with the American Slav Congress may have withdrawn
without such action having been brought to the attention of the Committee. The
Committee on Un-American Activities is happy to learn that the Czechoslovak
National Council of America, including its Eastern Division, is no longer af-
filiated with the American Slav Congress and, in fact, is actually denouncing it
and its policy among the Czechoslovak people within the United States.
   The material which you enclosed with your letter of July 18 will be made a
part of the Committee's file on the American Slav Congress and associated
organizations.
       Sincerely yours,
                                                                       John   S.   Wood. Chnlrnuin.


Telephone Bishop 7-5397

Officers John A. Cervenka, Honorary President Charles M. Prchal, President John VoUer,
           :                                               ;                              ;

  Vice President Martha Kralik, Vice President Ladislav Janik, Secretary Frank Zak^
                         ;                                      ;                             :


  Treasurer Blanche J. Cihak, Executive Secretary
                 ;




                             Czechoslovak National Council of Amkkica
                                        234 5   south KEDZIE AVENUE
                                                Chicago   23,   111.
                                                                                   July ISth,     1940.
The Committee on Un-Amekican                      Activities,
    House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
  Gentlemen According to your report on the American Slav Congress,
                     :                                                                                    as
quoted by the New York Times, on June 26, 1949, the "Czechoslovak National
Council of America, New York City," was included among organizations "ac-
tively associated with the American Slav Congress."
  This informati' u is untrue, incorrect, unjust, and misleading.
  1. There is no organization listed as the "Czechoslovak National Council of

America, New I'ork." The headquartex's of our organization is, and has been
for decades, located in Chicago, Illinois. Our New York branch is known as
the Eastern Division of the Czechoslovak National Council of America."
   2. The Czechoslovak National Council of America is not and never has been
Communistic or sympathetic to Communism. Paragraph 5, Article III of its
constitution as adopted in 1942 and ratified unanimously by all subsequent con-
ventions, explicitly states         :



   "This organization will not be sub.iected to any foreign control, nor will engage
in any military activity or efforts to organize, control, or overthrow the govern-
ment by the use of force, violence, or military means."
  3. The Czechoslovak National Council of America, with headquarters in Chi-
cago, refused to participate in the original Slavic Committees, wliich were spon-
sored by the Communists and their sympathizers in the summer of 1941.                                 We
joined the American Slav Congress only when, on the motion of our representa-
tives, this organization obtained a letter of clarification from our Department
of State.       We
                have been known as an outstanding non-Communist group in the
American Slav Congress and our representatives strictly adhered to the advice
given by the Department of State in the mentioned letter of clarification.
   4. The Czechoslovak National Council of America cooperated with the Ameri-
can Slav Congress during the war, in order to secure and to fafilitate a steady
and uninterrupted flow of production in tlie heavy war industries, which were
employing al)OUt 50 percent of tlie workers of Slavic origin, and in order tfu
support the war efforts of our government in the struggle against Nazism.
   After the war when the American Slav Congress began to follow the changed
Communist party line and to support new totalitarianism, the Czechoslovak
National Council terminated its relations with the American Slav Congi-ess.
          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                             57

   Prof. J. J. Zinrlial, former president of the Czechoslovak National Council of
America, and until the last convention of the American Slav Congress vice presi-
dent of the A. S. C, ceased to be president of our organization after our con-
vention, held in 1945, and has not l)een active among us since that time. Even
he repudiated the American Slav Congress by a public statement, in 1948, when
that organization became active in support of Henry A. Wallace.
   r>. Since the Communist overthrow of the democratic government of Czechoslo-
vakia, the Czechoslovak National Council f)f America became rhe central organ-
ization of Americans of Czechoslovak descent, who are opposed to communism
,)nd strive t" liberate their old couiitry from the new yoke of totalitarianism.
Our conventions, held in May and in December 1948, in Chicago, became the
rallying points of opposition to communism and all totalitarian policies, uphold-
ing the democratic principles and the Constitution of our country, and demanding
restitution of democracy in Czechoslovakia. Enclosed please find the copies of
our English bulletin the "American Czechoslovak Flashes" stating our policies.
   6. The Czechoslovak National Council of America is not only not associated
with the American Slav Congress, but is actively opposing its policies in our pub-
lications "The American Czechoslovak Flashes." the Americke Hlasy (The
American Voices) and in the "Press Service of the Czechoslovak National Council
of America" and denouncing the support, given by the American Slav Congress to
the totalitarian regimes in the Slavic countries. In its turn we were attacked in
the publications supporting the American Slav Congress, and our leading mem-
bers were included by them in the list of "ex-kings and traitors" to the so-called
"Peoples Democracy."
   7. What we state about our organization applies fully to the Eastern Division
of the Czechoslovak National Council in New York.
   In view of these easily verified facts, it is evident that your committee obtained
its information about our organization from a biased and unfair source which
deserves to be checked and investigated as it created harm trying to split the
anti-Communist front among the Americans of Czechoslovak origin.
   We ask you respectfidly to correct the wrong impression of our organization
created by your report on the American Slav Congress.
         Resi>ectful!y yours,
                                      Czechoslovak National Couxcil of America,
                                (S)   Charles M. Prchal
                                      Charles M. Prchal, Pres.
   (S)   Lad. .Tanik
         Lad. .Tamk, Secrcturn.


                                 [Kelease No.   1,   March 1949]

                                      NEWS FLASHES
Published by     tlie   Czechoslovak National Council of America,    234.5   S.   Kedzie
                               Avenue, Cliicago 23, Illinois

                 Why     the New American Czechoslovak Flashes

  There were .several reasons for the decision made by the convention of the
Czechoslovak National Council of America to renew the publication of tlie
American Czechoslovak Flashes which was suspended in October 1947.
   First, it was recognized that since two-thirds of the Americans of Czechoslovak
origin are composed now of the native-born citizens (of 1,004,800 persons who
have declared Czech or Slovak language as their mother tongue in the census
of 1940 only 331,2(X> were foreign born). There is need for a publication in
Engli.sh, devoted to their interests.    This group is more unified than the older
groups.      Its members have a common American backgrotnid.          To them not
Czech or Slovak, but English is the principal means of expression. Among them
the differences dividing their fathers in the past and emanating from the Old
World background, are reduced to a minimum. This group was fairly repre-
sented at the convention of the Council last December, and its representatives
expressed the wish to participate more actively in the leadei'ship of the nation-
ality group to which they belong.     They believe that the days have passed when
mostly the voices of immigrants spoke for Americans of Czechoslovakian origin.
58       REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  The second reason   for renewal of this bulletin is the recent political upheaval
in Czechoslovakia.    The community  of democratic ideologies between Czechoslo-
vakia and the United States of America ceased to exist when the Communist&
took over the government of Czechoslovak Republic and established their dictator-
ship.   The Czeclioslovakian democracy, so intimately related to our own wa&
destroyed in February 1948. Because the vast majority of Americans of Czecho-
slovak origin remain true to the ideals and principles of democracy and abhor
totalitarian i-egimes everywhere, it is necessary to take a firm stand against
totalitarianism in Czechoslovakia and to protect ourselves against the infiltration
of its ideology. The Communist regime of Czechoslovakia is trying to gain favor
among the Americans of Czechoslovakian descent. This effort is by no means
limited to the immigrants. A flood of literature in English as well as in Czech
and Slovak is pouring from Prague and Bratislava to our American societies and
even into American public libraries under the pretext of exchange of cultural
information.    Counteracting this propaganda is the duty of all freedom and
democracy loving Americans.
  It also was the consensus of the opinion at the convention that an intensified
effortshould be made to spread the knowledge of the history, the languages and
the cultural heritage of the Czechoslovakian people who survived the persecution
of the Hapsburgs and of Hitler's Nazis, and who will succeed in regaining their
independence and will again play an important part in the destinies of Europe
and the world. This cultural endeavor must be carried out by our own means as
no real help can be expected from Prague and Bratislava. The Communist cul-
ture is unacceptable to Americans. The dLssemination of cultural information
must not become a wedge of propaganda inimical to the principles and ideals of
American and' Czechoslovakian democracy.

                   Second to None in Defense or Teue Democracy
  At the National Convention of Czech and Slovak Societies and Organizations
which was held in Chicago on December 4-5, 1948. under the sponsorship of the
Czechoslovak National Council of America the following appeal was issued and
signed by the native-born delegates   :



^'To Native-Born Americans of Czechoslovak Parentage:
   "Brothers and Sisters During the two world conflicts we enjoyed almost com-
                          :




plete coincidence of the ideologies as well as community of national interests
between the United States of America and Czechoslovakia.
   "These democracies, led by our great Presidents Woodrow Wilson and F. D.
Roosevelt, and Czechoslovakian presidents Masaryk and Benes heartily cooper-
ated in the struggles against the powers of aggression and in the defense of
their liberties.
  "This community of ideologies and interests came to an unhappy end when
the Communists effected their Coup d'Etat in Prague in February 1948 and
destroyed the Czechoslovakian democracy by brute force.
  "The establishment of a totalitarian regime in the country of our ancestors,
a regime to which we as true democrats are unalterably opposed, casts its
shadow even among our nationality group in the United States of America.
   "We deem it, therefore, our duty to proclaim solemnly and strongly that we
detest the rule of brute force and that we oppose any attempt to spread the
poison of totalitarian ideology among ourselves.
   "In order to unify our opposition to dictatorship we call upon all native-born
Americans of Czech and Slovak parentage to give full support to efforts of the
Czechoslovak National Council of America ( Ceckosloven.ska narodui rada v
 Americo) 2345 S. Kedzie Avenue, Chicago 23, 111., in its endeavor to maintain
 true democracy among our people.
   "Brothers and Sisters: Of the Americans of Czechoslovakian ancestry fully
 two-thirds belong to us, native citizens. It is high time for iis to t^aise our voices
 in order to protect our voices in order to protect our good name in this country
 and let the Woi'ld knotv that our group remains' second to none in defense of true
 democracy and liherty.
           "Bozena B. Spackova, Betka Kontos, Martha Kralik, Joseph Triner,
               John F. Brezina, Andrew J. Valusek, Anna Falta, Andrew J.
               Laska, Edward Rezabek, Joseph E. Peck, James Krakora, Julius
               Kuchynka, Frank Bardoun, John Golosinec, John J. Lisy, Rose
               Sterba, Blanche J. Cihak, Vlasta Dvorak-Bezkostny."
        REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                          59

        ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVEKSAKT OF FIRST CZECH SOCIETY IN AMERICA
  A very rare and important anniversary will be celebrated next year by the
Americans of Czechoslovakian origin. One hundred years ago, early in January
1850. a Czech society was founded in New York City.
  This was the first Czech society organized in the United States of America.
The first immigrants from Czechoslovakia had arrived in America at a much
earlier date.  The first Czech immigrant was Augustin Herman of Maryland
fame, who came to New Amsterdam in 1633. During the eighteenth century the
Moravian Brethren came and established their settlement in Savannah, Georgia,
in 1735.  They founded the town of Bethlehem in Pennsylvania in 1741. But
this originally Czech church included many of other nationalities beside the
handful of Czechs. It was only after a new wave of immigration following the
upheavals of 1848 in Europe that the ground work for an organized Czech social
life in this country was laid.
   According to Thomas Capek this first Czech club, which was organized for
benevolent and educational purposes, was known as the Czechoslavonian Society
in America. Others claim that the name was The First Czecho-Slavonian So-
ciety.   Its headquarters were located at 14 City Hall Place on the site of tho
present Municipal Building in New York. It was organized on the initiative of
Vojta Naprstek, a Czech patriot and a political refugee who came to this country
in December 1848 in order to escape tlie clutches of the Austrian police who
sought to arrest him for participation in the rebellion against the State. He
became a librarian of the society, which disbanded in a year or two. The second
and more successful organization of this kind was founded later in 1854 in
St. Louis, Mo., Bohemian Slavonic Benevolent Society (CSPS).       It still exists,
under the name of Czechoslovak Society of America (CSA) and is known as
the oldest American fraternal union in existence.
   The Czechoslovak National Council of America is preparing a celebration o£
the 100th anniversary of the New York Society and calls upon all Czechoslovakian
organizations to take part in this affair so important for Americans of Czecho-
slovakian origin. The role they have played in the liberation of their old coun-
try is comparatively well known. Less known is the part they have played in
the development of this country. The coming 100th anniversary of the founding
of the first Czechoslovakian society in the United States of America provides
an excellent occasion for a review of their history. By coincidence this anniver-
sary falls in with 100th anniversary of the birth of Thomas G. Masaryk, the
greatest leader of Czechoslovakian democracy and Father of the Czechoslovak
Republic. His close relations to this country are well known. His wife Charlotte,
so beloved by all Czechoslovakians, was an American lady of the old American
stock. T. G.Masaryk issued the Declaration of Independence of Czechoslovakia
on the American soil, in Washington. D. C, on October 18, 1918. What an oppor-
tunity for all Americans of Czechoslovakian ancestry to honor their American
pioneers and by remembering Masaryk's heritage to reaffirm their faith in
democracy.


                             [Release No.   2,   April 1949]

                   AMERICAN CZECHOSLOVAK FLASHES
           Czechoslovakian Democracy Refuses To Stay Buried

   Since the Communist coup d'etat which occurred in February last year, over
20,000 Czechoslovakian patriots escaped abroad.    All walks of life are reprxj-
sented among them High officials of the former democratic government and
                     :



leaders of non-Communist parties, intellectuals and artisans, many trade-union-
ists, Sokols, students, and some persons deprived of their property, or fearing
the loss of personal liberty. Of 186 non-Communist members of the Parliament,
57 fled abroad.
   Of the political refugees from the countries behind the Iron Curtain, the
Czechoslovaks suceeded soon to form the most unified and all-inclusive political
representation abroad, to voice their demand for restitution of liberty of their
native land and to promote advancement of the economic and social status of
the masses of refugees. It was organized on the first anniversary of the Com-
nmnist putsch and took place in Washington, D. C, where on October 18, 1918,
60         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Thomas   G. Masaryk proclaimed the independence of Czechoslovakia.     It is called
the Council of Free Czechoslovakia and includes leaders of all political parties
represented in the I're-Comniunist I'arliament and is enlarged by representatives
of the pre-war Agrarian party and several outstanding ambassadors and news-
papermen. Dr. Petr Zenkl, former vice-premier of Czechoslovakia and Lord
Mayor of Prague and president of the National Socialist (Benes) party, was
elected chairman Dr. Jozef Lettrich, former president of the Slovakian Demo-
                  ;


cratic Party and Vaclav Majer, former Minister of Supplies and leader of the
Czech Social Democratic Party, were chosen as vice-chairmen. The headquarters
of the Council are located in Washington, D. C, with branch offices in London
and Paris.
  Immediately upon its foundation, the Coimcil of Free Czechoslovakia issued a
proclamation to the Czechoslovakian people denouncing the Communist totali-
tarian regime.    In a statement recently published, it welcomes heartily the
formation of the Atlantic Pact, and its purpose to secure national independence
of free countries, to maintain democratic liberties and to resist aggression.    It
also expressed the hope that the forces of strengthened democracy will soon
bring about restoration of democracy in Czechoslovakia, temporarily crushed
but refusing to acknowledge defeat.

                      Spirit of Masakyiv Continues in Exile

(F'rom the address delivered by Assistant Secretary of Labor, Mr. John W.
  Gibson, at the commemoration of the ODth birthdy of T. G. Masaryk, which
  was held under the auspices of the Czechoslovak National Council, at the
  Bohemian National Hall, New York City, March 7, 1949 )   :




  Thomas Masaryk     died more than eleven years ago and the Republic of Czecho-
slovakia   was, in the meantime, twice dominated by foreign powers. Once
pliysically by the Nazis and for the second time by international Con muuism.
   These powers were in the past and are now today eager to obliterate the
memory of Thomas Masaryk in his homeland. At the present time, his pictures
and books are disappearing in Czechoslovakia, though not from the hearts and
minds of a large majority of its citizens.
   Many of his close friends and followers left Czechoslovakia and some of them
i-ecently founded the Council of Free Czechoslovakia in Washington.      Thomas
Masaryk's spirit continues, today in exile over here in the country he loved so
much, as his followers seek to throw off the yoke of oppression imposed by a
ruthless dictatorship.
   It is the sincere hope of all lovers of freedom and democracy, that the time
will come soon, when the free citizens of Czechoslovakia will again be able to
openly adhere to Thomas Masaryk's ideals which coincide with those the entire
world is striving for today.
  The great Czechoslovak leader, whom you so deeply love, believed firmly in
democracy and freedom. He opposed and fought all dictator.ships, Nazi as well
as Communist. He taught his people tolerance and respect for their fellow men.
His slogan was "Truth will always prevail." Freedom is not only an inherent
right of all Americans, it is the fundamental right of all the peoples of the
world.
                             Cold   War Among   Slavs

  The officers of the American Slav Congress appealed to the members of the
Congress and to the President, to end the cold war between the United States
of America and the Soviet Union. They heartily recommended a meetivUg between
President Harry S. Truman and Joseph Stalin. Unfortunately, the American
Slav Congress entirely forgot the cold war raging among Slavs themselves and
increasing in intensity.  This cold war waged by terrible diplomatic and eco-
nomic pressure, by Russia and her satellites against Yugoslavia, is entirely
appropriate for the American Slav Congress to address its appeal to the Russian
Politburo and Mr. Stalin, and to recommend a meeting between Mr. Stalin and
Mr. Tito, in order to compose their differences and to set an example how to
end a cold war. * * *
                         Great Leader Not Forgotten

  While in Czechoslovakia, now under the Communist regime, INIarch 7, the
ninety-ninth anniversary of the birth of Thomas G. Masaryk, the late president
            REPORT OF COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     61

and founder of the Czechoslovak Republic, passed almost unnoticed and was.
hardly mentioned in the press, the Czechoslovakian democrats in free countries
of the world remembered the heritage of this great leader of democracy, and
drew fresh inspiration from his struggles for freedom. Democratic refugees
from Czechoslovakia arranged memorial meetings in every camp for Displaced
Persons in the Allied zones in Germany and Austria, as well as in Italy, in Lon-
don, Paris, and in ScandinaviiTn cities. Numerous public meetings, lectures^ con-
certs, and radio broadcasts were held in the United States, by the Americans of
Czechoslovakian origin, and American friends of Czechoslovakian democracy.
The most impressive of these celebrations was held on March 7, by the District
Committee of the Czechoslovak National Council and the Czechoslovak Legion-
naires, at the Bohemian Hall in New York City.    It was addressed not only by
the national and local leaders of the group but also by the representatives of
                                                       ;


the Council of Free Czechoslovakia, recently founded in Washington by the
political refugees, and by Honorable John W. Gibson, Assistant Secretary of
Labor. The mayors of the cities of New York, and Baltimore, and governors
of the states of New Y'ork, Ohio, Illinois, and loAva proclaimed March 7th as
Masaryk Day, in expression of sympathy of the American people for Czechoslovak
democracy and freedom.

                   Peepabations foe Czechoslovak Pioneee Cextenniax
  On May   7th a conference, called by the District Committee of the Czechoslovak
National Council of Eastern States, will meet in New York City, for the puipose
of laying plans for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of founding of the
first Czech society in the United States, and the 100th anniversary of the birth
of T. G. Masaryk, the founder of Czechoslovakia.      Similar preparations for the
Czechoslovakian pioneer centennial, will be made in other communities with a
considerable number of the population of Czechoslovakian descent. They wish to
honor their pioneers and to proclaim their loyalty to democracy, as well as, their
opposition to the totalitarian regime which recently usurped power in the land
of their ancestors.
                                Masaeyk Memoeial Stamps
  To perpetuate the memory and high  ideals of Jan Masaryk and his illustrious
father,       the Czechoslovak National Council of America issued Masaryk
            TGM,
Memorial Stamps. They are sent to all friends of Czechoslovakian democracy
who contribute to the cultural fund of the organization. Send your orders to
2345   S.   Kedzie Avenue, Chicago     23, Illinois.

                      IT   CAN HAPPEN HERE (FLASHES FEOM PEAGUE)
Traces of Weste7'7i influence hard       to   eradicate
  During the       last year, 5,970                       in Czechoslovakia. Of
                                      new books were published
these 4,286 in the Czech and 770 in the Slovakian languages. There were 692
translations from the foreign literatures and 222 books were published in foreign
languages. In spite of all efforts to eliminate everything reminding the Czecho-
slovakian people of the West, the translations from English still were leading.
Foreign authors were represented in this order British, American, French, and
                                                           :



Russian.
30,000 Czechoslovakian workers to 6e sent to Russia
  Arrangements were recently made for sending 30,000 skilled Czechoslovakian
workers to the Soviet armament plants in the "safe regions" beyond Ural
Mountains. This labor-expeditionary force will not be composed of volunteers.
Wotnen in the building industry
  One of the reforms which is    closely copying the Russian model, is extremely
unpopular with the Czechoslovakian working population. It is the employment
of women as day laborers in the building industry. The workers object strongly
to the employment of women in the hardest manual labor and have no sympathy
with this strange interpretation of the equal rights for women.
"Cuttinff doivn icages rightful and just"
  Since Januaiy 1. 1949, a new labor law was adopted in the Communist-ruled
Czechoslovakia. The wages and salaries are divided into eight categories mean-
62           REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

ing very substantial lowering of wages. The introduction of the new law was
preceded by an intensive press campaign which denounced "equalitarlan tendency
in wages."   Even "Prace," the main organ of the Communist-dominated trade
unions admits that the law is very unpopular, but concluded its article with these
words "As conscious unionists and socialists, we must recognize that this lower-
         :



ing of wages is both appropriate and just."       •

Black    list   revived
  The Works Councils     in the nationalized Czechoslovakian industry were in-
structed by the government to refuse employment to anyone who cannot produce
a statement from his former employer, that he quit his previous employment
with the consent of the employer and is recommended by him.

                              Gallows Humor Behind the Iron Curtain
  Practically nobody in Czechoslovakia believes that Jan Masaryk committed
suicide.  The good people of Prague will tell you with a wink of the eye, that
Jan was not only a gi-eat statesman but also one of the greatest acrobats of his
time because he succeeded in jumping out of the window and yet managed to
shut the window behind himself.
  (Published by the Czechoslovak National Council of America, 2345 S. Kedzie
Avenue, CJiicago 23, Illinois. Subscription price $1.00 for 12 issues.)


                                         [Release No.   3,   May   1949]

                              AMERICAN CZECHOSLOVAK FLASHES
     President     Truman Praised           for Stand Against Totalitarian Aggression

The Hon. Harry        S.       Truman,
      President of the United States of America,
                                        Washington, D. C.
  Mr. President Americans of Czechoslovak origin assembled in convention
                          :


this seventh day of May 1949 in New York City under the auspices of the Czecho-
slovak National Council of America, Eastern Division, send greetings.
  On this occasion we wish to convey to you our assurances that Americans of
Czechoslovak origin are deeply loyal to democratic ideals of the United States of
America and ai'e sincerely devoted to this, our country-
   The loss of Democracy in Czechoslovakia, the c<mntry of our forebears, has
brought to us a new appreciation of the liberties enjoyed here in full equality
and a deeper sense of obligation to our nation for all freedoms so justly guaran-
teed by our constitution.
  We wish further to thank you for your alile leadership in the alleviation of
suffering throughout the world and for your firm determination to safeguard
world peace as well as your staunch efforts against totalitarian aggression.
  Please accept our assurances that Americans of Czechoslovak origin will always
be among the first to rise to the defense of American democracy against any
enemy, internal or external.
                                                         L. V. Vydra, Sec7-etary.

                      CZECHOSLOVAK WORKERS REBUFF FOR COMMUNISM

  Elections and plebiscites under the dictators heretofore were a simple matter.
The  single ticket supported by all the ways and at the disposal of a police state
usually assured at least ninety i)ercent approval of Hitler's, Mussolini's, Stalin's
or Franco's candidates or policies.     It came therefore as a distinct surprise
causing many comments and was interpreted as a sure sign of ebbing of the
Communists'" influence when in recent elections in Eastern Germany 34 percent
of the electorate found courage to vote against the single ticket presented by the
Communists.
  A     commented upon and passed almost unnoticed but equally important sign
      less
of thesame trend occurred recently in Czechoslovakia.
  Last March the long-posti)oned elections to the Works Council in Czechoslo-
vakian factories were held and resulted in a very unpleasant surprise to the
Communist regime.
          REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                          63

  According to the Communist daily "Rude Pravo" of April 16, 1949, one-third of
the eligible voters in Slovakia and fully one-half of the electorate in the Czech
provinces of Bohemia and Moravia failed to appear at the polls.
  In Bohemia and Moravia, the most industrial regions of the Republic, out of
203,044   eligil)le   voters only 102,830 actually participated in the elections, as
admitted by the Prague daily.
  This happened in Czechoslovakia, where compulsory Toting was successfully
practised since the inception of the Republic: where full participation in the
elections, under Masaryk and Benes was always exemplary, and where indus-
trial workers always constituted the most active and most disciplined political
srroup, voting in all elections almost to a man.     It should also be mentioned
that the trade-unions in Czechoslovakia are 100-percent Communist dominated
and yet failed to assure success for tlie elections in the Czech factories.
   There is only one explanation for this phenomenon.
   The masses of Czech workers refused point-blank to be a party to a political
farce and defied the regime by their abstention.
   There was only a single ticket presented by the Communist trade-unions.
The voting was not by a secret ballot it was a public affair the votes were
                                            ;                       ;


oast in the open, in ;in atmosphere of intimidation, and in the presence of the
factory police the so-called workers Militia.
  The  refusal of one-half of the eligible voters to participate in the elections
to the Works Councils is a sure sign of the dislike of the Communist regime
among industrial workers. And the fact that the Communists are losing favor
even with the industrial workers, the allegedly privileged group, highly favored
by the government is a proof that a huge majority of Czechoslovakian people
are opposed to the present regime and detest totalitarianism.

                          NO COMPROMISE WITH TOTALITAEIANISM

   The efforts of Czechoslovakian Communists to gain favor with the Americans
of Czechoslovak origin meets with ever stronger opposition.
   Answering the call for action in defense of our democracy, the Czech and Slo-
vak organizations of the Eastern States met in a highly successful convention
which was held in New York City, on May 7.
   The Convention was presided by Mr. Andrew Valusek, president of the Slovak
Sokol Union, and was addressed by Mr. Charles M. Prchal, of Chicago, president
of the Czechoslovak National Council of America, and by Dr. Petr Zenkl, of
Washington, president of the Council of Free Czechoslovakia, recently formed
by the democratic refugees. Several members of this organization and a number
of local leaders discussed the problems arising out of the present crisis. A
telegram was sent to the President of the United States praising him for a firm
stand against totalitarian aggression. A ringing call was issued to all Americans
of Czechoslovak origin, stressing the opposition to Communism and welcoming
the initiative of the Czechoslovak National Council of America in this respect.
The convention promised moral support to the Council of Free Czechoslovakia in
its efforts to restore democracy of that country and urged relief for the demo-
cratic refugees from Czechoslovakia.
   The native-born generation was well represented at a convention and took
a prominent part in its deliberations.

                      CZECHOSLOVAKIA UNDER COMMUNIST DOMINATION
20 percent of college students expelled from schools
  Czechoslovakia had, in 1947, 18 schools of university grade with 55,000 students.
Since the Communists usurped power last year, more than 11,000 students have
been expelled from schools and compelled to give up further studies.
Strange redefinition of democracy
  Speaking at the convention of the Czechoslovakian writers on March 7th, in
Prague, Dr. Vaclav Kopecky, the Minister of Information, thus defined the sub-
stance and aspects of the so-called People's Democracy now ruling Czechoslovakia       :


  "It is clear to us even, that on the road to socialism, the People's Democracy
may fulfill the function of a dictatorship of the Proletariat, thus becoming one
of its characteristic forms."
64              REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Hard   to serve neic masters
   Since February 1948, 70 percent of Czechoslovakian Ambassadors, Ministers and
Consuls, have either resigned or been recalled to Prague. The Communists
divided all employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into three categories:
1. Reliable for service abroad, 2. Reliable for service in Prague, 3. Unreliable.

"Order of February24"
  By a decree of the government of Czechoslovakia, a new "Order of the 24th of
February" was recently Established. It will be awarded to individuals for deeds
that made the Communist Coup d'etat possible. The Czechoslovakian patriots
welcome the official list of these undisputed traitors for whom it will be hard
indeed to find excuses when the day of retribution will arrive.
Popular car at unpopular price
  The Communist Ministry of Internal Commerce announced that the four sets
of Skoda-Popular automobile, will sell at the "Free market" for the price of
450,000 korunas (50 korunas equal 1 dollar). The average monthly wages of
Czechoslovakian workers is 3,000 korunas.
Tliought police in action
  Several Czech priests were accused of delivering sermons containing "hidden
pronouncements against the People's Democratic regime."
                               HUMOR BEHIND THE        IRON CURTAIN

The Atlantic Pact Discussed aboard a Streetcar
  The conductors in the streetcars in Prague are still collecting the fare by
passing among the passengers and selling them tickets. It happened that on
the morning of the day when the radio announced the decision of Norway to join
the Atlantic Pact one conductor called in a pitched voice as soon as the car
left the stop "Tickets   Tickets
                           !         Who came in ?" As if answering a question
                                       !



concerning the Atlantic Pact, uppermost in the minds of all of that time, a voice
in the rear gravely informed him in a true Shweik style Norway        :      !


  All passengers laughed, that is, all with the exception of two Communists who
called in the policeman at the next stop in order to apprehend the "political
provocator"' who had publicly manifested his sympathy with the abominable
Western imperialism. * * *

                     FOURTH EDITION OF PROGRESSIVE CZECH AVAILABLE                  f



  The fourth edition of Progressive Czech by Bohumil Mikula is now available.
This textbook of the Czech language by an American scholar, was published by
the Czechoslovak National Council of America, and is being used in American
Universities, colleges, and public and denominational high schools. It contains
grammar, reading matter, and a Czech-English as well as English-Czech dic-
tionary 578 pages, price $3.62 pp. Send your orders to the Czechoslovak National
            ;


Council of America, 2345 S. Kedzie Avenue, Chicago 23, 111.
   (Published by the Czechoslovak National Council of America, 2345 S. Kedzie
Avenue, Chicago 23, Illinois. Subscription price $1.00 for 12 issues.)


                                  [Release No.   4,   June 1949]

                       AMERICAN CZECHOSLOVAK FLASHES
       If   Free Elections in Greece       Why        Not Also in Czechoslovakia?
  The recentoffer of the Greek guerrilla leaders, for liquidation of the Civil War
in Greece on the basis of free elections under the supervision of the United
Nations and the subsequent approval of this offer by the Soviet Union opens the
way  for similar settlement of internal troubles elsewhere.
  If free electionsunder international control in Greece why not free elections in
Czechoslovakia? If such elections can be used to liquidate a civil war, why
not use them to prevent a civil war?
  The people of Czechoslovakia are clamoring such elections. They expressed
their will recently by means of a mass letter-writing campaign. The American
         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                             65

Embassy    in Prague received no less than 30,000 letters demanding such elections,
in spite of all obstacles put in the way by the police state.
  Heretofore the Communists objected to international supervision of such elec-
tions and branded it as unpermissible intervention in the internal affairs of the
countries behind the "Iron Curtain." After its approval in the Greek case there
can be no valid objection to it in the Czechoslovakian case.
  The Western Allies similarly have advocated free elections under the supervi-
sion of the United Nations and extension of civil liberties to the people of Eastern
          —
Germany and rightly so. But what about Czechoslovakia? Certainly the people
of Czechoslovakia, our true and tried Ally in two world wars, deserve some con-
sideration and the same measure of rights and liberties as the people of the
nation with which we still are technically at war.           We
                                                       must not forget further-
more, that Czechoslovakia was included in the Eastern zone by a deal among
                 —
the Big Powers without being           consulted — and
                                                    that our country, the United
States of America, was a partner to this deal. Thus we have a certain responsi-
bility for the fate of Czechoslovakian democracy, a responsibility
                                                                   which we can-
not avoid.
  The Czechoslovak National Council of America requested the United btates
                                                                       conference
delegation at the conference of Four Powers in Paris, to impress the
with tlie necessity of giving the Czechoslovakian people a chance to decide their
fate by free elections under the supervision of the United Nations. This demand
should be fully supported by all fair-minded citizens interested in a peaceful
settlement of the troubles behind the Iron Curtain.

       State-Contkolled     Church Communist Goal             in Czechoslovakia

   The Communist assault upon Archbishop Beran and the Catholic Church in
Czechoslovakia is reaching its climax. At the time our readers will read these
lines, the Archbishop probably will have been arrested.
   What is the real goal of the Communist regime in the church crisis they are
precipitating?
  Not the destruction of the church or separation of the church from the state.
The Communists have learned by bitter experience, that they cannot hope to
eradicate religion and suppress the church at one single sweep. They have not
succeeded in this in the Soviet Union after 30 years of their absolute rule. They
know quite well they cannot achieve this goal in Central Europe nor in the Bal-
kans. For this reason they have set for themselves as a less pretentious goal, not
the separation of church from the state but, on the contrary, the establishment of
state-controlled churches, run by the Communist indoctrinated Action-Committees
in the same way as they run all non-Communist organizations which are still
I)ermitted to exist.
  In Czechoslovakia they have already succeeded in making two churches fully
subservient to their rule, namely, the small Orthodox church which was placed in
addition under the jurisdiction of the Orthodox Church in Tiloscow, and the
National Czechoslovak Church, which broke away from the Rome after the first
World War. The Roman Catholic Church under the leadership of the able and
extremely popular Archbishop Beran has refused so far to listen to cajoling and
threats and is now a subject of severe persecution. It is natural to assume that a
similar fate will soon befall the Protestant churches.
  The Communists tried first to gain favor with the Catholic Church by peaceful
means and by cajoling. When President Gottwald was elected to the oflice made
                                —                        —
vacant by President Benes, he an avowed atheist attended the Mass, served by
Archbishop Beran in the St. Vitus Cathedral in Prague. Yet in the same cathe-
dral, on June 20, Archbishop Beran was silenced by jeers of Communist provoca-
tors planted among the faithful.    *   *  *


                          Prepare for the U.      S.   Census
  Next year a general census will be taken in the United States.
                    enumeration of members of different nationalities and races,
  It will include the
a very important problem in a country where so many different races live side by
side.
   It is highly desirable that the   census taking be as accurate as humanly iwssible.
 An accurate census may help us to straighten up many mooted questions.
When for instance a claim is made during a political campaign —as it actually was
made  in the last presidential election    —
                                        that a certain nationality commands six
million votes and will turn them a certain way, it will be readily recognized as a
66       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TJN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

gross exaggeration when confronted with tlie census figures according to which
barely two and one-half millions of people of the first, second, and third genera-
tions, children included, were enumerated in this group.
  The census of the United States is the most reliable source of information
about many pertinent ingredients in our melting pot.
   This does not, however, mean that there is no room for its improvement.
   In the 1940 Census many persons of Czech origin were listed as Germans simply
                                                       —            —
because at that time Czechoslovakia was temporarily a part of Hitler's
Greater Germany. ITiis was done in spite of the correct instructions given to the-
census takers. In many instances these instructions were not followed. In
many instances the Czechoslovak National Council of America had to call the
attention of the authorities to a violation of these instructions.
   There is a danger that the Communist coup d'etat in Czechoslovakia last year
and the anti-American policies of the present Communist government of Czecho-
slovakia may lead to similar misunderstandings. We all can help by convincing
our fellow citizens that they should answer the questionnaire correctly and make-
sure that tlie census takers accurately follow given instructions.

              The Slovak National Alliance             of America Reokganized

  The Slovak National Alliance of America held its national conference at New
York, on June 1949. It was attended by delegates from New York. New Jersey^
the New England States, Pennsylvania, and Illinois. The conference unani-
mously decided to continue its affiliation with the Czechoslovak National Council
of America, in Chicago to give moral support to the Council of Free Czecho-
                             ;


slovakia in Washington in its efforts to free Czechoslovakia from the yoke of
totalitarianism and to extend aid to the democratic refugees from the Com-
                    ;


munist dominated Czechoslovakia Ijy supporting tlie American Fund for Czecho-
slovak Refugees.
  The Slovak National Alliance was formed in 1939 and has become one of the
component parts of the Czeclioslovak National Council of America. Contrary
to the older organization, The Slovak League, which supported the Nazi puppet
government in Slovakia, the Alliance worked steadfastly for the restitution of
democratic Czechoslovak Repultlic.
  The present officers of the Alliance are Andrew Valnsek, of New York, presi-
                                                   :



dent John Golosinec, of Chicago, and Anna Noehto. of New York, vice presidents
     ;                                                                                   ;


John Drahos, of New York, secretary. The headquarters of the Alliance will
remain   in   New York    City.

               A Monument        to T. G.   Masaryk To Be Erected   in Chicago

  The celebration       of the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of         Thomas G,
Masaryk,      to be held in 1950, will actually begin tliis fall.   A monument    honoring
the great leader of Czechoslovakia and world democracy will be erected at the
entrance of the University of Chicago. (In his professorial days Masaryk was
a member of the staff of this university.) The statue, the work of the noted
Czechoslovak-American sculptor, Albin Polasek, formerly of the Chicago Art
Institute, will be dedicated on or around October 28, the Czechoslovak Independ-
ence Day. The date was cliosen purposely as that holiday was replaced by the
new Communist regime in Czechoslovakia with Noveml)er 7. the anniversary of
the Bolshevik revolution in Russia. The Chicago event is, therefore, planned as
a mighty demonstration against the totalitaria^n regime in Prague which tram-
pled down the ideals of the great founder of the Czechoslovakian democracy.
   The Masaryk Memorial Committee, which is sponsoring this celebration, was
organized by the late John Toman, their county treasurer of Cook County, Illi-
nois, before the Second World War.     The war interrupted the work of this com-
mittee.   The necessary funds were badly needed for the movement to liberate
Masaryk's country from the Nazis and later on, immediately after the war, there
was even more pressing need for the alleviation of the suffering caused by the
ravages of war and by tlie Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia.
   The Masaryk Memorial Committee is headed by Mr. John A. Cervenka, former
city purchasing agent in Chicago.     Mr. Charles M. Prchal is secretary of the
Committee.
         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         67

                        Sad News From the Old Country
             economic war between czechoslovakia and yugoslavia
  The Czeclioslovak government orderecl in Jnne a ban on all Czechoslovakian
exports to Yugoslavia. It was pushed into an economic war with this Slavic
country by Moscow, which is trying to organize an economic blockade of Yugo-
slavia.' Thus Czechoslovakia is being deprived of one of the best outlets for its
goods and at the same time is being cut off from a very important source of raw
material for its industries. This is the second time that Russia caused irrepara-
ble economic loss to Czechoslovakia for reasons of her own.  In 1947 Stalin forced
Czechoslovakia to withdraw from the Marshall plan although even the Commu-
nist ministers in Benes' cabinet originally voted for it.

                                 HANGMEN ARE BUSY
  The new regime of Czechoslovakia is tightening the screws ever more. Secret
tribunals are pronouncing sentences of death and executions of patriots daily.
Death sentences were pronounced in the trials of the Liska and Choc groups.
The most glaring example of the Communist "justice" is the recent execution
of Gen. Heliodor Pika.   One of his "crimes" was— as quoted by the Daily
       —
Woi-ker that he established connection with the British Intelligence Service in
Britain in— 1940. At that time Moscow had a pact with Hitler and Mr. Moloto\
was dining   lavishly with   Yon Ribbentrop.
                                  DYING IN PRISONS

  To be sentenced to jail is no insurance against death by torture in Communist-
dominated Czechoslovakia. The latest victims are General Janousek and Colonel
Lukas, who died very soon after their incarceration. Both served with the
British Air P'orce during the war. Both were eliminated and liquidated as
"Westerners."

                                SUICIDES ON INCREASE

  The number of suicides for political reasons are increasing in a horrible
way.   The most significant case recently discovered is that of Prof. Autonin
Yosicka, well known in this country, who obtained his doctor's degree at the
Northwestern University in Chicago.      Yosicka, a lecturer of English at the
Charles University in Prague, was made despondent by the Communist inter-
ference in his teaching and by suppression of three of his books by the Ministry
of Information.   The new constitution of Czechoslovakia provides "guarantee"
of freedom of scientific research, but apparently that is pure window dressing.

                                 PRISONS OVERFLOWING

  When    President Gottwald was installed last year an amnesty was declared.
  The purpose   of it evidently was to make room for new prisoners. Today there
are between 60,000-75,000 patriots in the jails. The number of those who were
sent to the Forced Labor Camps runs into hundreds of thousands.

                             masaeyk's words came teue

  Two months before he died, Jan Masaryk warned his fellow countrymen in a
speech delivered at Brno University that a disi'uption of relations with the West
would result in drastic lowering of standard of life in Czechoslovakia. His
words came true. Even the Commmiist daily "Rude Pravo" admits that the
average wages have fallen from 3,000 Kcs. to 2,500 Kcs. At the same time a
suit of clothes costs from 10,000 Kcs. to 20,000 Kcs. ( .$200-$300 )
                                                                  .
68      REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
            830 South Fifth Street.             Established 1913.    Phone Mitchell 5-4373

                                 OBZOR PUBLISHING COMPANY
                                               Publishers of the
                          "Obzob"     — {The       American^Yugoslav Observer)
 A   Weekly News Publication                 for   Americans of Yugoslav Descent        in   Wisconsin

                                     Frank   R. Stadt, editor   and publisher

Presenting also the American- Yugoslav (Slovenian) Radio Hoxjb Oveb                              WEXT
                                                   Radio Station

                                                                Milwaukee   4,   Wis., June 29, 1949.
Hon. John S. Wood,
     Chairman, House Commitee on Un-American Activities,
                                                   Washington, D. C.
  Dear Me. Chairman In New York Times of June 2G, 1949, on page 1, section 1,
                                 :


and on page 34, column 3, I read the latest official report of your Committee
on Un-American Activities of the American Slav Congress, and to my great
astonishment found the name of my paper, the "Yugoslovenski Obzor, Milwau-
kee," listed among the "organizations actively associated with the American
Slav Congress."
  I don't   know how  did it happen that our paper was included among these organ-
izations, while, by right, it should be listed among the loyal ones, but I presume
that your Committee, by all probability, found the name of my paper on the
official mailing list of the American Slav Congress, which, during the war years
and after, bombarded every Slavic-language newspaper in this country, includ-
ing ours, with its communistic propaganda and literature. This propaganda
stuff kept coming to my desk from the American Slav Congress despite my fre-
quent demands that they strike the name of our paper off their mailing list.
Only a few months ago they finally stopped sending me their traitorous litera-
ture, which— needless to say
                                         —
                                 promptly wandered into the wastebasket anyhow
as soon as   it       arrived.
  Or, maybe, your Committee found the name of our paper or rather my                  —
                                                    —
name, as its editor and publisher among the organizers of Local Milwaukee
branch of American Slav Congress (at that time, and still called the American
Slav Council of Milwaukee County) back in 1942, when its goals and purposes
were purely patriotic and the Communists did not have any control of it, and
from which I and the rest of anticommunistic organizers one year later, when
the Communists in their usual trickery way got control of the majority votes
at the executive meetings, promptly withdrew.
  I am enclosing 2 sets of original clippings from local newspapers about my
activities during the war years and after.    I beg you, Mr. Chairman, to return
these clippings to me after you take notice of them, as they are the only ones
I have and would like to preserve them in my files for eventual future references.
  I may also add that for these activities and for my strongly anticommunistic
stand and editorial policy of my paper during the dangerous period of appease-
ment of Russia and its satellites, and of my lone fighting against communistic
propaganda among my people, I was often threatened with death and destruction
of my printing plant and property by local Communists which facts are well      —
known to the local FBI oflice ( at least they were promptly reported by me to its
agents). You will, Mr. Chairman, therefore understand that I was the more
surprised to find the name of my paper listed among the suspected organizations.
   I hope, Mr. Chairman, that your Committee will find some way of correcting
this injustice to me and my paper.
       Respectfully yours,
                                                          Frank R. Staitt,
                               Editor and Publisher of "Yugoslovenski Obzor."
  Enclosure       :   2 sets of newspaper clippings, kindly to be returned.
        REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                              69
                            [Milwaukee Journal, April 26, 1949]

                   Slav Congress Forces Broken by Split in 1943

group here reduced to small number           when    foes of   communism walked out
   The American Slav Congress, which is being investigated by the House Un-
American Activities Committee as a Communist "front" organization, is only
a skeleton of its former self here.
   It remains the central governing body of a doz^en or so left-wing nationality
organizations among Milwaukeeans of Slavic descent. Its present over-all mem-
bership here is only a few thousands.
   Six years ago the American Slav Congress was a major organization in the
city's life. It had about 90 affiliated societies among the Poles, Czechs, Slo-
vaks, Slovenes, Serbs, Russians, and Ukrainians. It i-epresented nearly 75,000
persons.
  But a majority of the Milwaukee members of the congress long ago recognized
it as a Communist "front" organization and withdrew.     The testimony that
is being offered in Washington, D. C, now to prove the organization's Com-
munist connections is nothing new to these Milwaukeeans.
Krzycki Is President
   The national president of the congress for a number of years has been Leo
Krzycki, 3360 S. 37th St. He attended the Communist-dominated world peace
meeting in Paris last week as a delegate of the congress and is now on his way
to Poland.
   In recent years officers of the local group have consistently been "Russia
firsters." Paul Babich, an important figure in the Communist Party in Wis-
consin, has been the treasurer for years. Other congress leaders, all out-
spokenly pro-Soviet, have been Mrs. Josephine Nordstrand, the Communist
Party's principal "front" organizer in the state Mrs. Bozina Klabouch Ed-
                                                        ;                      ;



mund V. Bobrowicz, Democratic nominee for congress in 1946 who was re-
pudiated by the Democratic Party as a Communist, and Louis Majtan and John
Hlushko.
IWO Nmv     Is   Backbone
   Since 1943, when about 75 of 90 affiliated societies withdrew from the con-
gress, the backbone of the organization has been in the International Workers'
order chapters in the various nationality groups. The order is the fraternal
insurance society of the Communist Party.
  The local chapters include the Solidarity club, a Polish IWO affiliate, the
Ukrainian-American lodge No. 1534 and Croat, Czech, Serb, and Slovak affiliates.
  A few of the Serb and Croat members who remained with the congress after
the big split in 1943 recently have severed their connections. They were pro-
Tito, and the Yugoslav dictator's differences with Russia left them puzzled.
  The last public meeting of the congress was in March at the South Side
Armory, 1620 S. 6th St. At that time, the congress, with the Wisconsin Civil
Rights congress, another Communist "front" organization, sponsored by the
appearance here of Mrs. Katherine Ilyndman, of Gary, Ind. Mrs. Hyndman has
been arrested for deportation for her Communist activities. She is now free on
bail.

Meet at Harmony Hall
  Regular meetings of the congress are held at Harmony Hall, 939 S. 6th street.
  Frank E. Gregorski, a former assistant district attorney, was the president
of the local American Slav congress before the 1943 break-up. He led 67 Polish
organizations, which were also members of the Pulaski council, out of the
congress.
  "We intended to oust the Communists and reorganize the central body for
ourselves, but they got the jump on us," Gregorski said. "They went to Madison
and incorporated, and then we were denied the right to use the name."
  Gregorski explained that the split came as a result of a national convention
of the congress in Detroit in 1943. The national body went on record approving
Russian absorption of Poland and the Baltic states and Tito's ascendency in
Yugoslavia.
  The rupture here came soon after the Detroit meeting. At a local meeting
a large map was placed on a wall. It showed a post-World War II Soviet
Europe. A resolution condemning the Milwaukee chapter of the Council of
American-Soviet Friendship for displaying the map was passed at the meeting.
70            REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Forming a "New World"
   Mrs. Nordstrand, who was a "labor" delegate to the congi-ess, told Gregorski
and  his group that they "shouldn't be excited about such things as maps and
boundaries."
   Babich told the Polish delegates that "a new world is being formed, and we
won't care about you."
   The IWO groups, Babich's Serbian Democratic club and the left wing
American-Polish labor council quickly passed resolutions condemning the with-
drawal of the Polish delegates who sided with Gregorski.
   Since that break-up, although the congress has held meetings here regularly,
it has come to public attention on only a few occasions.
   Once was when Atty. Gen. Tom C. Clark listed the congress and many
of its remaining affiliates as "subversive" and as Communist "front" groups.
   And now it is the congressional investigation in Washington tiiat promises to
spotlight the organization's activities.



                          [The Milwaukee Journal, July   4,   1948]

                            City Yugoslavs Eye Homeland

                most abe opposed to tito and to communism, editor says

  Milwaukee's 40,000 persons of Yugoslav descent are watching with interest
and anxiety the events in their homeland.
  What is behind the condemnation of Communist Tito by international com-
munism? And what will this mean to their Croatian, Slovenian, and Serbian
relatives abi-oad? These are the questions that Milwaukee Yugoslavs are
asking.
  Most Croats, Slovenes, and Serbs living in America have been unalterably
opposed   to Tito and his Communist regime from the beginning, according to
Frank R. Staut, editor of the Slovenian newspaper Obzor.
  "The Slovenes are a democratic people and we are opposed to any form of
dictatorship and to communism," Staut said. "A Tito-run Communist dictator-
ship is no better than a Moscow-run dictatorship."
Religion Is a Factor
  The Slovenes comprise about 20,000 of Milwaukee's Yugoslav population, the
Croats about 15,000, and the Serbs about 5,000, Staut said.
  The majority of these were born in Europe or are tir.st generation Americans
and it is for that reason that their ties to their native land are especially strong.
The Croats and the Slovenes are largely Roman Catholic. The Serbians belong
to the Serbian Orthodox church.      It is partially because of their deep religious
convictions that their opposition to Tito developed, Staut said.
  Father Blase Jerkovic, of St. Augustine's Catholic Church, was outspoken on
that point.
  "Tito is against all religion and the Yugoslav people will never support him,"
he    said.

Denies Tito   is a Croat

  Although biographies list Tito as a Croat whose real name is Josip Broz,
Father Jerkovic strongly denied that Tito is a Croat.
  "I have parishioners from the area where he is said to have been born and
they never heard of his family there," Father Jerkovic said. He charged that
Tito is an oppressor of all Yugoslav people but especially of the religious Croats.
He said the great majority of all Americans of Yugoslav descent would never
be satisfied until Tito and all Communists are removed from control.
  An opposite view of the esteem in which Yugoslav Americans hold Tito was
expressed by Nick Hinich, president of the left-wing American Croatian council.
  "There are only a few loud-mouthed individuals in this country who condemn
him," Hinich said. "Most of the Yugoslavs here and in Europe have been
 strongly in favor of Tito from the beginning."
 "Not Forming Opinion"
   But Hinich hedged somewhat when asked whether the high regard in which
 he said Tito was held was likely to be changed by the Comiuform's attack on
 the Yugoslav leadei".
         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         71

   "Our people are not forming any final opinion yet," he declared. "All we have
^re the newspaper stories and they may be twisted. I don't think the break is
iis serious as the newspapers state."
   Hinich doubted that there would be any reorientation of Yugoslavia toward
the United States. Britain, and other western nations unless "the west gives up
its policies of ownership of resources and exploitation of tlie people."
   Phillip Paiiliu, president of tlie Croatian Central committee, said that liis
•organization represented 95 percent of the Croats in Milwaukee and that Hinich's
group represented "only a handful of pro-Communists."
Slaying Held Possible
  "Tito and his Communist government are maintained by force and fear,"
Paulin said. '"Your Americans of Croatian descent don't like communism in
any form."
  Although it is too early for conjecture as to what will happen as a result of the
Belgrade-Moscow break, Paulin said it was possible that Tito would be slain as
were Leon Trotsky and other Stalin opponents.
  "But the situation then is not likely to be any better, and it may be worse,"
he added. "Communist control seems to be too strong to be overthrown
immediately."

                        [Milwaukee Journal, September   4,   1946]
                              From Yugoslav Editor
To the Journal  :



  The lessons in your editorial "Our Defenders of Tito" in reply to a state-
ment of "25 or more directors" of the American Slav Council of Milwaukee
County and the central committee of South Slavic Americans, which appeared
in your news columns under the heading "Slavs Here Rap Yugoslavia Issue,"
certainly should be helpful in opening the eyest of a considerable number of
                                                               —
Milwaukee Slavs, especially Yugoslavs, who had been to quote your words         —
"misled by old world nationalistic feelings or else duped by the American agents
of Russian communism." But I otter a little clarification, especially in regard
to the unfounded claim of the.se "25 directors" that they represent 51 Slavic
member    organizations, apparently meaning the organizations in Milwaukee area.
   As publisher of the local Yugoslav newspaper, I am in position to state that
this is not true or else the 25 directors should publish the names of these 51
organizations. As far as I know, these "directors" in fact have a few individual
followers, who may belong to some of these 51 organizations as individual mem-
bers, using them as their tools and agitators in collecting donations for "war
relief to Yugoslav people."     But none of these organizations (at least none of
the 3S Slovenian organizations in this area) to my knowledge ever officially
•endorsed or approved tlie frequent anti-American and pro-Tito statements, which
these 25 directors have issued in your or the other American papers, thus making
the impression that All Yugoslavs here are 100% behind them and against the
American interests or the form of American government.
   Yes. blame for misleading the Slavs here must be placed on your shoulders,
because of some of your willingness to publish any "statement" and any propa-
ganda for Tito or Russian communism these Slav directors are sending to your
desks, thus planting in the mind of the average Slav reader the thought that,
after all, Tito or Russian communism cannot be so bad when even the Ameiican
papers are printing such favorable statements and stories for both. On the other
hand, the general American public gets the impression that all the Slavs are—
in secret—  Communists and ready to turn against this country any moment they
get their orders from Moscow.
    I can assure you that the great majority of Yugoslavs here really are loyal

Americans, concerned entirely with the interests of their adopted land. And
they are thankful to you for saying so and bringing this out. The great majority
          —                                     —
do not try whether in their hearts or openly to whitewash Tito or his present
 regime in Yugoslavia for shooting down American fliers. On the contrary, they
are condemning this foolish (if it were not so tragic) act of his soldiers. They
just feel the more sorry for the innocent and unfortunate Yugoslav people abroad,
 who have suffered so much during the war, have hoped all these years that they
 would be really liberated by Anglo-Americans and benefited by western democ-
 i-acy after their liberation, but instead have fallen under another slavery and
dictatorship, which threatens to drag them into another war.
72       REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  We know our people in the old country and we know that they don't want to
have Russian communism imposed on them any more than the Americans would
want it. And they are therefore unhappy to think that some day they might be
forced to fight against us.
  If people of Yugoslavia are throwing up their caps and shouting for Tito
today, as you said in another editorial, "Getting Kicked," they are not doing
that because they are ungrateful to the United States for UNRRA goods they
are receiving, but because they have to do that or else they won't get them.
  It's still the same old story in Europe   Before, tliere were kings and kaisers.
                                                 :


The people formerly had to shout for them. Now for the marshals.
                                                      Frank R. Staut,
                 Editor and Publisher, the Obi^or (The Yugoslav Observer),
                                                   820 S. 5th Street, MiUoaiikee.

                              [Milwaukee Journal, Sept.    24, 1946]

                 Slovenians Organize To Block Communists
  About 30 representatives of Slovenian groups                 in the city, principally those
affiliatedwith the Slovenian Catholic union, Monday night organized an associa-
tion which they said hoped to combat any attempt by Communists to infiltrate
into their organizations. They adopted the name of American Slav Alliance for
Upholding American Democracy, Slovenian branch. The meeting was held at
St. John the Evangelist Catholic church hall, S. 9th and W. Mineral Sts.
   "We hope that other nationality groups will form similar organizations," said
Frank R. Staut.
   Frank Lipoglavsek, 3601 W. Burnham St., was elected temporary chairman                      ;

Frank Slatinshek, 81.5 S. 5th St., vice chairman Joseph Luzar, Jr., 1010 S. 9th
                                                           ;


St., treasurer, and Miss Agnes Jenich, 1231 W. Mineral St., recording secretary.
The group's next meeting will be held Oct. 28.


                              [Milwaukee Sentinel, Sept.   25, 1946]

                       Slovenes Here To Fight Communism
  A group of Milwaukee Slovenes has organized to block Communism, it was an-
nounced yesterday by Frank R. Staut, editor and publisher of a Slovenian lan-
guage newspaper. "The name American Slav Alliance For Upholding American
Democracy-Slovenian Branch, was adopted. Tiiese officers were elected Frank            :



Lipoglavsek, president Frank Slatinshek, vice president
                          ;                                Joseph Luzar, Jr.,
                                                                         ;


treasurer, and Miss Agnes Jenich, secretary.



                                            Congress of the United States,
                                                      House of Representatives,
                                                     Wushingtan, D. C, July 6, 1949.
Mr.  Frank R. Staut,
    Editor and Publisher, Obzor,
         830 South Fifth Street, Milwaukee 4, Wis.
  Dear Mr. Staut Reference is made to your letter of June 29 witli respect to
                   :


the inclusion by the Committee on Un-American Activities of both you and your
paper, Obzor, on the list of persons or organizations actively associated with
the American Slav Congress.
  The Committee, in preparing its report on the American Slav Congress, well
realized that certain persons and organizations had withdrawn from association
with the American Slav Congress. Certain of these were given credit in the
publication and in a footnote the Committee stated "It is possible that there
                                                                 :


are other such cases which have not been brought to the attention of the com-
mittee." The information received by the Committee since the publication of
its report conclusively shows that you and your publication for some years have
been actively combatting the Communist movement, especially the infiltration of
Commimists into foreign nationality groups within the Wisconsin area.
   I extend to you the congratulations of the Committee for the fine job you and
your publication are doing to bring a true light of the Communist conspiracy to
the attention of your people.
       Sincerely yours,
                                                                 John   S.   Wood, Chairman.
               REPORT OF CO]VIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                            73

                           POLISH-AMERICAN LABOR COUNCIL
                              Polsko-Amektkanska Rada Pbact
                                         Telephone Walnut 1-S192

                             2063   E.   GRAND      BLVD., DETROIT 11,   MICH.

Officers   :   Fr. Ostrowski, president    ;   A. Arciszewski, vice president    ;   J.   K. Wieczorek, vice
  president  Jan Groom, vice president Anthony Wojsowski, general secretary Bol.
                   ;                                  ;
                                                                                                      ;



  Tomaszewski, treasurer J. D. Wlodarczyk, organizer. Directors Anthony Krawulski,
                               ;
                                                                                     :



  Leon liusinowicz, Jan Artykiewicz, Ign. Piekarniak
                                                                                           May   10, 1949.

The Honorable John S. Wood,
     Chairman of the Committee on Un-American Activities,
          U. 8. House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
  Dear Mr. Chairman General Modelski, testifying before the Subcommittee of
                               :



the Committee on Un-American Activities on March 11, 1949, referred to a docu-
ment which was introduced in the minutes as Exhibit I. The English translation
of this document contains an error namely, it refers to a Polish American Labor
Council, while in the original Polish document the name of the organization
mentioned, is American Polish Labor Council.
  Our organization, the Polish American Labor Council is and always was very
strongly opposed to communism. Our aim is to enlighten the workers of Polish
descent about tlie danger of communism.
  The communists organized the American Polish Labor Council to counteract the
activities of our organization and to confuse the public. Mr. Leon Krzycki, the
president of the communist dominated American Polish Labor Council, is not
and never was in any way connected with our organization, the Polish American
Labor Council.
  Since the testimony of General Modelski was widely publicized and in that
connection the name of our organization was mentioned as being subversive, we
would be very grateful for a correction of the translation of Exhibit I and an
appropriate statement with regard to that matter.
           Very truly yours,
                                                              Frank Ostrowski, President.
                                                              Anthony Wojsowski, Gen. Sec.
               —
  Note. The following footnote, included in the Report on the American Slav
Congress, p. 17, with reference to the above organization is for the clarification
                                                                             ;


of tlie record         :


  "In a publication of the committee, containing the testimony of Gen. Izyador
Modelski, former Military Attache of the Polish Embassy in Washington, D. C,
reference was made to the Polish-American Labor Council as being a suitable
contact for employees of the Polish Embassy. The organization to which this
publication intended to refer was the American-Polish Labor Council and not the
Polish-American Labor Council, tiie Polish-American Labor Council being a
thoroughly loyal and patriotic organization. This mistake was the result of an
error made by the translator of certain documents turned over to the Committee
by General ^Modelski. The organization referred to above (i. e., in the Report
on the American Slav Congress) as the American-Polish Labor Council is men-
tioned in this report upon numerous occasions. This organization, it is hoped,
will not become confused with the loyal organization identified in this statement
as the Polish-American Labor Council."



                                    Institute for Research in Social Science,
                                              The University of North Carolina,
                                               Chai)el Hill, December 3, I9.'f9.
The Honorable John S. Wood,
    Chairman, Un-American Affairs Committee,
        House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
  My Dear Congressman Wood I have been informed that the Un-American
                                                :


Affairs Committee, in its report concerning the Culture and Scientific Con-
ference for World Peace, which was held in New York last March 25-27, has
stated that I was a sponsor of the conference, and appeared on the program.
 Simply in order to keep the record straight,                   I   should like to state the facts so
 that there will be no misunderstanding.
74         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AIVIERICAN ACTIVITIES

  I was never a sponsor of the conference, and I publicly withdrew from the
program on March 22, stating my reasons quite emphatically. The fact that
I had refused to appear on the program was reported in a front-page story
in the New York Times in its edition of iNIarch '2~t. 1!)4!>. and also in a first-page
story in Newsweek, page 19, in its editi(m of April 4, 1949. Also, my letter of
withdrawal was printed in full by the Durham Morning Herald, Durham. N. C,
under date of March I'JT. 1949, and a copy of the same letter was addressed to
the Secretary of State and may be found in the State Department file. In this
letter stating why I could not associate myself with the program I made the
following comment which, I believe, makes my position clear.
   "As regards my own position, I am on the whole a suppoi'ter of the policy
of the State Department in the postwar period. In my opinion, our international
polic.v has been much moi-e conducive to world peace and to the settlement
of outstanding points at issue than have been the policy and actions of the-
Soviet Union. Although I feel that the objectives and the technique of the
United States in foreign affairs can be at times improved, my opinions are such
that I canncit associate myself with any wholesale criticism of the State Depart-
ment or with any propagandistic attempt to apologize for the actions of the
Soviet Union in current international affairs. Furthermore, I am so firmly
wedded to the democratic procedure for arriving at decisions on scientific evi-
dence, that I will not have any part in resolutions or other decisions of a con-
ference where this procedure is not guaranteed.
   "Because of my sincere interest in world peace and because I accepted the
invitation of the conference in good faith. I have prepared a paper arguing
for the scientific attitude and the increased use of science in international affairs,
which I am attaching to this letter. However, for the reasons outlined above,
I have grave doubts that, despite the best efforts of yourself, an atmosphere of
scholarly and scientific deliberation will prevail at the conference.
   "Rather than engage in a travesty of a scientific meeting, I hereby resign from
the conference."
   I had accepted an invitation to appear on the program of what I understood
to be a conference on world peace which was to involve a scholarly and scientific
analysis of various possibilities. The invitation had been extended to me by
Professor Harlow Shapley, of Harvard, as one scientist to another. As soon
as I became aware of what the real purposes of the conference were, I withdrew,
but by this time my name had already been printed on the program. Since I
emphatically do not approve of the manner in which the conference was set up
or handled, I naturally do not wish my position to be misunderstood by the
Un-American Affairs Committee, or anyone else.
  Thanking you for your consideration, I remain.
        Yours sincerely,
                                              John   Giixin, Professor of Anthropology.
  Note.   —Dr.   Gillin's resignation     from the "Cultural and             Scientific   Conference
for   World Peace" was announced          in the prints as follows       :




                          [New York Times, Friday, March         25, 1949]

           Police Lift all Restrictions on Cultural Meeting Pickets

  Those withdrawing as sponsors were Franklin P. Adams, writer Lisa Sergio,          ;


lecturerand radio commentator and John Gillin, professor of anthropology at
                                      ;


the University of North Carolina in addition to Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, of
                                          ;


the Jewish Theological Seminary, who announced his withdrawal on Wednesday.-



                             [Newsweek Magazine, April      4,   1949]

                            Peace: Evebtbodt         Wars Over       It

  The first result   Several
                      :           non-Communists, who had agreed to sponsor the
Conference for World Peace in belief that it would be what it proclaimed, awoke
to a sudden realization of its true nature, and quit. Among them were Canada
Lee, the Negro actor; Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, of the Jewish Theological
Seminary Lisa Sergio, the radio commentator Prof. John Gillin, of the Univer-
            ;                                           ;



sity of North Carolina; and Franklin (Information, Please) P. Adams.
         REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         75
              [Durham   (N. C.)   Morning Herald, Sunday, March   27, 1949]

  This newspaper printed in full Dr. (lillin's lettei- of resignation addressed to
Dr. Hurlow Shapley, dated March 2-, 1949, before the beginning of the conference.



      Review of the Scientific and Cultural Conference for World Peace
  A  check of the records of the Committee on Un-American Activities discloses
that a clerical error has been made in the record of Henry A. Murray, who is
listed on page 18 as having been atflliated "with from 21 to 30 Communist-front
organizations."
   His name should be withdrawn from this particular section of the report.
He is, however, properly listed as a sponsor of the Scientific and Cultural
Conference for World Peace.


                                            o
