                                                                        ->

                                                                u,nion Calendar No. 763
82d   Congress, 2d Session                                                    House Report No. 2431




                       ANNUAL REPORT
                                               OF THE


COMMITTEE                                    ON UN-AMERICAN
                                   ACTIVITIES
                             FOR THE YEAR                             1951




                                    FEBRUARY            17,    1952
                                         (Date of original release)


       JULY   2,   1952.   —Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State
                                of the   Union and ordered    to be printed




                                     Prepared and released by the

COMMITTEE          ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                            WASHINGTON.    D. C.
                  COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                     United States House of Representatives
                          JOHN S. WOOD, Georgia, Chairman
FRANCIS    B.   WALTER, Pennsylvania     HAROLD H. VELDE, Illinois
MORGAN     M.   MOULDER, Missouri        BERNARD W. KEARNEY, New         York
CLYDE DOYLE, California                    DONALD L. JACKSON,     California
JAMES B. FRAZIER, Jr., Tennessee           CHARLES E. POTTER,     Michigan
                         Frank   S.Tavenner, Jr., Counsel
                         Louis J. Russell, Senior Investigator
                         John W. Carrixgton, Clerk of Committee
                         Raphael I. Nixon, Director of Research
      II
                                 CONTENTS
                                                                                    Page
Foreword                                                                               1

Communist      efforts to infiltrate farm groups                                       6
Communist      tactics among veterans groups                                           7
Hollywood motion-picture industry                                                      7
Communist      activities in vital defense areas in the   United States:
        Baltimore                                                                     9
        Massachusetts                                                                13
American Committee To Survey Trade Union Conditions              in   Europe         17
Jack    Kawano                                                                       18
Oliver   Edmund Clubb                                                                19
Complicitv of American Communists in the destruction of freedom in the
  Far East                       _•                                                  22
Files   and reference service                                                        24
Publications                                                                         26
Recommendations                                                                      28

                                                                               in
                                                 Union Calendar No.              763
82d Congress              )    HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES                    J    Report
  M Session               S                                                t   No. 2431




ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERI-
       CAN ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR 1951


July   2,    1952.   — Committed to the       Committee of the Whole House on the State
                              of the   Union and ordered to be printed




Mr,    Wood of Georgia, from the Committee on Un-American Activities,
                                   submitted the following


                                          REPORT
                          [Pursuant to Public     Law   601, 79th Cong.]
        IV
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-
  AMERICAN ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR 1951

                                    Foreword
  The following report for the year 1951 is submitted to the House
of Representatives in pursuance of Public Law G01 (sec. 121, subsec. q
(2) ) adopted August 2, 1946, which made the Committee on Un-Amer-
ican Activities a standing committee of the House of Representatives,
and House Resolution 7, of the Eighty-second Congress.
   The duties of the Committee on Un-American Activities as de-
scribed in Public Law 601 enacted by the Seventy-ninth Congress are
in part as follows    :




     The Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole      or by subcommittee,
is   authorized to make from time to time investigations of   (1) the extent, char-
acter, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States;
(2) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propa-
ganda that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and at-
tacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution   ;


and  (3) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress in any
necessary remedial legislation.
   The committee is aware more than ever before of the importance
and magnitude of the duty entrusted it by the Congress.
   During 1951 the committee held more than 100 public hearings and
nearly as many executive meetings. The members on several instances
commenced hearings as early as 8 o'clock in the morning and frequent-
ly the hearings would extend into the late evening hours.
     The committee has continued    its established policy of permitting

every  witness  to appear   accompanied   by legal counsel. The witness
has had the opportunity to confer with counsel on every occasion he
so desired. AVhile it is true that a considerable amount of the com-
mittee's time has been taken by such conferences, the committee, in
the interest of fairness, will continue to pursue this policy.
  The committee on every available occasion has publicly invited in-
dividuals, especially former Communists, to cooperate with the com-
mittee by appearing before the committee and making such statements
of facts as will assist the committee in its assigned duty to investigate
the extent and character of subversive and un-American activities.
  The committee has also frequently invited any person named in testi-
mony before the committee as being a member of the Communist Party
or Communist-front organization, to come before the committee to
either affirm or deny the statements made concerning him.
  The committee has been careful to maintain its established policy
to avoid that noncooperative witnesses are not heard before a sub-
committee of one member and has insured that in hearing such wit-
nesses there be present at least one member from each of the majority
and minority representation.
                                                                           1
2        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   The committee during 1951 conducted hearings to ascertain the
extent and success of Communist efforts to influence the American
farmers' and veterans' groups. The committee was pleased to find
that by and large these inherently loyal groups repulsed all efforts
of the Communists to gain strength within their ranks.
   It was necessary in 1951 for the committee to again conduct hear-
ings concerning Communist infiltration into the motion-picture in-
dustry. Hearings conducted in 1947 resulted in the identification
of 10 persons associated with the motion-picture industry as members
of the Communist Party. Later, these 10 persons were given the op-
portunity of denying or affirming their membership in the Communist
Party. As a result of their refusal to answer pertinent questions
asked by the committee, these individuals were cited by Congress for
contempt, and, subsequently, all 10 received and served jail sentences.
There were many critics of the committee who claimed at that time
that the refusal of these individuals to answer questions did not estab-
lish the proof of their membership in the Communist Party, and voiced
doubt that these persons were Communists. During the hearings in
1951 all 10 of these persons were again identified as members of the
Communist Party.
  It was the hope of  the committee, after having conducted the 1947
hearings, that the motion-picture industry would accept the initiative
and take positive and determined steps to check communism within
the industry. Unfortunately, however, the spokesmen for the indus-
try persisted at that time in painting an unrealistic picture of com-
munism in Hollywood and some, at least, would have had the Amer-
ican public believe that there was no such thing as organized com-
munism in the motion-picture industry.
   The committee pursued its established policy that whenever it is
obvious that a responsible group, whether in industry, labor, or inde-
pendent organization, does not perform its duty in guarding itself
against Communist influence,- then the committee must expose this
defect.   So it was with the motion-picture industry. The commit-
tee's hearings in 1951 resulted in the identification of more than 300
persons associated with the industry as members of the Communist
Party. There were varying opinions given by witnesses as to the
success of the Communists in influencing the content of motion pic-
tures.   The fact was evident that such efforts were made.
   An opinion given the committee, by a former official of the Com-
munist Party, concerning the success with which the motion pictures
were influenced by the Communists, disclosed that Earl Browder,
while he was head of the Communist Party, made the statement              :



    We are less interested in a film that lias Communist context, wheve a few
hundred people will come and see it. We are more interested in an ordinary
John-and-Mary picture where there is only a drop of progressive thought in it.
So therefore the approach must be not that the party wanted to take Holly-
wood by the throat and change the content. The party understood that Holly-
wood is a cultural center and has very prominent people there, people who write,
who go to Washington, who go to New York. They are creative people. And
where you have creative people, if you influence their thinking, their product
will be somewhat different. We are going to have a different
                                                                product.
   This individual in explaining the manner in which the Communist
Party might exert influence over the content of a motion picture stated
that he believed that there had been created in
                                                 Hollywood an atmos-
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                              3

phere for "progressive pictures" and no atmosphere for "reactionary
pictures."
  Looking      at   it   in this light, this   former   officialstated that he believed
that the   Communist Party had succeeded                    fairly well in the Holly-
wood community.
  Of importance was the disclosure of Hollywood as a reservoir for
financing Communist objectives, without which the Communist Party
and its fronts in the United States would have had difficulty operating.
The committee has scheduled certain additional hearings concerning
the motion-picture industry as a result of the 1951 investigation.
   During 1951 the committee conducted an investigaiton toward ascer-
taining the nature and scope of Communist infiltration into areas of
vital defense industry in the United States.
   Hearings were conducted concerning this type of Communist activ-
ity in Maryland and Massachusetts. Through the testimony given by
Mrs. Mary Stalcup Markward and Mr. Herbert A. Philbrick, both of
whom had operated as undercover agents in the Communist Party
for the FBI, it was disclosed that as early as 1945 Communist Party
members were given instructions to take employment in industries
considered vital to the defense efforts of the United States. It was
also disclosed that surveys were conducted by the Communist Party
which would enable it to learn the exact extent of our national defense
efforts.   Arepresentative number from the more than 100 persons in
the labor field identified as Communists were called before the com-
mittee and, without exception, they refused to answer questions con-
cerning Communist membership and association.
  The committee also commenced hearings during 1951 to ascertain
the American aspects of the Soviet espionage ring disclosed by the
arrest of Richard Sorge in Japan. The original information concern-
ing the Sorge ring was discovered by American occupation forces in
Japan.
  The committee was indeed fortunate in being able to hear Gen.
Charles A. Willoughby, who had been in charge of the military intel-
ligence branch of the United States occupation forces in Japan. Gen-
eral Willoughby introduced voluminous evidence relating to the Sorge
matter. The committee also heard testimony from Mitsusada Yoshi-
kawa, who was one of the Japanese procurators who investigated the
members of the Sorge ring for the Japanese Government.
  From this testimony and evidence, the committee learned that there
were a number of Americans involved in the Sorge espionage ap-
paratus, and it is the committee's intention that these individuals and
the extent of their involvement be completely exposed.
  In 1950 the committee conducted extensive investigation which re-
sulted in hearings in the Territory of Hawaii. During those hearings,
the committee called Jack Kawano, who had been a prominent labor
leader. Kawano, while denying that he was a member of the Com-
munist Party at the time of his appearance, refused to answer ques-
tions concerning former membership in or association with members
of the Communist Party.
   During 1951 Kawano again appeared before the committee and on
this occasion answered all questions propounded to him concerning his
membership in and association with the Communist Party. Kawano's
testimony definitely established that the strongest labor union in the
Territory of Hawaii, the International Longshoremen's and Ware-
4    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

housemen's Union, was under complete Communist domination. The
committee is naturally alarmed at these revelations because of the
strategic importance of the Territory of Hawaii to the national secu-
rity or this country.
  Since Whittaker Chambers first appeared before this committee,
with the eventual result that Alger Hiss went to jail, the committee
has determined that Chambers' disclosures be carefully pursued.
  Chambers, whose memory for individuals and events has been
amazing, advised the committee of an incident which, according to
his recollection, occurred in 1932.  He recalled that while he was
editor of the Communist publication New Masses, the offices of the
publication were visited by a man who was employed by the United
States Department of State in China, and who requested to see a
former editor of New Masses. Chambers recalled that this State
Department employee had a letter of introduction from Agnes Smed-
ley, a left-wing writer, who was named by Richard Sorge as having
been an espionage contact.   Chambers   recalled this person's   name   as
"Chubb."
   The committee called Oliver Edmund Clubb, a Foreign Service
officer of the State Department, who, at first
                                               questioning, could recall
none of the facts related by Chambers. Subsequently, through the
use of old diaries, Clubb did recall the incident and verified in almost
every aspect the circumstances as related by Whittaker Chambers.
The committee has learned that Mr. Clubb's suitability for continued
employment is presently under consideration by the State Department.
   This committee, over the past years, has received an alarming
volume of information reflecting the existence and operation of Soviet
espionage in the United States. In order that the American people
and their representatives might have an understanding of this treach-
ery, an extensive survey was conducted by the committee to expose
this operation.   The result of the committee's work was compiled in
a report entitled "The Shameful Years."
   The committee learned that shortly after communism first became
personified in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United
States of America became the objective of one of the most intense
and concerted espionage operations. The committee report shows
that over a period of more than 30 years the Soviet Union has abused
every principle of ethics and international law in order to acquire
all information
                 concerning the industrial might and defense measures
of this country.
  Many of the committee's recommendations are based on the findings
that are contained in the report, The Shameful Years. On the basis
of this record, the committee feels that its recommendations are the
minimum to afford protection to this country.
  In the course of hearings during 1951 and
                                                 particularly in those
dealing with the motion-picture industry, the committee became alarm-
ingly aware that many persons have a misunderstanding of the true
purpose of subpenas issued for witnesses to appear before the com-
mittee.   The committee regrets the tendency on the part of some in-
dividuals to consider a committee subpena as the
                                                       equivalent of a
statement of charges or a warrant of arrest for the
                                                    person served.
  The committee is gravely cognizant that such a
                                                     misunderstanding
may seriously hamper the proper procedure of the committee in its
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                5

functions.    There are numerous instances, where, in the pursuit of
logical investigative leads, individuals innocent of any stigma of
subversion or wrongdoing are subpenaed to furnish valuable informa-
tion to the committee.     It has been brought to the attention of the
committee that many of the persons so subpenaed, especially those of
public prominence, have been subjected to ridicule and discrimina-
tion as a result of having received such subpenas.
  The Congress will recognize, as does this committee, that such an
attitude is imprudent and harmful to innocent individuals as well
as to the work of the committee.     For this reason, it is necessary to
reiterate that the American people should be guided by the public
 record of the committee before judging individuals who appear before
the committee, rather than to make any premature evaluation on the
 mere service of subpena on a given individual.
   During the past year, this committee has been subject, as have many
congressional committees in the past, to the efforts of various pressure
groups. The committee recognizes that for the most part all of the
 American public is interested in the proper identification of Com-
 munists and Communist endeavors. The committee, however, cannot
 lend itself to any selfish aims to discredit or defame any persons or
groups. To this end, the committee must affirm its directed aims to
 investigate subversive and un-American activities, and takes this
opportunity to invite any person having definite information con-
cerning the identities of any Communist or knowledge of subversive
endeavors to furnish such information to the committee.
   The committee feels that in the present troubled times there is a
tendency to loosely identify persons as members of the Communist
 Party. This tendency in many ways works adversely to the efforts
of this and other committees and agencies to properly identify mem-
bers of the Communist Party for the American public. In order to
avoid that, through public misunderstanding, the term "Communist"
might become nothing more than a descriptive adjective or a low
epithet, the committee will continue to pursue the practice of furnish-
ing positive proof of the Communist membership of any person or
group so described.
   The committee, in its exploration of the extent and tactics of the
Communist Party in the United States, has met with many obstacles
and difficulties. Not the least of these has been the reluctance of
former Communists to give testimony before the committee which
might bring upon them public censure and economic retaliation.
   The principal source of committee information during 1951 was
the former Communist. The knowledge now possessed by the Con-
gress and by the American people is the total of the sums of informa-
tion disclosed by men and women who were formerly in the ranks
of the Communist Party. To deny to these cooperative witnesses a
full opportunity for social, economic, and
                                             political rehabilitation fol-
lowing their testimony before committees of the Congress will not
only render more difficult the obtaining of authentic and necessary
information about the Communist conspiracy and the operations of
Communist branches and     sections, but, what is equally important,
may  serve to drive the former Communist into other associations
which prey upon the disillusioned and outcast. Without exception
cooperative witnesses profess to have broken completely their philo-
      H. Rept. 2431, 82-2   2
6     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

sophical and physical ties with the Communist Party. All have been
made the object of vilification and abuse by their former comrades.
Finding a welcome neither among loyal Americans nor Communists,
the friendly witness becomes in truth and in fact a social problem and
an embittered piece of human flotsam. The former Communist who
has left the ranks of the conspiracy and desires to place his knowledge
of the party at the disposal of his Government should be given every
opportunity to do so, and it is the belief of the committee that he should
be permitted, insofar as his subsequent conduct and qualifications per-
mit, to rehabilitate himself in the eyes of and in the ranks of loyal
American citizens.
  Today there are thousands of former Communists in the United
States; men and women who look upon their life in the Communist
conspiracy as a tragic mistake which they sincerely regret having
made. They prefer to speak, and they will speak, given the sympa-
thetic understanding of their fellowmen.     The committee recom-
mends that cooperative witnesses before the committee be accorded a
fuller measure of understanding by employers and associates, to the
end that they can take their places in the ranks of those who are
engaged in the mortal struggle against world domination.
  During 1951 the committee's hearings disclosed the positive identi-
fication ofmore individuals as members of the Communist Party than
during any preceding year in the history of the committee.
  In line with the established policy of the committee, no schedule for
proposed hearings is being announced but the Congress may be assured
that this committee will continue to pursue every aspect of subversive
and un-American     activities.


           Communist Efforts to Infiltrate Farm Groups
    The committee  is aware that in the Communist formula for world

conquest, one of the prime objectives in any country is control in the
agricultural field. In Soviet Russia, the first endeavors were made to
place the farming population under Communist subservience. The
much publicized and often repeated "5-year plans" of the Soviets have
dealt largely with the collective farms, which in reality are nothing
more than slave-labor camps. The committee has learned that in the
Soviet plan for the conquest of China the principal target was the
capturing of the great mass of peasants. In this the Soviet efforts
were so successful that it was sometime before the Western World
realized that the turmoil in China was a Communist revolution rather
than an "agrarian reformation" which some persons would have us
believe.
    Possessing this information, the committee determined to ascertain
what inroads, if any, had been made by the Communists among the
American farmer. In furtherance of this determination the com-
mittee called Lenient U. Harris, who was secretary of the farmers
national committee of the Communist Party in the United States. Mr.
Harris, while refusing to answer any questions dealing with Com-
munist membership or association, did admit an interest in various
farm groups in the United States.
  The committee is pleased to report that with but few exceptions the
farmers' groups within the United States have been impervious to the
Communist efforts to infiltrate into their ranks.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                i




           Communist Tactics Among Veterans Groups
  Communism, having gained power through national discord, has
always preyed upon the misfortune of its enemies, the free countries
of the world.
   In the United States during the year 1932 there was a group of well-
meaning men, who, having served their country loyally during World
War I, and finding little or no employment, were ready to exhibit
dissatisfaction with their Government.        The Communists, miscalcu-
lating the caliber of these men, endeavored to gain advantages through
using the veterans to accomplish their selfish aims.
   The committee heard the testimony of John T. Pace, who, as a
Communist during that period, was assigned to effect control of the
veterans for the Communists. Mr. Pace testified that it was the
desire of the Communists to accomplish an armed revolution which
could be converted to a Communist victory.
   The committee hopes that, if the Communists again choose to accom-
plish a revolution in the United States, it endeavors to influence a group
of veterans because if they do so the country will have no worries
from that quarter.
   The testimony of Mr. Pace only reiterated what the committee
already knew concerning veterans' groups; that with but few excep-
tions there is no more loyal group within the United States than those
men and women who have sacrificed so much that this country may
be free of such tyrannies as communism.

               Hollywood Motion Picture Industry

  During the year 1951, the committee devoted a great deal of atten-
tionand investigative effort to Communist infiltration in the Holly-
wood motion-picture industry. The motion-picture business repre-
sents an investment of billions of dollars. It is not the committee's
purpose to destroy this investment. It must be remembered, however,
that the American public also has an investment in Hollywood for,
prior to the advent of television, the American public relied almost
solely upon Hollywood motion pictures for visual, dramatic presenta-
tion.  It must be realized that moving pictures have a tremendous
emotional effect upon the audience which views them. The same is
true of television shows. Because of the vast new potentialities of
television it seems logical that Hollywood motion pictures will some
time in the future be presented on a large scale to television audiences.
  The committee hopes that its investigation of Hollywood will have
a far-reaching effect and prevent a large-scale future Communist
infiltration of the television industry. It is logical to assume that the
Communists     will endeavor to infiltrate television on a large scale
because it is rapidly becoming an important entertainment medium
in the United States.    The committee realizes that the vast majority
of entertainers and workers in the entertainment field are patriotic
and loyal Americans, but the flow of money to Communist coffers
which comes from those who are disloyal must be stopped.
  The need for remedial action was amply demonstrated when it
was found that four Communist-front organizations, which had oper-
ated in the State of California, had received approximately $1,000,000
from members of the Hollywood motion-picture industry. It had
8    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

long been known that Hollywood was one of the principal sources of
funds for the Communist Party of the United States.
   During the course of the hearings, certain persons who would not
cooperate with the committee tried to minimize the value of the com-
mittee's investigation by stating that the Communists in Hollywood
were not a bad lot that they were all good Communists who had never
                      ;


attempted to overthrow the Government; that they had not carried
on espionage; and that no Communist propaganda had been inserted
in motion pictures.    These persons purposely overlooked the principal
reason for the committee's investigation. They did not want to bring
out the fact that the money which flowed into the Communist Party
from Hollywood helped to make it possible for those who have sought
and those who still seek to overthrow the United States by force and
violence and to betray its defense secrets to an enemy to lay the ground-
work for future catastrophies which would result in death to American
sons on world battlefields and severely damage the economic status
of every citizen of the United States.
   It has been noted in press reports that the same persons who said
there were no Communists in Hollywood in 1945, which was the date
of the committee's first investigation of the industry, are now saying
that communism in Hollywood is mythical. If communism in Hol-
lywood is now mythical, it is only because this committee conducted
three investigations to bring it about. The industry itself certainly
did not accomplish this. It should be recalled that during the 1947
hearings the motion-picture industry adopted a hostile attitude toward
the committee's hearings. In deference to the industry, however, it
might be said that there was substantial cooperation during the 1951
hearings as compared with those of 1947. The committee holds no
brief for those still connected with the industry who try to minimize
the extent of      Communist   infiltration in   Hollywood and the prime
danger   it   represents.
  The committee was astounded when the true extent of Communist
infiltrationand manipulation in the Hollywood motion-picture indus-
try was disclosed. The committee had assumed that its 1947 hearings
had served to minimize the power of the Communist Party among the
devotees of the silver screen. However, it was found
                                                          during the
course of the 1951 hearings that actually the 1947
                                                    hearings had not
lessened the extent of Communist infiltration in Hollywood and had
not prevented the flow of money from Communists and fellow travel-
ers employed in the industry to the Communist
                                                Party. The influence
of the party in the Screen Writers' Guild,
                                           however, was severely cur-
tailed as a result of the hearings held      by the committee during the
year 1947.
  It must be stated, however, that, if the same number of Communists
existed in every segment of American life as in the case of
                                                            Hollywood
motion-picture writers during past years, the United States would be
in a precarious position.
  The committee's investigation of the motion-picture
                                                       industry was
concerned almost entirely with the problem of
                                              exposure of the actual
members of the Communist Party and did not deal, except in a few
instances, with the problem of those who held or had held the status
of fellow travelers.
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                    9

  It must be realized that investigations of industries, such as the
Hollywood motion-picture industry, are costly at least insofar as the
funds allotted to a congressional committee are concerned. It would
be an impossibility for the committee to call before it all of the fellow
travelers in Hollywood, or in any other industry for that matter.          On
the question of fellow travelers, suffice it to say, for the present at least,
that Edward Dmytryk best demonstrated the damage done by fellow
travelers when he said, in a story which appeared in the Saturday
Evening Post, on May 19, 1951, entitled "What Makes a Hollywood
Communist?":
  The time has come now when even the fellow   traveler must get out. They're
like the                                         —
              capsule that protects the tubercle dissolve that waxy covering
           waxy
and you could kill tuberculosis in no time.
Further regarding the fellow traveler, Dymtryk, according to the
Saturday Evening Post story, said        :




  I know now that you can't aid a Communist front in any way without hurting
your own country. The Hiss conviction, the Judith Coplon trial, they all show
that no matter how small a fraction of the party is guilty of espionage, the
responsibility is on the whole party, and anyone who supports it.

  During the 1951 hearings of the committee dealing with the Holly-
wood motion-picture industry, there were more than 300 persons con-
nected with the industry who were definitely identified as members of
the Communist Party either past or present. The committee in these
hearings alone heard more than 90 witnesses.

Communist Activities in Vital Defense Areas in the United States
                                  baltimore

     The committee during  the past year has been devoting a large share
of            to the investigation of the exposure of Communist activ-
     its efforts
ities in vital defense centers in the United States.     It adopted the
procedure of conducting its investigations by defense production areas,
because previous investigations of Communist-dominated unions have
left untouched Communist-front activities in the areas where the
                                     —
Communist unions were located untouched, even though the fronts
were designed to aid the Communist Party in its infiltration of our
basic industries.   The old procedure also left untouched members of
the Communist Party who had infiltrated non-Communist unions,
under instructions of the Communist Party, for the purpose of divid-
ing the leadership of these unions, if not successful in obtaining abso-
lute control.
   The role the Communist Party has laid out for the labor movement
in the United States is expressed in the report of the CIO Executive
Board Committee, which was appointed "to investigate charges that
the United Office and Professional Workers of America" were follow-
ing policies consistently directed toward the achievement of the pro-
gram for purposes of the Communist Party. In this respect, the CIO
committee found    :



  The Communist movement, from       its inception, purported to be a movement
of working people.   Its basic thesis was that a new order of society must be
created by revolution of the working classes and that the "dictatorship of the
proletariat" must be established.    Because of this basic thesis, Communist
philosophy has always been predicated upon the use of trade-unions as an instru-
ment of Communist policy and as a weapon by which the party could organize
10      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

the working classes and bring nearer the revolution from which the dictatorship
of the party would emerge.    As Lenin said       :

                                                         *   *  * to resort to all
   "It is necessary to agree to any and every sacrifice
sorts of devices, maneuvers, and illegal methods, to evasion and subterfuge, in
order to penetrate the trade-unions, to remain in them and to carry on Commu-
nist work in them at all costs."
   The Communist movement has thus always sought to operate through trade-
unions, to speak in the language of labor and as a spokesman and leader of
labor, and thus, by trickery and stratagem, to direct
                                                        labor toward the goals of
communism.
  The use of the trade-unions as an instrument of the Communist
policy has been demonstrated by both intent
                                                and action. Communist
strategy  to destroy  this country's industrial might is the same today
as it was during the days prior to World War II when Hitler and
Stalin were allies.
   Compare the actions of the Communist labor leaders of today in
support of the Communist "Labor Committee for Peace" with the
actions of these same Communist labor leaders in support of the
"American Peace Mobilization" which flourished prior to World War
II.   Like the Labor Committee for Peace, the American Peace
Mobilization was violently protesting the efforts of the United States
to assist free countries of the world repulse aggression.   This aggres-
sion of the 1939-41 period, which was led by Hitler, was fully sup-
ported by Stalin. Thus, these American Communists who decry
fascism were wholeheartedly supporting it, while at the same
time denouncing the United States as an imperialistic warmongering
nation because of our aid to nations who were fighting fascism. Their
cries of today are identical. The United States is again an imperial-
istic   warmongering nation because              it   opposes Communist aggression
in Korea.
  The       of the defense-area investigations, wmich resulted in pub-
         first
lic           was that of Baltimore. In this area, in addition to vital
      hearings,
electronic, aircraft, maritime, and shipbuilding industries, there is
located the vital steel-processing plant of the Bethlehem Steel Corp.
known as Sparrows Point. This plant is the largest steel-processing
plant in the United States and the second largest such plant in the
world. The importance of this plant to the Communist Party can
best be understood by reviewing the testimony of Mr. Mary Stalcup
Markward.
  Mrs. Markward,  a Virginia housewife, acted as an undercover in-
formant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1943 until
she was expelled by the Communist Party in February 1951 as an
enemy of the Communist Party. Mrs. Markward, who rose within
the  Communist ranks to the position of treasurer of the Communist
Party for the District of Columbia, and was a ranking functionary of
District 4 of the Communist Party which included Maryland, testi-
fied at length on the Communist activities in this area.
                                                         Interrogated
with respect to the importance of local industries to the Communist
Party, Mrs. Markward stated               :




  In District     4,   and particularly   in Baltimore, the decision of the district   com-
mittee was that the steel industry should be the primary concentration point;
and the maritime industry should be the secondary concentration point, the
maritime industry including seamen, longshoremen, and other related things.
  Also, electrical workers were to be organized. In Washington, D. C, building
trades were the primary concentration point.
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES               11

  As disclosed in Mrs. Markward's testimony, these decisions were not
reached by the local Communist organization but were decisions which
were handed down by the national committee of the Communist
Party.
   The importance which the Communists placed upon the steel in-
dustry in Baltimore can also be seen through the fact that George
Meyers, the labor secretary of the Communist Party of Maryland
(presently under indictment for violating provisions of the Smith
Act), was assigned to devote his full efforts to Communist infiltration
of the steel industry. The Communists were successful in establish-
ing a cell at the Sparrows Point plant of the Bethlehem Steel Corp.,
even though the anti-Communist United Steel Workers of America
is the employees' bargaining agent.
   The committee subpenaed eight of the leading Communist em-
ployees at the Sparrows Point plant, all of whom refused to answer
all questions relating to their Communist Party activities on the

grounds of self-incrimination. One employee, Robert W. Lee, even
refused to name his present and previous employers, or to supply the
committee with the name of his wife. He took this latter stand be-
cause at the time of his testimony, his wife, Eugenie Greer Lee, was
a school teacher in the public-school system of Baltimore.    Howard
Bernard Silverberg was an employee at Sparrows Point and, together
with his wife, founded the Communist "Baltimore County Committee
for Peace." Silverberg also refused to answer pertinent questions
on the grounds of self-incrimination.
   The hearings on Baltimore developed that the Communist Party
of this district did not establish a Maryland or District of Columbia
branch of the Labor Committee for Peace, but rather organized a
new Communist peace organization, the Maryland Committee for
Peace. To attract scores of unsuspecting members of the clergy, to-
gether with a large group of industrial and white-collar workers,
the Maryland Committee for Peace drafted its own peace petition,
which was designed to seek the same advantages to the Communists
as the Stockholm Peace Pledge. Through circulating their own peti-
tion, the Communists in Baltimore were enabled to present a front
not officially tied in with the Labor League for Peace or the Stock-
holm appeal. To give their organization a respectable appearance,
Phil Frankfeld (presently under indictment for violating provisions
of the Smith Act), then chairman of the Communist Party of Mary-
land and the District of Columbia, selected Ruth H. Bleier, a medical
intern at the Sinai Hospital; Gunther Wertheimer, a graduate stu-
dent at Johns Hopkins University and Louis Shub, a concert pianist,
                                    ;

to create the new organization.       These individuals perfectly suited
the Communist needs because they had never been publicly identified
as members of the Communist Party, nor had they been overly iden-
tified with predecessor Communist -front groups.         Yet the fact of
their affiliation, as disclosed by the Baltimore hearings, was that these
individuals had been disciplined members of the Communist Party
for some time. The irony of this situation was that Wertheimer, the
organizer and real leader of the Maryland Committee for Peace, was
able to devote his full time to its activities because he was receiving a
veteran's subsistence allowance as a student studying under the provi-
sions of the GI bill.      Dr. Bleier was at the same time supported
]   2   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                 in the Army Medical
through the income of her husband, a captain
Corps   on active  duty  at Walter Reed  Hospital, Washington, D. C.
   The investigation conducted by your committee in Baltimore pro-
duced evidence of the one-time Communist Party membership of
over 500 Baltimore residents. Over 300 of these individuals were
employed in defense industries in the Baltimore area during World
War II. The difficulty presented by the small staff of your commit-
tee made it impossible to conduct full background investigations on
all those identified as having been members of the Communist Party.
Therefore, only a small percentage of those currently employed in
vital industries were subpenaed.    Continuing investigation indicates
that many of the Communists who left vital industry employment
after World War II are now returning to defense industries due to
the defense build-up caused by Soviet aggression. This is, of course,
a direct threat to the security of the United States.
   The Government and industry must take cognizance of the danger
faced through the employment of Communists. On the other hand,
so must the workers, who have the right by ballot to rid themselves
of Communists, their sworn enemy. Milton Seif, an employee in
the Key Highway yard of Bethlehem Ship Building, was a candidate
for the office of business agent of the Key Highway local of the anti-
Communist International Union of Marine Shipbuilding Workers
of America. He was rejected by the workers for this office, only to
be elected by them to the powerful position of chairman of the local's
negotiating committee, after he had refused on the grounds of self-
incrimination to state whether he was a member of the Communist
Party.
  The employees of the American Smelting & Refining Co. continue
to have as their bargaining agent the Communist-dominated Mine,
Mill and Smelter Workers of America, even though Pete Forrest, a
leader of the local, and Walter McMannamon, a former international
representative and organizer of the Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers,
refused to deny their membership in the Communist Party on the
grounds of self-incrimination. This, on top of the fact that the Mine,
Mill and Smelter Workers have been expelled from the CIO for their
subservience to the Communist Party.
  The employees of Westinghouse Electric and the employees of
                      _

Loche Insulator continue to have as their bargaining agent the Com-
munist-dominated United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers
of America. Testimony before this committee has disclosed that
nearly every top leader of the UE has been identified as an active
member of the Communist Party. The CIO has expelled the UE
because of that union's subservience to the Communist
                                                            Party. The
UE   international representative in Baltimore at the time of the com-
mittee's hearings, Herb Nichols, admitted to
                                                signing a Communist
Party nominating petition in 1940. Charged with being a leader of
the Communist Party in Philadelphia and
                                            Delaware, as well as being
a member of the Communist Party at the time he
                                                      testified, Nichols
refused to answer on the grounds of self-incrimination. Not
                                                                  only is
Nichols a member of the Communist                     UE
                                      Party, but the       international
representatives who preceded him, such as Herbert Hirschberg, Jack
Myers, and Jack Zucker were active members of the Communist Party
during the time they were in Baltimore. William W. Hill, a one-
time president of Westinghouse local, whose
                                              legal counsel is 'a mem-
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     13

ber of theCommunist Party, also refused to answer questions relating
to his Communist activities on the ground of self-incrimination.
  The committee is continuing to follow the activities of the Com-
munst Party in Baltimore because of the area's importance to national
defense.  As Communist Party members move into defense employ-
ment or establish new front organizations to solicit aid to Communist
endeavors, the committee will hold additional hearings.
   Since the committee hearings, the Communists have already estab-
lished two new fronts whose activities are being watched.    These
organizations are known as the Committee To Defend American
Freedoms, which was formed by the wives of the Communists sub-
penaed before the committee during its hearings, and the Committee
To Uphold the Bill of Rights, which has been created to defend the
Communist leaders who were indicted for violating the provisions
of the Smith Act.
                                MASSACHUSETTS

   In the testimony relative to the defense area of Baltimore, Mrs.
Mary Stalcup Markward       discussed the Communist strategy of infil-
trating vital defense plants in that area. On July 23, 1951, the com-
mittee took testimony from Herbert A. Philbrick, a resident of Mel-
rose Highlands, a suburb of Boston. Philbrick, like Mrs. Markward,
served for over 7 years as an undercover agent for the Federal Bureau
of Investigation. His activity differed from that of Mrs. Markward
in that she was a publicly identified official of the Communist Party
while he was an underground member and functionary. Philbrick,
who was active in the affairs of Communist-front organizations such
as the Massachusetts Youth Council, the Cambridge Youth Council,
Sweethearts of Servicemen, and the American Youth for Democracy,
became an executive of the Communist Party in 1946 and 1947. As
an executive of the Communist Party, Philbrick was a member of the
district executive committee and, as such, attended Communist Party
district executive conferences which were held in Boston.
   Testifying with respect to the district executive conferences and
their purposes, Philbrick stated:
   I believe these were titled "party building conferences," and each of them,
I found, was for the purpose of infiltrating heavy industries or key industries,
in our area [Massachusetts] and in the United States.
   I remember specifically at one of the party building conferences the com-
rades were instructed to take positions as colonizers that is, to take upon
                                                        ;


themselves the duty of being colonizers in the key industries.
   That meant if you had a job in a small business or nonessential industry,
you should leave it and take a job in one of the key industries. These key
industries were listed by the party leaders. We were told they were industries
important to the war effort.
   We were instructed that the imperialist aims of the United States, the war-
promoting purposes of the United States, were to carry on a war against the
Soviet Union, and a war against the free peoples of the world, that is, peoples
under the jurisdiction of the Soviet Union.
   We were told that the chief means at the disposal of the American imperial-
ists was the production capacity of this country, which they said was owned
directly by the capitalists of the United States.
   We were taught that since this was the key weapon, it was the weapon we
had to attack and destroy as Communists.
   We were told in New England one of the key industries consisted of the
General Electric plant in Lynn. We were told one reason why colonizer*
      H. Kept. 2431, 82-2   3
14        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

were needed there was because it was involved in the development of defense
materials including jet airplane engines.  I might point out that at that

time no one outside of the party had any knowledge that jet airplane engines
were being developed at the General Electric plant in Lynn, but they knew
that.
   Another key industry was the communications industry another was the
                                                                    ;



leather industry, boots and shoes; and another was the clothes industry, serv-
ice clothes, and so forth.
     Wewere told that the steel industry and lines of transportation were very
                                                                     so various
important centers for Communist Party infiltration and colonization,
comrades were ordered at this time to take up jobs at these spots.
     Testifying as to the distinction drawn between
                                                    the key industries
in   New England and nationally, Philbrick further stated                :




     Wewere told in certain sections of the country the steel industry would be
the main point of concentration     whereas in New England the steel industry
                                     '




was not as important.      Wehad seven or eight comrades assigned to the Gen-
eral Electric plant in Lynn, and only one assigned to the steel industry, to my
knowledge, to set up the colonization program.
   Philbrick's testimony with respect to colonizing key industries by
the Communist Party details what we as Americans have to fear from
the employment of Communists in industry.       Philbrick testified that
Daniel Boone Schirmer, a functionary of the Communist Party in
Massachusetts, relating to trade-union and industrial activities, pre-
pared a mimeographed industrial survey form which was
                                                             distributed
to Communist Party workers or functionaries connected with local
industries.   This form, when executed, supplied the Communist Party
with information regarding the following: {a) What the plants were
                                                     the identity of the
producing, (b) the quantity of items produced, (c)
union bargaining agents, (d) the number of employees, (e) number
of Communist Party members employed in the particular plants, (/)
training and qualifications of Communist employees, and (g) the exact
influence the Communists had in the particular unions covering the
particular industries. While this form did not call for blueprints
of the plant, Philbrick testified that Schirmer was obtaining blue-
prints of the industries in the Massachusetts area.
  With the Communists teaching that they must control or destroy
America's key industries, the committee wonders whether a member
of the Communist Party has to be caught in an act of sabotage or
espionage before he forfeits his right to work on America's vital
defense contracts. Philbrick further testified, as has been previously
noted, that the Communist Party knew that the General Electric plant
at Lynn, Mass., was producing jet engines long before it became public-
knowledge.
  Departing from the Massachusetts area and the testimony of Phil
                                                                                        •




brick for a moment, your committee desires at this point to call atten-
tion to evidence obtained during an investigation in another defense
production area. In this area, a vital defense plant has a contract to
produce restricted defense items for the Navy. The Navy made pre-
liminary security investigations of the employees working on the re-
stricted contracts and found that several employees were members
of the Communist Party. The Navy notified the contractor, advising
him that the employees were disqualified to work on restricted contract
items, and asked the contractor to remove these employees from their
  1
    Mrs. Markward testified that steel was the main point of concentration in the defense
area of Baltimore.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN            ACTIVITIES    15

employment on the restricted items. The contractor notified the
employees that they had been denied access to classified employment.
This took place in 1949 and you would assume that the employees were
removed, but, no, the Communist-dominated union of which these
employees are members is so strong that it threatened to strike the
plant if the employees were removed, or, to use the union's exact
language: "Any move to take
                                 ——        off his present job will con-
stitute a contract violation which will not be tolerated by this union,"
with the result that today these employees are still working on re-
stricted contracts and, as Communists, allegedly advising their Com-
munist superiors of the details of the defense items upon which they
work. This is a situation which has to be corrected through remedial
and enforceable   legislation.
   Philbrick identified Nat Mills, Don Bollen, Don Tormey, and Robert
Goodwin as individuals assigned to colonize the General Electric plant
at Lynn, Mass., a plant which we have previously noted is manufac-
turing, among other items, jet-propulsion motors.    Mills, Bollen, and
Goodwin were subpenaed to appear before the committee, and refused
to answer all questions relative to their Communist Party membership
on the grounds of self-incrimination. Don Tormey, while denying
present membership in the Communist Party, refused to answer any
questions on the grounds of self-incrimination with respect to the
years that Philbrick identified him as being a Communist Party mem-
ber.  Tormey, attempting to use his appearance before your commit-
tee as a soap box, claimed that Philbrick's testimony was false when
he was not answering questions relating to Philbrick's testimony.
When questioned specifically as to any particular point related by
Philbrick, however, he refused to deny the testimony on the grounds
of self-incrimination. Bollen also refused, on the grounds of self-
incrimination, to answer questions as to whether he gave directions to
any person to furnish him with information regarding defense-plant
lav-outs.
   In addition to his testimony relating to key industries in the Massa-
chusetts area, Philbrick testified at length with reference to the under-
ground apparatus of the Communist Party to which he was assigned.
Philbrick was assigned to the professional section of the Communist
Party, which section included many of the intellectual leaders of the
community such as doctors, lawyers, and teachers. Philbrick further
testified that there were between TO and 80 members of the profes-
sional section, divided, for security reasons, into 13 groups or cells.
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University
had a group composed of professors, while doctors, lawyers, and Gov-
ernment employees were assigned to their own professional groups.
 Even a group influential in the field of religious activities was a part
of the professional section of the Communist Party. Individuals
from these groups are to be found as the leaders of the front organiza-
tions created by the Communist Party.
   It is these individuals,
                            especially the college professors, who lead
unsuspecting citizens, including our youth, first down the road of so-
cialism and then onto the road of communism, from which
                                                                many are
unable to return.
   Among those Philbrick identified as being members of the profes-
sional section of the Communist Party was Dr. Dirk J. Struik, a
                                                                     pro-
16     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

fessor of mathematics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
According to Philbrick's testimony, both before your committee and
during his appearance as a Government witness in the trial of the 11
Communist leaders, Dr. Struik taught courses at the Communist
Samuel Adams School in Boston, in addition to teaching violent over-
throw of the capitalist state to members of the professional section of
the Communist Party. During this same time, Dr. Struik was teach-
ing his students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
  Arguments are often advanced that the employment of Communist
Party personnel to teach in our schools and universities does not sub-
ject the student to the teacher's ideology, especially        when  the teacher
teaches a nonpolitical subject such as mathematics.             Dr. Struik is a
mathematics professor, and, as an example of the fallacy of the fore-
going argument, it is interesting to examine a statement by the Rev.
Alexander St.-Ivanyi. pastor of the First Unitarian Church of
Jamaica Plain, Mass. In reading this statement, it should be borne in
mind that the Rev. Alexander St.-Ivanyi is the former head of the
Unitarian Church of Hungary and a former member of the Hungarian
Parliament who was forced into exile by the present Communist gov-
ernment in Hungary       :




  It  so happens that I taught "The Growth of Democratic Thought" for "> years
(1947-51) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where Dr. Struik was
professor of mathematics at that time.       In the curriculum of this course I had
to teach Marxism, and its present-day varieties, namely Leninism and Stalinism,
also.   According to the plan of instruction, my group of students was changed
every term, so that in the 5 years I met 10 different groups of sophomores. In
practically every group one or two students usually questioned and contra-
dicted hoth my own eye-witness account, and the accounts found in current rele-
vant literature, of the purges, "corrective lahor-camps," stakhanovism, and other
practices of the Communist regimes in the iron-curtain countries.
   This was to be expected, it was part of the plan that discussion should de-
velop in class.   It was more surprising, however, that as often as not these
contradictors quoted Professor Struik as their source and authority. As far
as I knew. Professor Struik was employed to teach mathematics, not political
sicence or any interpretation of current events. Nevertheless, in the much
ahused name of "academic freedom," I accepted the challenge and did my best
to elucidate the problems in the minds of my students, which often were in-
fluenced in a contrary direction.   *   *  *


   History alone will show how many of Professor Struik's students
were led by him down the road to communism, from which they were
unable to return until they had performed acts against their country
and fellow citizens. The administrators of the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology share equally, if not more so, the responsibility
for leading these young people away from American ideals and demo-
cratic principles.
  Dr. Struik was identified as a Communist teacher of violent over-
throw of government in the testimony of Philbrick in 1949 during the
Foley Square trial of the 11 top Communist leaders. Nevertheless,
he was permitted to teach at the Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy until this year when he was indicted by a Massachusetts grand
jury for advocating the violent overthrow of the Government of
Massachusetts.
  Following the indictment of Professor Struik by a Massachusetts
grand jury, we find Prof. Kirtley F. Mather, who exerts an influence
over thousands of students at Harvard University, addressing the
following letter to 30 ministers of the gospel in eastern Massachusetts          :
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       17

                              155   Homer   Street,   Newton Center,   Mass.,
                                                              November    9, 1951.
  Dear Friend I know that
                   :
                               you, like all other lovers of freedom and true dem-
ocracy, must be very much      interested in the forthcoming trial of our fellow
citizens here in Middlesex County who have been indicted under the Massachu-
setts Anti-Anarchy Act.    It has come to my attention that Professor Struik is
willing to give some time to the very desirable effort of getting better acquainted
with the people of our State and having people discover just what sort of person
he really    is.
  I therefore,  am wondering whether there might not be some opportunity in
your church or personal activities for him to meet you and your friends in an
entirely informal way.    Perhaps he could be invited to attend some gathering
at which you will be present and where he could meet some of the people of
your community and chat with them. Please communicate with Mrs. Janet
Faxon, 4S0 Center Street, Jamaica Plain, Telephone JAmaica 2-3416.
   This is not a suggestion that he be invited to speak at a meeting of any or-
ganization, although I am sure he would be glad to do that, were he so requested.
It is rather my thought that there might be an opportunity for your community
to make his acquaintance in an informal, shall we say, social manner.
       Faithfully yours,
                                                  (Signed) Kirtley F. Mather.
                                                                            MML
  With  individuals like Professors Struik and Mather teaching in
our leading universities, your committee wonders who the Professor
Struiks were at Harvard who led Alger Hiss along the road of com-
munism   until he committed espionage against his country.      were    Who
the Professor Struiks at Columbia who led Elizabeth Bentley into
her eventual role as a courier in the Soviet espionage apparatus?
Who were the Professor Struiks responsibe for leading the Rosen-
bergs, Hiskey, Gold, and others into their espionage roles?
  The committee has read newspaper accounts of the concern voiced
by leading universities over football and their plans to deemphasize
the sport. When will our colleges
                                    display the same concern over the
activities of Professor Struik and his kind and deemphasize
Marxism ?

American Committee To Survey Trade Union Conditions in Europe
  Your committee, during     the past session of Congress, in connection
with   itsdefense area investigations, came upon the activities of the
American Committee to Survey Trade Union Conditions in Europe.
This organization was created by the Communist Party for the pur-
pose of supplying Communists or Communist-disciplined trade-
unionists transportation into the Soviet Union and its satellite coun-
tries to propagandize against the United States and in behalf of the
Soviet Union. During the investigation, the identity of over 30
American trade-unionists from our leading industrial areas was
learned.   In all of these cases, according to your committee's investi-
gation, the individuals failed, in applying for their passports, to state
the true nature of their travel or to identify the countries to which
they were destined.
   The Passport Division of the State Department, under its able
director, Mrs. Ruth B. Shipley, and its assistant director, Ashley
J.   Nicholas,   offered   the    committee its full and complete
cooperation. However, in supplying the committee with all infor-
mation in its possession, the Passport Division requested that no action
be taken in this matter for the reason that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation had information that the American Committee to Sur-
18    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

vey Trade Union Conditions in Europe was preparing to send another
delegation behind the iron curtain. It was the feeling of the Govern-
ment agencies that public exposure of the organization would elim-
inate any chance for Government prosecution.     Your committee, even
though it had devoted considerable time to this matter, strongly felt
that it would be contrary to public interest to hold hearings and
thereby interfere with a possible prosecution. As pointed out by the
State Department, no prosecution of the original passport applicants
was possible because the Government could not prove that the appli-
cants intended to travel behind the iron curtain prior to the time they
applied for passports.
  Your committee has determined in this matter, as in the case of
the American youth who attended the Communist-sponsored World
Youth Festival which was held in the Soviet zone of Berlin in August
1951, that Congress should give immediate attention to amending
our passport laws to eliminate the loopholes through which the Com-
munists jump to obtain passports for their purposes and, by so doing,
violate the intentions of Congress without fear of prosecution. The
Congress attempted to plug the loopholes by providing in the Wood-
McCarran Act, Public Law 831, of the Eighty-first Congress, a pro-
hibition against the issuance of passports- to members of a Commu-
nist-action organization. The Board, however, created by the law,
has yet to find any organization, even the Communist Party itself, to
be a Communist-action organization and, therefore, the passport pro-
vision is not in operation at this time. With the Passport Division
issuing over 300,000 new passports or passport renewals yearly, it is
impossible to obtain security clearance on the applicants prior to the
issuance of the passports.

                              Jack Kawano

  During the year 1951 the committee was fortunate in being able to
hear the testimony of Jack Kawano of Honolulu, Hawaii. Mr.
Kawano had been one of the first members of the Communist Party
in the Territory of Hawaii.     He was also one of the foremost labor
organizers in the Territory of Hawaii. Jack Kawano commanded
quite a following among workers in the Territory of Hawaii as a result
of his long fight for the recognition of their rights. He testified that
he had joined the Communist Party in 1938 in the Territory of Hawaii.
He remained   in the   Communist Party until early in 1950. During his
membership    in the   Communist Party, Kawano testified that he was
also a high-ranking official in the International Longshoremen's and
Warehousemen's Union     in Hawaii. Kawano testified that the major-
ity of the   ILWU      down through   the years has been Communist-
dominated.
  Kawano was a witness before a subcommittee of the Committee on
Un-American Activities during its hearings in Honolulu in April of
1950. He stated he was not a Communist at that time, but declined to
answer any other questions with respect to Communist Party member-
ship or activities. Mr. Kawano was subsequently indicted for con-
tempt of Congress, along with 38 other defendants. These defend-
ants were subsequently found not guilty by the Federal court in
Honolulu.
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES             19

  Kawano's testimony in 1951 was predicated, according to Mr.
Kawano, on a sincere desire after long deliberation to tell his story
about communism in Hawaii and in the ILWU as he had lived and
known it.
  Mr. Kawano's testimony corroborated information already dis-
closed by the committee in its hearings of 1950 and added much
weight to this information because of the prominent position Mr.
Kawano had occupied in Honolulu with respect to the ILWU for so
many   years.
  In addition to the corroborative aspect of Mr. Kawano's testimony,
he provided the committee and the Congress with additional infor-
mation regarding communism in Hawaii heretofore undisclosed. Mr.
Kawano has performed a great service, not only to his community,
but to the Nation as well, in so authoritatively revealing manip-
ulations of the Communist Party in Honolulu, particularly with ref-
erence to their control of the largest labor union in that Territory.

                       Oliver   Edmund Clubb
  Oliver Edmund Clubb, State Department Foreign Service officer,
was summoned to testify before your committee on three occasions
in 1951.  His appearances before the committee were an outgrowth
of a continuing investigation conducted by the committee staff on the
basis of information supplied by Whittaker Chambers, confessed
former Soviet espionage agent.
  Mr. Chambers had advised the committee that a member of the
State Department's consular service in China had called at the office
of the Communist magazine, New Masses, in the summer of 1932.
Mr. Chambers said the individual had asked to see Walt Cannon,
whom Mr. Chambers had just succeeded as editor of the publication.
In Mr. Cannon's absence, the individual saw Mr. Chambers. Mr.
Chambers recalled the name of the State Department officer as being
"Chubb."
  The committee first subpenaed Oliver Edmund Clubb to appear
before an executive session of the committee on March 14, 1951. Mr.
Clubb had been a Foreign Service officer for the State Department for
23 years, approximately 18 of which involved assignments in China.
He was recalled from China in 1950 and appointed director of the
Office of Chinese Affairs, State Department, Washington       —  a post
which he held at the time of his executive testimony.
  In the course of this testimony, Mr. Clubb stated that he had been
vice consul at Hankow, China, in 1932 and in the same year had re-
turned to the United States on vacation leave. He could not recall
Whittaker Chambers, however, or having any association whatever
with the magazine, New Masses.
   On July 12, 1951, the State Department announced that Oliver
Edmund Clubb had been suspended pending a loyalty investigation
and hearing.
  Five days later, Mr. Clubb addressed a letter to the committee advis-
ing that he had obtained from Peiping, China, his personal diaries
for the year 1932 and that an entry of July 9, 1932, recorded a meeting
between himself and Whittaker Chambers in the New Masses office
in New York. The committee subpenaed Mr. Clubb and his diaries
for a public hearing on August 20, 1951.
20    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   The following extract from Mr. Clubb's diaries was read into the
record of the hearing   :




   The most interesting meeting thus far was that with the New Masses. Their
so-called revolutionary organ is a horrible rag, but Agnes had given me a
letter of introduction to Walt Carmon and so I went to see.  It was a ramshackle
place to which one went by a rambling, rickety staircase. There were many
Masses cartoons on the walls. A charming Jewess, typing, who acted as secre-
tary.   She introduced me to Michael Gold as "Comrade Clubb," and I talked
to him a while while waiting.    He spoke of revolution but had no "hopes" of it
for the United States at the present, bemoaning the lack of organizers when the
field is prepared and the crops so ripe for the harvest.    He asked of China,
and then the successor to AValt Carmon, one Whittaker Chambers, a shifty-
eyed, unkempt creature, who nevertheless showed considerable force and direc-
tion, asked me about the Red movement in China.         In turn I asked him of
conditions in the United States, but we didn't talk smoothly. I was, after all,
out of my bailiwick, masquerading almost under false pretenses, so that I felt
too much like a stranger to show the proper "revolutionary enthusiasm."

   Despite the aid of the diaries, Mr. Clubb maintained at this second
hearing that he still had no independent recollection of the New
Masses visit. He denied that he deserved the appellation "Comrade
Club." He surmised he had visited New Masses out of a desire to learn
about conditions in the United States during his infrequent "home
leaves." Yet, he admitted he had known New Masses to be a Com-
munist magazine since his college days.
   The Foreign Service officer named the late Agnes Smedley as the
author of his letter of introduction to Walt Carmon of New Masses.
Agnes Smedley has been identified before the committee as an inter-
national Communist agent who, at the very time she furnished Mr.
Clubb with letters of introduction, was actively working with the
notorious Sorge espionage ring in China.
   Mr. Clubb's diaries noted that he had twice sought out Miss Smed-
ley in Shanghai in May 1932, prior to leaving for the United States,
and "got from her [Smedley] letters of introduction to many inter-
esting people in New York." Mr. Clubb, under questioning, explained
he had received five such letters from Miss Smedley. He admitted also
that he had had a number of other contacts with Miss Smedley, which
he said were either social in nature or for the purpose of obtaining
information on the Chinese Communist revolutionary movement. He
also admitted that he knew at the time that Miss Smedley was "very
sympathetic" to the Chinese Communists.
   At the time of his New Masses visit, Mr. Clubb deliveied other let-
ters of introduction in New York. His diaries, however, labeled his
New York trip "singularly unsuccessful" because "the chief of those
                                              —
I wanted to see have been out of town Villard, Lovett, Chappell,
Sanger." Letters to Oswald Garrison Villard and Eobert Morss
Lovett were among those supplied to Mr. Clubb by Agnes Smedley.
A letter to Winifred Chappell had been furnished by a missionary
 friend of Mr. Clubb's in China, one Joseph Bailey. Committee files
reflect that Mr. Villard and Miss Chappell each have a record of ap-
proximately 20 Communist-front affiliations, while Eobert Morss
Lovett's Communist-front associations total more than 70.
    The diaries further disclosed that Mr. Clubb sought out Lawrence
 Todd of Tass News Agency in the city of Washington during his
 1932 vacation. Mr. Todd was brother to Oliver J. Todd, hydraulic
 engineer in China and close friend of Mr. Clubb. Lawrence Todd
 dined with Mr. Clubb on July 5, 1932, and on the following day took
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES            21

Mr. Clubb to see one Skvirsky, head of the Soviet Information Bureau
in Washington, who questioned him about sovietized sections of China,
and discussed recognition of the U. S. S. R. by the United States.
Mr. Todd also conducted the State Department officer to the press
room of the State Department, where Mr. Clubb met columnist Drew
Pearson. Mr. Clubb subsequently dined at the hitter's home, in the
company of Lawrence Duggan and Frank P. Lockhart, both since
deceased. Mr. Clubb again professed to have no recollection of these
associations.
  In this connection, it should be noted that Whittaker Chambers
identified Mr. Duggan as having been a member of the pro-Soviet
bloc in the State Department.    Drew Pearson, avowedly an intimate
friend of Mr. Duggan, has stated publi ly that he knew Mr. Duggan
to have attended Communist meetings in Alexandria, Va., in the year
1932, while employed by the State Department.     In the late 1930's,
however, Mr. Duggan rejected efforts of Soviet agents Hede Massing
and Boris Bykov to draw him into an espionage apparatus within
the United States Government, according to a report he made 10
years afterward to the FBI.
   The committee hearing on August 20, 1951, brought to light con-
tacts in China between Mr. Clubb and Frank Glass and Harold Isaacs.
Committee hearings on the operations of the Sorge espionage ring in
China in the early 1930's had disclosed that Frank Glass and Harold
Isaacs were associates of the Comintern agent Agnes Smedley during
that period. Mr. Glass was identified as a British Communist, and
Harold Isaacs as editor of the China Forum, an English-language
Communist   periodical.
  Mr. Clubb admitted under questioning that he had shared his apart-
ment in Hankow, China, with Mr. Glass and Mr. Isaacs when the
two men arrived in that town in 1931 during a period of flood. Mr.
Clubb also said .that, following their departure, he had continued
to correspond with both men until approximately 1934.
   One of Mr. Clubb's colleagues in Chungking, China, according
to his testimony, was Solomon Adler, a Treasury Department attache.
Mr. Adler was a member of the "Silvermaster" espionage group which
operated within United States Government agencies during World
War   II, according to the testimony of Elizabeth T. Bentley, con-
fessed former courier for the spy group. Mr. Clubb also knew Philip
Jaffe in China.   Mr. Jaffe, as an editor of the pro-Communist maga-
zine Amerasia in 1945, was fined $2,500 in a case involving the chan-
neling of classified Government information to the magazine.
  Mr. Clubb admitted associations with millionaire Communist Fred-
erick Vanderbilt Field, but insisted he could not remember the circum-
stances.  At a third hearing before the committee on August 23, 1951,
Mr. Clubb was shown photostatic copies of what appeared to be a
letter introducing him to Frederick Field, and another letter ad-
dressed to Field by Clubb himself. The letter of introduction, dated
January   22, 1937, was signed by Karl August Wittfogel, who has
admitted membership in the Communist Party of Germany from
1920 to 1933. Mr. Clubb's letter to Mr. Field, dated March 24, 1937,
promised that the Foreign Service officer would visit Mr. Field shortly
and '"should very much enjoy seeing and talking with you again."
The letters failed to stir any recollection on the part of Mr. Clubb.
22   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Mr. Clubb's   diaries, previously referred to in this section,   have not
as yet been fully reviewed by the committee although they were
subpenaed at the time of Clubb's appearance before the committee in
open session. They have not been so reveiwed for the reason that,
at the time of Clubb's appearance, the diaries were in the possession
of the Loyalty Board of the Department of State which was consid-
ering charges relating to acts of indiscretion and questions of loyalty
on the part of Mr. Clubb. With the full consent of Mr. Clubb, the
State Department has agreed to produce these diaries as soon as the
Department's   Loyalty Board has completed its deliberation in the
Clubb matter.
  The committee, irrespective of the decision which the Department
of State's Loyalty Board reaches in this matter, will recall Mr. Clubb
before it in open session after it has had an opportunity to study and
analyze the diary entries.

  Complicity of American Communists in the Destruction or
                      Freedom in the Far East
  At various times during the years of 1949 and 1950, the Committee
on Un-American Activities was engaged in the investigation of certain
facts in its possession which indicated that several American citizens
were involved in the Richard Sorge spy case. During the past year,
the Committee on Un-American Activities was able to reveal through
public testimony some of the results of its lengthy investigation deal-
ing primarily with the Richard Sorge case, but which led to a far-
reaching and quite revealing story of international communism, with
particular reference to China.
  These revelations were made possible through the testimony of
Maj. Gen. Charles A. Willoughby and Mitsusada Yoshikawa, in con-
junction with the investigations that had been conducted by the Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities. Prior to this testimony, the com-
mittee had had in its possession for many months numerous files deal-
ing with the Richard Sorge case and communism in the Far East.
The files had been written in Japanese but had been translated into
English. These files revealed the entire picture of the arrest, interro-
gation, statements, and trial of Richard Sorge, and other members of
his ring whom the Japanese police had arrested during the months of
October and November 1941. Richard Sorge and his fellow conspira-
tors were tried, convicted, and sentenced to death or long prison terms
by the Japanese Government during the years of 1942 and 1943.
  The Committee on Un-American Activities was fortunate in being
able to subpena Mitsusada Yoshikawa for appearance before it on
August 9, 1951. He is presently Chief of the Special Investigations
Bureau of the Attorney General's office in Tokyo. The files, which
the committee had in its possession, had indicated that Mr. Yoshi-
kawa was one of the Japanese procurators assigned to the investiga-
tion of the Richard Sorge case and one of his specific assignments had
been to conduct the lengthy interrogations of Richard Sorge. Mr.
Yoshikawa testified this was one of his assignments during the investi-
gation and that he had as late as 1949 executed affidavits attesting the
authenticity of the documents now in the possession of the committee,
and which relate to the investigation of Sorge and his companions.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES              23

These   affidavits were placed into the committee record during the
testimony   of Mr. Yoshikawa.
   The testimony of Mr. Yoshikawa provided an excellent means for
the authentication of many of the files and documents relating to
Richard Sorge, which were in the possession of the committee at the
time of the public hearings.
   Maj. Gen. Charles A. Willoughby, who served from 1939 to 1951
as Gen. Douglas MacArthurs Chief of Intelligence in the Far East,
testified before the Committee on Un-American Activities on August
22 and 23. General Willoughby's testimony was documented in part
by some of the files which the committee already had in its possession,
and further by files which were obtained after the occupation of Japan.
Much of the information contained in these files had been verified
through the further investigation by General Willoughby and his
staff in the Far East Command.       General Willoughby's testimony
revealed a fascinating example of international communism, cover-
ing a period of 22 years, culminating in the seizure of power by the
Chinese Communists in Peking, China, on September 21, 1949. Also,
there was revealed during the course of General Willoughby's testi-
mony the identification of many "old wheel horses'' of the American
Communist Party, who had played a nefarious part in the ultimate
Communist conquest of China. These Communist Party work horses
were identified as Earl Browder, Eugene Dennis, Sam Darcy, Harry
Berger, Gerhart Eisler, and James H. Dolsen. It is interesting to
note that most of these same "old wheel horses'' are still engaged
in the furtherance of international communism in the United States,
and are dedicated to the violent overthrow of our democracy. With
respect to the internationally known Communist, Gerhart Eisler, it
will be remembered that after working for years in the United States
as a top Communist agent he unlawfully fled our country while under
$20,000 bond furnished by the Civil Rights Congress. Shortly after
his arrival in East Germany, he was appointed by Moscow to be
Propaganda Minister in the Communist-controlled government of
East Germany.
  Even more interesting was   the identification of American citizens
who had contributed greatly   to the cause of world communism and
until this time had gone undisclosed.    This list of traitors to the
United States and the rest of the free world reads as follows Agnes
                                                                :




Smedley, Miyagi Yotoku, Willie Lehman, Albert Edward Stewart,
Margaret Undjus, Katherine Harrison (first wife of Earl Browder),
Reh Bennett,      Lilliestrom, Leon Minster, Juclea Codkincl, Lang-
ston Hughes, Walt Carmon, Fred Ellis, and others who for the time
being must remain undisclosed. The list set forth above is not by any
means complete.
   In many cases, these Americans were actually involved in one or
more espionage groups, whereas in other cases they were involved in
Communist-propaganda programs stemming from either publications
or organizations which were created and fostered by the Comintern in
Moscow. In addition, there were revealed in the testimony of Gen-
eral Willoughby several Christian names of individuals with no fur-
ther identification— such as "Paul," "Jacob," "Jim," "Alex," "John,"
and "Charlie." Though lending an air of mystery to this already
mysterious story, it is indeed regretful that the true identity of these
24   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

individuals who were actively engaged in Soviet espionage has never
been established even after extensive investigation by Japanese and
American authorities.
  The Committee on Un-American Activities is currently engaged in
investigations of individuals and organizations
                                                that the committee
has reason to believe may have been alined with international com-
munism in this country as well as abroad. There are many such
leads contained in the files which were turned over to the Committee
on Un-American Activities by General Willoughby, in response to a
subpena served upon him when it was learned that he was to return to
the United States.
  There will be forthcoming within the next year additional hearings
which will have been developed from the information contained in
these files, but which has not as yet been made public.
  It is a sad commentary when American citizens abuse the privilege
of travel that is afforded them, to work actively for the furtherance
of a foreign ideology dedicated to the overthrow of the Government
that affords them such privileges. Likewise, it is extremely regret-
table that employees of our Government will misuse the trust placed
in them, as was the case in two instances developed through the testi-
mony of General Willoughby that is, the use of the American con-
                               ;


sulate in Harbin, China, for the transmission of Soviet espionage re-
ports, and the instance of an American consulate employee
                                                              in Shang-
hai in supplying Richard Sorge with confidential and secret
information.
   For a revealing and interesting example of international commu-
nism, and the patience and effort it displays, every American is urged
to read the full text of the testimony of Mr. Yoshikawa and General
Willoughby. Contained in this testimony is a prime example of the
true composition of the Russian Communists. At a time when Russia
was reaping huge benefits from our lend-lease program, which was
responsible for stemming the tide of Nazi aggression within her bor-
ders, Russia saw fit to withhold information from the United States
which might have prevented the loss of thousands -of American lives,
as well as millions of dollars worth of military equipment. To be
specific, the hearing developed that Richard Sorge advised Moscow,
as early as August of 1941, and again in October of 1941, that there
 would be no war with Russia on the part of Japan, but that Japan
would move to the south and challenge America and England in the
 Philippines, Singapore, the Malay States, and Sumatra.
   The hearing also shows conclusively the bridge between what some
people might call water over the dam and current Communist
treachery. Here is presented an example of international Communist
treachery conceived in 1928 and maturing in 1949, with many of the
individuals who helped bring about such an event actively engaged in
 the same pursuits today, only more frightening because it is within the
 boundaries of our own United States.

                     Files and Reference Service
   The committee's files contain a wealth of specialized material,
maintained to aid the members of the committee and its staff in the
investigation of un-American activities and the making of recom-
mendations for the control of such activities in this country. These
files also serve as a basis for furnishing information on the
                                                              subject to
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES           25

the    Members of Congress. This invaluable  collection of source mate-
rial has been assembled since 1938 and covers an even longer period
of time. Its size and scope was set forth in some detail in the 1950
annual report of the Committee on Un-Ameriean Activities so no
recapitulation will be made here. However, the collection has con-
tinued to grow during 1951 by the careful selection and incorporation
of material both new and old.
  In 1951 we added 225 books and pamphlets, many of which were
written and published to further the Communist cause in the United
States; 684 issues of newspapers and other periodicals issued by the
Communist Party, its front organizations and others; an uncounted
number of the letterheads, programs, leaflets, and other literature of
organizations whose true purpose cannot be called American; clip-
pings by the thousands; the 2,023 pages of testimony given by wit-
nesses in public hearings before the committee; and the 530 pages
of reports published by the committee during the year.
  The maintenance of such a collection requires special care. Not
only must the very old material be carefully preserved but it must
be kept as readily available as the more recent for constant consul-
tation. Each piece of new material must be properly classified and
cross-referenced, indexed, or cataloged so that it may be located easily
for use in connection with any person, group, or subject on which it
may furnish information.
  From 50,000 to 60,000 index-card references to the above-named
sources have been made and added to file in 1951. Moreover, consoli-
dation of the three published individual-name indexes to public hear-
ings and reports of the committee for the years 1938-41, 1942-47, and
1948-49, respectively, has been almost completed and brought up to
date. It is planned that this consolidated index to all the public doc-
uments issued by the committee from 1938 through 1950 will be
published soon and will be revised periodically to provide a true
cumulative index.
   The general interest in this country in the work of the Committee
on Un-American Activities and the need for more authoritative in-
formation on the subject have been reflected in the number and types
of inquiries received by the committee from the Members of Congress
for information from the files. Although the number of inquiries
has increased during this year, and the committee has found it nec-
essary to prohibit employees of Congress from coming in to make
their own checks for information, the files' staff has been able to
meet the demands and furnish answers within a reasonable amount
of time.
   In cases where the type of information requested or material avail-
able did not require a written report, a verbal answer was made to
the inquiries, but the greater number of replies were in the form of
written reports from the files of the committee.
   These reports were compiled by the file section of the committee
staff, setting forth whatever information was found to appear on a-
given individual or organization in the committee's public hearings,
published reports and files of source material. They also showed
source of the information reported, and included the official citation
by the Committee on Un-American Activities and/or the Attorney
Generals of the United States on each organization referred to in
the report.
26   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Eequests from the staff members of the committee were similarly
answered, and in many cases were accompanied by the actual loan of
the material upon which the report was based. The total number of
inquiries received from these sources in 1951 amounted to about 3,300
and involved a check and answer on approximately 7,600 individuals
and 2,000 organizations.
   The loyalty and security programs of the Federal Government have
resulted in ever-increasing demands being made upon the files of the
committee by the executive as well as the legislative branch. In the
President's Executive Order 9835, of March 21, 1947, the files of this
committee were listed as one of the sources of information which must
be checked in determining the loyalty of Government employees and
applicants for Government employment. Properly accredited agents
and record searches of almost every executive department and inde-
pendent agency, as listed in the United States Government Organiza-
tion Manual for 1950-51, have visited the file section of the committee
at some time during the year. They have consulted all indexes to the
publications and files and have requested the withdrawal from files of
all material found pertinent to cases under consideration.         It has
become necessary to assign one full-time clerk to assist in answering
their questions and to withdraw and return the material to files. Over
6,300 visits by Government agents in 1951, as compared with 3,600 in
1950, have been recorded. The length of visits varied, but, since a
small amount of additional space was obtained during the year to aid
in accommodating these agents, a greater number of them have been
assigned to spend full time at this office.
   It is estimated that they have checked three-quarters of a million
names through our indexes this year and have consulted an average of
well over a hundred pieces of file material daily.
   Statistics alone cannot show the total value of service provided. So,
in conclusion, it should be emphasized that during the year 1951 valu-
able source material was acquired and incorporated in the files, and
a larger volume of reference service than in any previous year was
provided by the files' staff to Members of Congress, the various agen-
cies of the executive branch of the Government, and other members
of the committee staff.

                             Publications

  According to testimony of many witnesses who have appeared be-
fore the Committee on Un-American Activities, one of the most
effective ways to combat the growth of communism in our country is
by educating the public as to the aims and methods of the Communist
Party and the results of Communist ideology where it has gained
control.
   Since the hearing room of the committee, located on the second
floor of theOld House Office Building, is quite small, comparatively
few people are able to get the benefit of personally attending com-
mittee hearings. After completion of a series or phase of these hear-
ings, the actual verbatim records of proceedings are printed and
are available for distribution upon request as long as the supply
lasts.  Thus, several thousand persons have the opportunity of know-
ing exactly what took place during the extensive hearings of the
committee without having to be present.
   In many cases, letters requesting printed copies of these hearings
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                               27

indicate that they are to be used by church, labor, veteran, civic,
patriotic, educational, and other groups who are intelligently fighting
communism and subversive activities. Distribution of committee
pamphlets to organizations adds greatly to their actual circulation,
since they are read by many individuals.
  Other than the printed copies of hearings, reports are issued from
time to time by the committee. These reports are compiled from
facts obtained in sworn testimony of witnesses and from long and
careful research into the publications and public statements of officers
of organizations which have been found to be either in the Communist
orbit or under Communist influence.
  Organizations described as Communist fronts in reports of the
committee are those which the committee has found to have been
created or captured by the Communists to do the party's work in
special fields.  The Communist front is the greatest weapon of com-
munism in the country today because subterfuge often makes it diffi-
cult to recognize its true Communist nature.    The Communist front
does not hesitate to camouflage its true purposes behind such moral
and human appeals as "peace" and "civil rights" when it serves the
Communist purpose and the aims of the Soviet Union. Neither does
the Communist front deviate from the "line" of the Communist
Party.
  During the year 1951, the committee printed approximately 703,840
copies of its hearings and reports. Of this number, the limited staff
of the committee has filled requests for over 415,000 copies. 1
  The following are examples of the many thousands of letters
received weekly by the committee                 :




                                                             St.   Marys Seminary,
                                               Baltimore, Md., January 24, 1952.
  Dear Mr. Carrington2 Thank you very much for sending me the Shameful
                                  :


Years which arrived today. And for that very generous shipment earlier of
those hundreds of copies of 100 Things You Should Know * * *. These
latter have been liberally spread among our students here and serve as an
excellent easy introduction to the work your committee has been doing through
the years.




     *******
  How do I go about getting more copies of the Shameful Years? It is a fine
compendium of what must literally be hundreds of pages of testimony and hours
of examination.
mittee publication, I shall greatly appreciate.



  Dear  Sirs *:
                  *
                   Whatever you are able to do with regard to this latest com-



                     *
                                        Torrington, Conn., December 14, 1951.
                        I have been requested by members of the local to secure




     *******
enough copies of the pamphlet 100 Things You Should Know About Communism,
to distribute amongst the 130 men in our bargaining unit.
other publications that you feel will help us combat this subversive organization
we would be happy to have them. Thank you.


  Gentlemen       :




copies of 100 Things
                      *   *   *   We
                                                       Trenton, N. J., January 16, 1952.
                                       are interested in obtaining information on quantity
                              You Should Know About Communism
                                                                If there are any




                                                                       *   *   *.
  We   intend to offer this material in conjunction with an anticommunistic
television program broadcast each week over station WATV, Newark, N. J.
The pamphlets will be displayed on the program and copies offered free to any
viewer sending in a request.

  *
    In addition to these, the committee has also distributed thousands of copies of publica-
tions printed in previous years, as well as documents released by other congressional
committees and Government agencies.
  2
    Clerk of the committee.
28       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Publications of the Committee on Un-American Activities for the Year 1951

Statement on the March of Treason
Report on the Communist Peace Offensive (House Report 378), April 28, 1951
100 Things You Should Know About Communism Series, including Spotlight on
  Spies (House Document 136, May 14, 1951)
Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications (Committee Prini, March
  3, 1951) (House Document 137, May 14, 1951)
Hearings Regarding Communist Activities in the Territory of Hawaii, Part 4
  (Testimony of Jack Kawano)
Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry, Part 1, March 8
  and 21 April 10, 11, 12, and 13, 1951
              ;



Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry, Part 2, April 17,
  23, 24, 25      ;    May and 18, 1951
                             16, 17,
Communist                     Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry, Part 3, May 22,
                      Infiltration of
  23, 24, 25 June 25 and 26, 1951
                  ;


Hearings Relating to Communist Activities in the Defense Area of Baltimore,
  Part 1 (based on testimony of Mary Stalcup Markward), June 19, 20, 21, 26,
  27, 28 July 11 and 13, 1951
          ;


Hearings Relating to Communist Activities in the Defense Area of Baltimore,
  Part 2, (Maryland Committee for Peace and Baltimore County Committee for
  Peace), June 28; July 10 and 21, 1951
Hearings Relating to Communist Activities in the Defense Area of Baltimore,
  Part 3, June 19, 20, 26, 27, 28 July 10, 12, and 13, 1951
                                            ;



Expose of Communist Activities in the State of Massachusetts (based on the
  Testimony of Herbert A. Philbrick) July 23 and 24 October 10 and 11, 1951
                                                     ,       ;


Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry, Part 4, Septem-
  ber 17, 18, and 19, 1951
Communist Infiltration of Hollywood Motion-Picture Industry, Part 5, September
  20, 21, 24, and 25, 1951
Hearings on American Aspects of the Richard Sorge Spy Case (based on testi-
  mony of Mitsusada Yoshikawa and Maj. Gen. Charles A. Willoughby) August
  9, 22, and 23, 1951
Communist Tactics Among Veterans' Groups (testimony of John T. Pace), July
  13,   1951
Hearings Regarding Communist Activities Anions; Farm Groups, February 28 and
  March 9, 1951
The Shamefnl Years, Thirty Years of Soviet Espionage in the United States
  (released as Committee Print December 30, 1951; House Report No. 1229,
  January         8,   1952)

                                        Recommendations
  The committee feels that, in line with the findings on Soviet espi-
onage in the United States as reflected in the committee report, "The
Shameful Years," it is necessary that positive steps be taken to stem
Soviet espionage.                  Congress must take the initial steps
                                 It is felt that
to ascertain           what     necessary to afford adequate protection
                               legislation      is

against espionage. In the course of such congressional study, it would
be necessary to ascertain whether the existing laws relating to espi-
onage have been properly enforced and, if not, proper responsibility
                                                         ;

should be affixed.
  The committee suggests that among the phases Congress should con-
sider in strengthening espionage legislation are                 :


   (a) A single comprehensive espionage statute applicable to hoth
                                        —
peacetime and wartime. This should incorporate the present provi-
sions of wartime espionage statutes,
                                       carrying a capital-punishment
sentence. The statute of limitations would not then
                                                         apply in espi-
onage any more than it applies to other crimes carrying a capital
punishment. The provisions of legislation dealing with the unauthor-
ized taking of classified Government papers and documents should be
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                  29

broadened to include the transportation of such papers and documents
in interstate or foreign commerce.
   (b) The broadening of the rules of admissibility of
                                                        evidence. The—
committee is also aware that the executive branch of the Government
is seriously being hampered in the prosecution of persons engaged
                                                                      in
           because  of the         limitations on evidence that may   be
espionage                  present
                                                        the restrictions
presented in the courts. The committee realizes that
against  the admissibility of evidence secured from wire tapping has
been imposed to protect the rights of the individual. The committee,
while desiring to maintain all of the rights of the individual, feels
that the rights of the individual can be preserved only if the national
security remains.     It is the committee's opinion that, if Soviet espion-
age continues unchecked, the rights of American citizens
                                                                  are being
         in                   than would  be the  case with  legalized wire
placed      graver danger
                                                    that Congress consider
tapping. The committee suggests, therefore,
                                                                 in matters
legislation to permit as evidence the results of wire tapping
affecting the national security as
                                      well as in such crimes as kidnaping
and extortion. In order that a proper control might be exercised, it is
felt that, as in the matter of arrests, searches, and seizures, the judicial
branch of the Government should be empowered to authorize the use
of such techniques.
                                                                 execu-
   (c) Immunity for witnesses appearing before congressional,
tive, or judicial hearings.
                            —The committee also feels that, since it is
essential to any investigation, whether it be congressional, executive,
or judicial, to have the testimony of competent and informed wit-
nesses, legislation should be enacted to effect a greater
                                                            latitude in
granting immunity from prosecution to these witnesses.
   The committee has frequently experienced instances where wit-
nesses while having information of undoubted value to the work of
the committee, have refused to answer questions on the basis that to do
so might tend to incriminate them. If such legislation as suggested
by the committee were enacted, it would, while maintaining the rights
of the individual, permit the proper investigative bodies to gather a
true and comprehensive picture of the information they seek.
   (d) Reciprocal restrictions on travel by Soviet and
                                                               satellite
           —
diplomats. The committee's investigations have also disclosed that
Soviet espionage has been assisted by the fact that Soviet nationals
have been given unlimited freedom to travel throughout the United
States and to and from Canada and Mexico. The committee's reports
dealing with Soviet espionage clearly show that Soviet officials have
abused this freedom to actively engage in espionage operations. This
situation exists even though United States diplomats in Russia and
her satellites are virtually under house arrest and under constant
surveillance by the Russian secret police. There have been instances
in which United States officials have been prohibited from contact
with American nationals who were being held by authorities in Soviet
countries.
  For these reasons, the committee feels that there should be reciprocal
restrictions enforced by this country with the Soviet and satellite
countries.
  The committee also feels that, in order to afford a greater national
security, foreign nationals entering the United States should be re-
quired to surrender their passports and/or visas at the point of entry
30    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

and that these papers should not be returned until the departure of the
individual from the United States.
  (e) Issuance of passports.
                               —The committee recommends that all
persons securing passports must, at the time the passport application
is executed, state under oath whether they will or will not visit any of
the presently so-called iron-curtain countries.
   The committee also recommends that if, in the course of travel
abroad, any person holding a passport finds it necessary to visit an
iron-curtain country, and did not indicate that he intended to visit an
iron-curtain country on his original application, he must obtain au-
thority to make such a visit from either a consular officer of the United
States, the proper Ambassador, or a specified member of the consular
or ambassadorial staffs.
  A   similar provision, such as that set forth in paragraph 2 of this
section, should also be made applicable to all persons holding pass-
ports who desire to visit any other country exclusive of iron-curtain
countries and who have not indicated their intention to visit these
other countries on the original passport application.
  It is hoped that these provisions will prevent American Communists
from receiving instructions from abroad. It is a well-known fact that
American Communists often travel abroad for the purpose of re-
ceiving instructions from Communist functionaries, not only in the
iron-curtain countries but in other European countries as well.
   (/) Cancellation of passports.
                                   — The committee in the past has ex-
perienced several instances in which persons for whom subpenas have
been issued are found to be outside the United States and the subpenas
cannot be served upon them. The committee recognizes the fact that
a person might endeavor to use a prolonged absence from the country
as a means to evade appearance before this, as well as other congres-
sional committees.
  It is believed that in order to cope with such situations legislation
should be enacted to provide for the cancellation of the passports in
the possession of any United States citizen in a foreign country for
whom a subpena is outstanding within 6 months of the date upon
which he receives personal notification that such subpena is out-
standing. Notice would be made by an accredited official designated
by the United States Department of State.
                                                            —
   (g) Revocations of commissions in the armed services. The com-
mittee, during its hearings, has had the unfortunate experience of hav-
ing had before it witnesses, who, while holding commissions in the
armed services of the United States, have refused to affirm or deny al-
legations of membership in the Communist Party or Communist-front
organizations. The committee is aware that a commission in the
armed services of the United States is a privilege accorded to citizens
of the United States of unquestioned loyalty and not an inherent right
provided for in the Constitution. This being the case, the committee
recommends that in any instance where a person holding a commission
in the armed services chooses to refuse to answer questions concerning
his present or past membership in the Communist Party, such com-
mission shall be immediately revoked.

                                   o
