                                                       *Z:
                                     Union Calendar                         No. 1134
81st Congress, 2d Session         ------                        House Report No. 3249




                               ANNUAL REPORT
                                         OF THE


     COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                               for the Year           1950




      January   2,   1951.   — Committed to the Committee     of the   Whole House
              on the State of the Union and ordered to be -printed




                               Prepared and released by the
             COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                     U.   S.   HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES


                                     UNITED STATES
                               GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
                                   WASHINGTON 1951:
<z>Mt"




 Committee on Un-American Activities
       U. S.   House of Representatives




John   S.   Wood,      Georgia, Chairman
   Francis E. Walter, Pennsylvania
   Burr P. Harrison, Virginia
   John McSweeney, Ohio
   Morgan M. Moulder, Missouri
   Francis Case, South Dakota
   Harold H. Velde, Illinois
   Bernard W. Kearney, New York
   Donald L. Jackson, California



    Frank      S.   Tavenner,   Jr.,   Counsel
  Louis     J. Russell, Senior Investigator
John W. Carrington,        Clerk of Committee
Benjamin Mandel, Director              of Research




 ^33                 <T.   <//*/<//
                               CONTENTS
                                                                             Page
Facts behind committee investigations                                           1
Shipment of -atomic material to the Soviet Union                                5
Communism within the Government          —
    William W. Remington                                                        6
    Solomon Adler                                                               9
    Lee Pressman                                                               10
    Abraham George Silverman                                                   11
    Nathan Witt                                                               12
    Charles Kramer-'                                                          12
    John J. Abt
      1
                                                                              13
Expose of the Communist Party       of   western Pennsylvania                 13
Activities in the Cincinnati area                                             15
Communist Party of Hawaii                                       .             16
Hearings, regarding communism in the District of Columbia, part 2             20
National Lawyers Guild                                                        23
National Committee To Defeat the Mundt bill                                   24
Communist "peace petition" campaign                                           27
Legislative activity                                                          27
Conclusions                                                                   29
Contempt   citations                                                          30
In retrospect                                                                 31
     Harry Bridges                                                            31
    Eugene Dennis                                                             32
    Alger Hiss                                                           .
                                                                              32
    Hollywood Ten                                                             33
    Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee      Committee                                 33
    George Marshall                                                           34
    Richard Morford                                                           35
Distribution of publications                                                  35
Files of the committee                                                        40
                                                                    in
                                               Union Calendar No. 11 34
81st Congress             )     HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES                      j      Report
  2d Session              j                                                   (No.        3249




ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE TON UN-AMERI-
 CAN ACTIVITIES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FOR
 THE YEAR 1950


January     2,   1951.   — Committed      to the    Committee   of the   Whole House on the
                         State of the Union and ordered to be printed




Mr. Wood, from the Committee on Un-American                          Activities,   submitted
                                           the following


                                         REPORT
                              [Pursuant to Public   Law   601, 79th Cong.]


                  Facts Behind Committee Investigations
  The Committee on Un-American Activities, during the Eighty-first
Congress, took testimony from more witnesses and issued more reports
than during any other Congress in the history of the Special Commit-
tee on Un-American Activities or the permanent committee created
under the Legislative Reorganization Act of August 2, 1946. This
accomplishment, which is verifiable through the public records of the
committee, does not, however, demonstrate the detail and volume of
work in which the committee engaged.
     The   case of William Walter Remington,   who is presently on trial
in   New York    under an indictment for perjury in denying before a
Federal grand jury that he had ever been a member of the Communist
Party, was a case that the Committee on Un-American Activities re-
opened at the start of the Eighty-first Congress. It was resumed after
a clearance of Remington by the President's Loyalty Review Board
and a conclusion of hearings by a Senate committee. At the time the
Remington case was reopened, no investigative agency of the executive
or legislative branch of the Government had in its files any information
which would establish Remington's membership in the Communist
Party. There was available the testimony of Elizabeth T. Bentley
to the effect that Remington had acted as a Soviet espionage inform-
ant and that Remington was a member of the Communist Party.
However, the testimony of Bentley was uncorroborated by any other
witness or documentary evidence.
                                                                                      1
2    REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   Convinced that the testimony of Bentley was true and that
Remington was a member of the Communist Party, not only during
the time of his association with Bentley but even during the days of
his employment by the Tennessee Valley Authority, the committee
conducted a full investigation of Remington's past activities. Inves-
tigators were dispatched to Knoxville, Tenn.,
                                                    where an exhaustive
investigation   was  made  concerning Remington's employment by the
TVA. The identity of many members of the white-collar branch of
the Communist Party among TVA employees in Knoxville and
Norris was ascertained. Knowledge of Remington's participation
and association with these individuals was acquired. It was also
determined that Remington was closely associated with the successful
efforts of a left-wing union to oust a right-wing union as the bargaining
agent for TVA employees. However, nothing definite in the way
of evidence was revealed as to Remington's Communist Party mem-
bership.    The investigators returned to Washington, D. C., and
reviewed the files of the right-wing union which had formerly acted
as bargaining agent for the TVA employees.        These voluminous files
indicated that Remington was a member of this union and, during
his membership therein, received union literature at a post-office
box in Knoxville. With this lead and other minor information
obtained from the union files, the investigators again returned to
Knoxville, Tenn. A search of postal records relating to the post-
office box from which William Remington received union literature
disclosed the   names of four individuals.   The records of the Committee
on Un-American Activities indicated that at least three of these
individuals were known members of the Communist Party.          At the
same time, the identity of a one-time organizer for the Communist
Party in Knoxville was learned. Realizing that it was unlikely that
members of the Communist Party would permit a non-Communist
to share a post-office box, an all-out search by the committee's inves-
tigative staff was instituted to locate the persons identified in the
postal records, and the former Communist Party organizer. All
these persons, except the organizer, had been employees of the TVA,
and it was necessary to determine from TVA records where each
employee was born, where he was educated, where he worked prior
to TVA and his employment following TVA, and the reasons for
his resignation from that agency.
   One individual was traced into the Army and it was learned that he
had died as a result of an illness. Another individual was traced
through his employment in several States until he was finally located
in New York.     An investigation of this person disclosed that he was
an organizer for the Communist Party in Knoxville, Tenn., during the
time of Remington's employment; that his present wife had been
employed by the TVA that she was also a member of the Communist
                          ;



Party; and that prior to her present marriage she was married to
another Communist Party organizer. These individuals were brought
before the committee, at which time they refused, on the grounds of
self-incrimination, to answer all questions propounded to them with
respect to the activities of the Communist Party in Knoxville, Tenn.
The man questioned occupied a room with William Walter Remington
during the period of Remington's residence in Knoxville.
   To locate the former organizer and first husband of the woman
referred to above, the committee traced his activities from Tennessee
      REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN! ACTIVITIES                  3

to'California and eventually located him in a remote section of the
State of North Carolina. This witness identified himself as a former
Communist Party functionary and organizer in Knoxville, Tenn.
He also identified Remington as a member of the Communist Party
in Knoxville.   Other than Elizabeth T. Bentley,      this   was the   first
witness uncovered by the    Government who could place Remington
in the Communist Party.
    Another individual, whose name appeared in the postal records, was
traced from Tennessee through several States and located in the
State of New Jersey.       This person admitted membership in the
Communist Party, but had no knowledge one way or the other as to
the membership of William Remington.
    The last individual, whose name appeared in the postal records, was
traced from Tennessee to North Carolina, to the New England States,
to the United States Navy where he served during World War II,
and to his present employment in the State of Massachusetts. This
individual was subpenaed before the committee, and he related his
activities with the Communist Party in Knoxville, Tenn., testifying
that William Remington was a member of the same cell.
   During the investigations, the identity of other persons connected
with the Communist Party in Knoxville, Tenn., was ascertained.
However, no action was taken to subpena these individuals because of
the indictment of Remington by a Federal grand jury.
   The case of Remington, a Government employee, demonstrates the
difficulty with which the committee is faced as a result of the inability
of the committee to obtain leads from Government files.    Several other
individuals presently employed by the Federal Government are under
investigation.    The location of witnesses who can testify that these
individuals were at one time, at least, members of the Communist
Party is extremely difficult, as illustrated by the Remington investi-
gation.   The committee is also frequently thwarted by the refusal of
witnesses to testify on the ground of self-incrimination.
   In December 1949 a witness before the committee testified, under
oath, in detail as to espionage on the part of the Soviet Union accom-
plished through the lend-lease program and shipments to the Soviet
Union through the lend-lease air supply route from Great Falls, Mont.
   To determine the extent of espionage on the part of the Soviet
Union, a full investigation was ordered by the committee, and the
results of this investigation may be found in the hearings regarding
shipment of atomic material to the Soviet Union during World War
II.   To produce these results, it was necessary to dispatch investi-
gators into the State of Montana for the purpose of reviewing Air
Force records and interviewing civilian and military personnel who
handled the lend-lease shipments through Great Falls. Leads to
persons or documents then necessitated sending investigators into the
States of Illinois, Kansas, Georgia, Pennsylvania, and New York.       In
addition to this, committee investigators examined over 10,000
documents contained in the Army, Air Force, State, and Commerce
Departments files.
   Nothing is more vital to the security of the United States than a
knowledge of Soviet espionage activities, together with the identity
of Americans who are assisting or have assisted the Soviet Union in
its plot to destroy the United States.    The committee views with
horror the actions of American citizens who have aided the Soviet
4       REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN.-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Union and who     are free to masquerade as respected Americans only
because they know the Government can produce no legally acceptable
proof of their crimes. The committee knows, as do the intelligence
agencies of the executive branch, the identity of an individual who
has turned over secret and confidential information for the use of the
Soviet Union. Proof of this traitorous act, together with proof that
this individual has perjured himself when he denies the accusation, is
contained in the form of evidence which cannot be used in court be-
cause of a prohibition contained in the Federal Communications Act.
The committee is aware that this is not the only case in which prose-
cution is affected by the Federal Communications Act. In the com-
mittee's opinion, it is foolhardy and inexcusable for the people of the
United States to be denied protection from individuals who plot their
very destruction by an act which forbids investigative agencies the use
of evidence obtained as a result of a technical surveillance.       In its
recommendations, the committee strongly urges amendments to the
Federal Communications Act which will give intelligence agencies the
right to conduct technical surveillances and permit the use in evidence
of information obtained thereby in prosecution of several types of
crimes. While this legislation cannot be retroactive, the committee
intends to devote a major share of its efforts to a continued investiga-
tion of the persons who have engaged in espionage, and the proof of
their activities. As illustrated by the Scientist X  case, this is a long,
tedious process. A score of witnesses in the Scientist       Xcase have
been located and subpenaed by the committee. Prosecution is not yet
possible because a majority of these witnesses refuse to cooperate with
then Government, even though they themselves are not involved in
any espionage                            answer questions relating to
                activities, by refusing to
their   Communist Party    activities on the
                                         ground of self-incrimination.
    To conduct the expose of the Communist Party of Western Pennsyl-
vania, it was necessary for the investigative    staff to   interview over
100 persons and to review several thousand      documents in order to
conclusively establish the Communist Party      membership in western
Pennsylvania and to prove the Communist          activities of numerous
organizations.
  The same tedious investigation of details was necessary prior to the
successful exposure of Communist activities in the Territory of Hawaii,
of Communist Party activities in Cincinnati, Ohio, and in the com-
mittee's investigation of Communist fronts such as the National
Lawyers' Guild, the National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill,
the Hawaii Civil Liberties Committee, the Communist "peace"
campaign, and other front organizations.
  Considerable time has been spent in investigating the activities of
individuals participating in the international Communist movement.
An extensive investigation was conducted into the activities of Agnes
Smedley.   The committee planned to subpena, and expose the activi-
ties of,Agnes Smedley upon her return from England, but, because
of her death, the results of this investigation have not been made
public.  The same is true with respect to the activities of Louis
Dolivet, as was disclosed by an extensive investigation by this com-
mittee. The investigation disclosed that Dolivet held a semiofficial
position with the United Nations, as a result of which he traveled
under diplomatic passport, and at the same time was the editor of the
United Nations World.      The United Nations World, due         to its title,
      REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES              5

isdeemed to be a publication of the United Nations but, in fact, has no
connection with this international body. As a result of the investiga-
tion and hearings held by the committee, Dolivet's contract with the
United Nations has not been renewed, and it is the committee's
understanding that he was removed from editorship of the United
Nations World. Dolivet is presently in Paris and is excludable for
admission to the United States under the provisions of the Wood-
McCarran Communist Control Act.

         Shipment of Atomic Material to the Soviet Union
   In December 1949 George Racey Jordan, a former major in the
United States Air Force, testified with respect to the laxity of con-
trols over shipments to the Soviet Union, proceeding through the
Great Falls, Mont., Ah Base, under the lend-lease program. Jordan
testified that the Soviets shipped out of the United States on lend-
lease aircraft, documents which contained information of a highly
secret nature; information pertaining to Uaited States defense pro-
duction and capacity; and information relative to United States
relations with foreign governments, as well as information regarding
the atomic bomb.
   An investigation following the testimony of George Racey Jordan
developed that the United States, through actions of the office of the
Foreign Economics Administration, had licensed for export to the
Soviet Union materials vital to the production of the atom bomb.
The Soviet Union received on one occasion a shipment of 200 pounds
of uranium nitrate. On another occasion, the Soviet Union received a
shipment of 468 pounds of uranium oxide and 1,000 pounds of uranium
nitrate. The Soviet Union also received two shipments of heavy water
of 1,000 grams and 100 grams, respectively, and 25 pounds of uranium
metal.    Investigation further disclosed that the Soviet Union was
permitted, without regard to censorship or customs-inspection regula-
tions, to send out of the United States blueprints of the General
Electric plant at Lynn, Mass.; diagrams of an electrically operated
ship developed by the Groton, Conn., Shipbuilding Works; diagrams
of an A-20 type military aircraft; and other blueprints and data
relating to the industrial strength and know-how of the United States.
   Victor Kravchenko, a former employee of the Soviet Purchasing
Commission, testified on March 7, 1950, that every Soviet diplomat,
whether he be Malik in the United Nations, Panyushkin in Washing-
ton, or their colleagues in Paris or London, has gone through extensive
training along the lines of espionage and that espionage is one of the
principal duties connected with Soviet official diplomatic work. He
                                               —
further stated that every Soviet representative diplomatic, military,
                 —
or economic is a potential spy.
   During Mr. Kravchenko's testimony, he was questioned with
respect to a shipment of so-called diplomatic mail which the com-
mittee's investigation disclosed had passed through Great Falls in
February 1944, which had been accompanied by Semen Vasilenko.
Kravchenko testified that when Vasilenko was getting ready to fly
to the Soviet Union, he (Kravchenko), Vasilenko, and an individual
by the name of Vdovin packed six large bags which Vasilenko took
with him as diplomatic mail. Kravchenko testified he knew that
the six bags contained special information concerning metallurgical
           -»*   QO/IQ C1   O
6       REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

research and other developments vital to the military. Vasilenko,
today, is head of the production of metal pipes and tools
                                                          in the Soviet
Union. Kravchenko further testified that he knew of two Russian
Navy captains who had been sent to the United States to obtain,
which they did, technological processes and details on the develop-
ment of submarines.

                  Communism Within the Government
                          william w. remington

  William W. Remington, Commerce Department economist, was
suspended by that Department in August 1948 as a result of charges
brought against him by Elizabeth T. Bentley before the Senate
Investigations Subcommittee on Expenditures in the Executive
Departments in July of that year. The Loyalty Review Board
ordered him reinstated on February 10, 1949, on grounds that "the
evidence does not establish reasonable grounds for belief that William
W. Remington is disloyal." On April 26, 1950, Hon. John S. Wood,
chairman of the Committee on Un-American Activities, announced
that the committee had unearthed additional evidence and asked Mr.
Seth W. Richardson, chairman of the Loyalty Review Board, to
reopen the case. Hearings on the Remington case were held before
the Committee on Un-American Activities in April, May, and June
of this year with the following witnesses: Kenneth McConnell,
Merwin Scott Todd, Howard Allen Bridgman, William W. Remington,
Elizabeth T. Bentley, Horace Bryan, William Wheeler Hinckley, and
Margaret C. Hinckley.
   Kenneth McConnell admitted under oath his membership in the
Communist Party in the Knoxville, Chapel Hill, Chattanooga, and
Norfolk areas from 1935 into 1939, in which he served as an organizer.
Mr. McConnell identified Mr. Remington as a member of the Com-
munist Party of Knoxville, Tenn., during the afore-mentioned period
and listed the names of other members as well.
   Merwin Scott Todd refused to admit membership in the Com-
munist Party of Tennessee, on grounds of self-incrimination. He gave
the same answer when asked whether he had roomed with William
W. Remington in Knoxville and whether he had known the latter as
a member of the Communist Party. Despite Todd's denials, Mr.
McConnell, resuming his testimony, insisted that Mr. Todd had intro-
duced him to Remington. Mrs. Elizabeth Winston Todd, an associ-
ate director of the Columbia Broadcasting Co., refused to testify on
the same grounds when asked the same questions as her husband.
   Howard Allen Bridgman admitted membership in the Communist
Party from December 1938 to September 1939, having been a member
of its Knoxville branch during that period while he was employed as a
file clerk with the Tennessee Valley Authority.     Among others, he
identified William Walter Remington as an active member of his party
branch.
    William    W. Remington was examined by     the committee on May 4,
1950.     He   detailed his   employment with the Government, which in-
cluded the Tennessee Valley Authority, National Resources Planning
Board, Office of Price Administration, War Production Board, United
States Navy, Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion, Council
       REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN1 ACTIVITIES                            7

of  Economic Advisers, and the Office of International Trade in the
Department of Commerce.
   Under oath, Mr. Remington admitted association with the Ameri-
can Student Union while at Dartmouth College. This organization
has been cited as subversive by the Special Committee on Un-American
Activities in 1939, 1940, 1942, and 1944.    Remington denied having
been a member of the Young Communist League or the Communist
Party at any time. He admitted rooming with Merwin Todd,
identified as a Communist Party member by previous witnesses, and
of rooming with Henry Hart and Horace Bryan, both of whom
admitted Communist Party membership under oath before the com-
mittee.   He admitted having had dealings with Howard Allen
Bridgman, Elizabeth Todd, Bernard Borah, Muriel Speare, Ted
Wellman, Mabel Abercrombie, John M. Frantz, Kenneth Cameron,
and Francis Martin. He acknowledged having met a number of
Communists at the home of his mother-in-law, Elizabeth Moos,
among them being Joseph North, editor of the New Masses. Through
North, he testified he had met Jacob Golos, identified in previous
testimony as supervisor of the underground group within the Com-
munist Party operating in Washington, D. C. He further acknowl-
edged being "sympathetically associated" with the Workers Alliance,
which was cited as subversive by the Attorney General on December
4, 1947.   He was a member of the KnoxviJle Workers Education
Committee, which was operated by members of the Communist Party
listed above.   After denying that he had received mail at the post-
office box of this organization, he was confronted with a photostatic
copy of a union mailing list showing that he had. Post-office records
showed that this box was used jointly by other identified members of
the. Communist Party.      Confronted with the testimony of previous
witnesses regarding his membership in the Communist Party, Mr.
Remington reiterated his absolute denial.
   Indicative of the information to which Mr. Remington had access
is his admission that he knew of the Manhattan project as early as

1944, because of certain "overriding priorities" with              which he     dealt.
He also affirmed knowledge of other important priorities "issued for
many military uses." Describing his duties with the Orders and
Regulations Bureau of the War Production Board in 1943, he declared:
   I was general assistant to the Director of the Bureau.      In that capacity I was
partly responsible, largely responsible, I should say, for the supervision of the staff
economists. The nature of our work was to circulate proposed orders and regu-
lations to the interested agencies, to review their comments, to decide what
changes would be necessary before approval of a proposed order or regula-
tion   *  *   *.


    In describing Joseph North's continuing interest in his work "with
the War Production Board, Mr. Remington sought to have the com-
mittee believe that Mr. North had been primarily concerned with
"whether or not the administration in Washington was making a
sincere and determined effort to produce war materiel."             This
concern extended even to detailed knowledge of Board personnel. He
further sought to persuade the committee that Mr. Golos was intro-
duced to him as a writer interested in the "facts about the organization
of the war production program" and the personalities connected with
it.   According to the committee's information, the Russian-born Mr.
Golos was wholly unequipped to serve as an American writer and has
8     REPORT OF THE. COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

never written anything of any public consequence in English. Mr.
Golos in turn, Remington declared, introduced him to Helen Johnson,
alias for Elizabeth T. Bentley, saying that "he would appreciate it if
I chattered with her about this kind of problem."   It should be noted
here that Elizabeth T. Bentley occupied no position in the newspaper
business, nor had any recognition in the literary field.   These facts
could have easily been determined by Remington, had he made any
inquiries in this direction.  Remington admitted to at least half a
dozen meetings with her, never, however, in his office and always
allegedly "social in character."   He did not recall specifically men-
tioning to his superiors his meetings with Elizabeth T. Bentley, alias
Helen Johnson. He did, however, recall her interest in airplane
production, but he did not consider this improper. He discussed with
her "the policies of the War Production Board regarding the control
of materials."
  Asked whether he had furnished Miss Bentley with aircraft figures
including "little formulas and figures on scraps of paper because they
were easier to put in his pocket," as Miss Bentley had testified, he
admitted his use of "rough notes for my own information." He ad-
mitted furnishing her with a formula for the production of synthetic
rubber and gasoline, although the War Production Board never
indicated any desire to publicize this.
  It is common knowledge that the Daily Worker is the indispensable
mentor and guide for Communists everywhere. Mr. Remington dis-
closed that Miss Bentley (Johnson) had "passed her personal copy of
the Daily Worker" to him.       He confessed to giving her money in
1942 and 1943 allegedly for "refugees from Hitler," following an appeal
from Jacob Golos. He indicated that his donations had been given
to the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, whose officers have been
convicted for contempt of Congress and which has been cited as sub-
versive by the Attorney General.
   Miss Bentley took the stand on May 6, 1950. She identified Joseph
North as "a lookout man for Russian intelligence," serving Mr. Golos.
Her description of the functions of Golos, who had been her superior
in the Soviet intelligence apparatus, are highly significant:
  Mr. Golos was head of one of the branches of Russian intelligence, and was   my
superior.
   Russian intelligence made it a point to look for good espionage people. That
means that they were very much interested in this Government, and that meant
also they could not use their own nationals, because you can't put a Russian
national in a sensitive job in the Government in this country. Therefore they
had to get Americans. They knew if they bought a man somebody else could
outbuy them, but if they could get an ideologist they could use him better than
they could an adventurer.
   The type of American they wanted was a person who (was) absolutely impec-
cable.   They wanted a person whose background was so sound from every point
of view, morally and every other way, that nobody would ever suspect him of
being a spy; the type of person who any day could get a recommendation from his
Sunday-school teacher or college professor, or, if it was a woman, from her Girl
Scout leader.
   Every person they picked up came from the Communist Party via these look-
outs.   Joe North was one; Grace Granich was one; Intercontinent News was
another lookout. * * *
   Nevertheless, what you had to work on was whether or not these people, in
addition to being highly respectable, were good Communists.      Therefore, their
dossiers were checked over and over again before they were taken.       That was
easy in the case of Mr. Golos, because he was one of the three men on the disci-
pline commmittee, which keeps dossiers on every single Communist in this
        REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                   9
          *  *       So Mr. Golos checked and rechecked every dossier before
country          *.
even considering a person for espionage work.
  Miss Bentley recalled that Golos had made the following report to
her on Remington  when he turned the contact over to her:
  He  has been in the party quite some years, and I have checked him and he is
O. K.   He was referred to me by Joe North, and he is O. K. In addition to
that, he is a highly respectable person.
   Miss Bentley then testified that she had had rendezvous with Rem-
ington at least 10 or 20 times "on park benches, in drug stores, at
                *   *  *
street corners             in front of the Mellon Art Gallery" and
similar places.  She collected party dues      from him for which he was
furnished a receipt.
  William Wheeler Hinckley, former chairman of the American
Youth Congress, and employed from time to time by the Railroad
Retirement Board as an economist, the Treasury Department, and
the American Red Cross, was identified by Miss Bentley as a contact
of Remington.    While admitting his associations with such Com-
munist fronts as the American League Against War and Fascism, the
American League for Peace and Democracy, and the American Youth
Congress, he refused to affirm or deny connections with Miss Bentley,
Mr. Remington, or the Communist Party, on grounds of self-incrimi-
nation.   He did this despite the fact that he had previously signed an
affidavit under the Maryland Ober law denying membership in any
subversive organization. Mrs. Margaret C. Hinckley took the same
position.
  The case of William W. Remington was reopened by a Federal
grand jury on May 10, 1950, and on June 8 he was indicted for per-
jury in denying his Communist Party membership. His case is still
pending in the courts. He resigned from the Commerce Department
on June 9, 1950.
                             SOLOMON ADLER
   Solomon Adler has been employed by the Government as follows:
February 26, 1936, to November 30, 1936, associate economist,
National Research Project, WPA; December 7, 1936, to October 1,
1942, economic analyst, Treasury Department, Division of Monetary
Research; October 1, 1942, to February 29, 1944, American repre-
sentative, Chinese Stabilization Board, on payroll of the Chinese
Government; March 1, 1944, to February 7, 1949, Treasury Depart-
ment representative; February 7, 1949, to October 5, 1949, on leave
from Treasury Department without pay; October 5, 1949, to May
11, 1950, Office of International Finance, Treasury Department.
He had been previously cited by Miss Elizabeth T. Bentley as a
member of an underground group of the Communist Party, known as
the Silvermaster group.    He appeared before the committee on
April 25, 1950. Following the investigation by the committee and
his appearance, Mr. Adler resigned his position with the Treasury
Department.
   Mr. Adler admitted that he had first been introduced for a position
at the Peoples Junior College of Chicago, through Harold Glasser,
cited by Miss Bentley as a member of the so-called Perlo group of
the Communist Party.      He resided for some time with the Glassers.
  Letters in the files of the Works Progress Administration disclose
that Mr. Adler was offered a position with the National Research
10    REPORT OF THEi COMMITTEE ON      UNI- AMERICAN ACTIVITIES


Project by Irving Kaplan, who, according to committee testimony,
had also placed Whittaker Chambers on the same payroll. Kaplan
had been identified by Miss Bentley as associated with both under-
ground Communist groups.
  Through Harry Dexter White, assistant secretary of the Treasury,
and a contact of the Silvermaster group, Adler filed an application
with, and was subsequently employed by, the Treasury Department.
  Mr. Adler admitted associations with other members of the under-
ground Communist group, including Nathan Gregory Silvermaster,
William Ludwig Ullmann, Virginius Frank Coe, Abraham George
Silverman, William Henry Taylor, Victor Perlo, Solomon Lischinsky,
Harry Magdoff, Charles Kramer, John Abt, Nathan Witt, Donald
Wheeler, and Edward J. Fitzgerald.

                             LEE PRESSMAN

  According to the testimony of Whittaker Chambers in August 1948,
Lee Pressman had been a member of the Ware-Abt-Witt group of the
Communist Party operating within the Government. Appearing on
August 20 of that year, Mr. Pressman refused to affirm or deny his
membership in the Communist Party under first, fifth, and sixth
amendments to the Constitution, claiming further that the inquiry
was without the jurisdiction of the committee and that the committee
was unlawfully constituted. He appeared before the committee
again on August 28, 1950, in response to a subpena subsequent to his
resignation from the Communist-dominated American Labor Party.
   At his last appearance before the committee he admitted having
been a member of the Communist Party in 1934 and 1935. Although
he declared that he was prepared to "answer any and all questions"
regarding his activities, the committee was not impressed with any
notable desire on his part to reveal the inner workings of the Com-
munist conspiracy in which he had played a prominent part, although
he did denounce the Communist Party and its forces in the labor
movements as "supporters and apologists for an aggressive war."
He denied any knowledge of the "political beliefs or affiliations of
Alger Hiss." While mentioning Harold Ware, since deceased, as a
fellow Communist, Mr. Pressman objected strenuously when asked to
name others. He permitted the names of John Abt and Nathan Witt
to pass unchallenged as members of the group and added the name of
Charles Kramer, which was information already in the hands of the
committee. He also mentioned the name of J. Peters, who has since
been deported.     Heasked the committee to believe that the function
of this group            to read Communist literature and discuss it.
                was merely
  He denied that the party had given him any instructions. He
warned that there were many actions of the Committee on Un-
American Activities with which "segments of the population disagree."
At one point he said that the fact that an organization had been cited
as subversive by the committee "would not terribly impress me."
He admitted that he had not cooperated to any substantial extent
in divulging information to the FBI.      He admitted meeting with
"leaders of the Communist Party" while employed as general counsel
of the CIO and after his declared break with the party.      Although
serving as general counsel of the CIO for a number of years, he had
never informed the organization of his Communist affiliation. As
     REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES               11

late as   1948 he testified that he legally represented the following
Communist-dominated unions: Fur Workers Union; Mine, Mill and
Smelter Workers; Food and Tobacco Workers; United Public Workers.
He was a law partner of Nathan Witt from February 1948 until
November 1949. He met John Abt as late as 1948 and 1949.
   Mr. Pressman admitted knowing, at least "socially," a number of
persons who have been linked to the Communist Party, particularly
its underground apparatus and some of its top-flight leaders including:
Nathan Gregory Silvermaster, Louise Bransten (now Berman),
Richard Bransten, Henry Collins, Victor Perlo, Donald Hiss, George
Silverman, Harry Bridges, Roy Hudson, Eugene Dennis, Simon Ger-
son, Harold Cammer, J. Peters, and Carol Weiss King.         He asked
the committee to believe that he met with leaders of the Communist
Party subsequent to his break but accepted no "directions or in-
structions from these representatives," stating that by 1948 he had
not yet ideologically broken with the Communist Party.
   In 1936 the Communist Party was active in promoting aid to the
Spanish Loj-alists. Mr. Pressman remembered that Whittaker
Chambers introduced him to an individual engaged in purchasing
war materials for the Spanish Loyalists, and that he cooperated in
furthering this highly confidential mission.
  The witness acknowledged his affiliations with the following Com-
munist-front organizations: Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern
Policy (until 1950); International Juridical Association (1931 to 1932);
Civil Rights Congress (1949) Washington Committee for Democratic
                              ;




Action; Washington    Book Shop; Win-the-Peace Conference (1946);
Film Audiences for  Democracy (1939) Lawyers Committee on Ameri-
                                       ;


can Relations with Spain; National Federation for Constitutional
Liberties. He stated that he had severed his relations with all these
organizations.
  Pressman was entrusted with legal work by the Amtorg Trading
Corp., the Soviet trade representative in this country, during 1950,
according to his own avowal. In the same year he represented the
estates of persons with heirs in Russia, in the settlement of which the
Soviet Government is deeply interested. These cases had been
brought to him by a representative of the Soviet Embassy, Mr.
Novikov, who also consulted him as to the choice of an attorney for
Valentine Gubitchev, a Russian engineer with the United Nations,
arrested with Judith Coplon, on espionage charges.

                    ABRAHAM GEORGE SILVERMAN
  Abraham George Silverman was another of those identified by Miss
Elizabeth T. Bentley and Whittaker Chambers as a member of an
underground group of the Communist Party. When he testified on
August 12, 1948, Silverman refused to admit knowing other members
of this group or to affirm or deny membership in the Communist
Party on grounds of self-incrimination and possible prosecution by a
Federal grand jury which was meeting at that time. In view of the
fact that the jury had been dismissed, the committee desired to give
Mr. Silverman an opportunity to answer accusations made against
him and to cooperate with the committee. At a hearing held on
August 31, 1950, he refused, however, to do so, basing his refusal
upon the grounds that to do so might tend to incriminate him. This
12     REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

applied to his dealings with Nathan Gregory Silvermaster, William
Ludvvig Ullmann, Solomon Adlei^ Chao' Ting Chi, Joseph B. Gregg,
Ruth Gregg, Whittaker Chambers, Irving Kaplan, William H. Taylor,
David Niven Wheeler, Gedyge Shaw Wheeler, Allan Rosenberg,
                               '
ISlorman Bursler, Frank Coe r Veet Bassie, Harry Magdoff, and Lee
Pressman, all mentioned at one point or another in connection with
investigations regarding Communist activity within the United States.
  He did admit access to security information of vital importance.
In the office of the assistant to the Chief of the Air Staff, Materiel and
Services of the United States Air Force from March 1942 to August
1945, he supervised the execution of production schedules not only in
connection with airplanes, but "all other materiel that went into the
fighting of the war so far as the Air 'Force was concerned."
  It seems that Mr. Silverman was loaned to the Treasury Depart-
ment in an advisory capacity at the instance of Harry Dexter White,
who was his superior in that agency.
                              NATHAN WITT
  When Nathan Witt appeared before the Committee on Un-American
Activities on August 20, 1948, he refused to testify as to his dealings
with those listed as members of the underground group of the Com-
munist Party, as outside the scope of the committee under the first
and third amendment to the Constitution, on the ground that the
committee is illegally constituted, and on the ground that the inquiry
violates the sixth amendment to the Constitution.        He was given
another opportunity to testify on September 1, 1950. He then re-
iterated his previous stand.    He first entered Government employ-
ment in 1933 when he was attached to the Agricultural Adjustment
Administration of the Department of Agriculture, having been recom-
mended by Lee Pressman, and ultimately advancing to the post of
assistant general counsel.   He was closely associated with Alger Hiss,
John Abt, Lee Pressman, and Charles Kramer.
   In the course of this hearing, Nathan Witt was confronted with a
letter dated October 16, 1940, which he (Witt), as secretary of the
National Labor Relations Board, sent to the chairman of a special
committee of the House of Representatives to investigate the National
Labor Relations Board. In this letter, Mr. Witt wrote: "I am not
now, nor have I ever been, a member of the Communist Party, a
'Communist sympathizer' or one who 'hews to the Communist Party
line.'    Despite the fact that this was an official communication,
Mr. Witt at this hearing refused, on the ground of self-incrimination,
to state that he had sent the letter or that the statements contained
therein were true or false.

                            CHARLES KRAMER
  On   the   same day Charles Kramer, who had testified previously on
August   12,   1948, was given the opportunity to appear.    He had
refused to answer questions as to his Communist affiliations or activ-
ities on the ground of self-incrimination and took the same position
on his second appearance. Under questioning he admitted acquaint-
anceship with David Wahl, Max Lowenthal, James Roy Newman,
Herbert Schimmel, Harry Dexter White, Martin Popper, Monroe
Stern, Jack Abbott, William and Edwina Pomerantz, Lee Pressman,
     REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES              13

and John Abt.       Hedeclined to affirm or deny such knowledge in all
other cases.   He insisted that a man can be a Communist and a loyal
American   at the same time.
                                JOHN   J.   ABT

  John J. Abt had testified previously on August 20, 1948, refusing to
answer questions regarding Communist activities or affiliations on the
same ground maintained by Nathan Witt. He appeared before the
committee on September 1, 1950, and assumed the same position.
The only persons he admitted dealings with were Lee Pressman,
Charles S. Flato, and Simon Gerson, refusing to answer as to all others
on the ground of self-incrimination.

  Expose of the Communist Party of Western Pennsylvania
   From February 21 to March 25, and again at intervals from June
to October, 1950, the committee conducted hearings dealing with the
activities of the Communist Party in the important industrial area
of western Pennsylvania. The committee was fortunate in securing
the cooperation of Matthew Cvetic, who had been working as an
undercover agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation within the
Communist Party from 1943 to 1950. From the role of an ordinary
party member, Cvetic, through his skill and intelligence, raised him-
self to membership on the district committee of the Communist Party
and to membership on its nationality commission dealing with foreign-
language minority groups.
  Mr. Cvetic first of all placed the spotlight upon an extensive list of
Communist Party members and officials who, because of the con-
spiratorial nature of the organization, would not otherwise have been
known. A number of those named had penetrated, or had become
employed by, key industrial plants in the Pittsburgh area.
  In view of the large proportion of foreign-born in western Penn-
sylvania, particularly in the basic industries, Mr. Cvetic's exposure
of the operations of the party among these groups is vitally important.
According to this witness, the party supervises this activity through
local and national commissions for each language group such as
Croatian, Slovene, Slovak, Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Italian,
Greek, Jewish, and Serbian. Mr. Cvetic was secretary of the Slovene
Commission of the party and a member of the executive board of the
American Slav Congress. He declared that the function of the national
commission and its subdivisions was "to plan and direct the work
of the Communist Party members in the front organizations, the
language press, fraternal organizations, trade unions, and other mass
organizations" which might include foreign-language groups, partic-
ularly such organizations as the American Slav Congress, the Croatian
Fraternal Union, the United Committee of South Slavic Americans,
the American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, the American Associa-
tion for Reconstruction in Yugoslavia, the International Workers
Order, the American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born, the
Serb Yidovdan Council, the National Council of Americans of
Croatian Descent, and the Federation of American Croatian Women.
   Mr. Cvetic outlined the functions of the political commission of the
Communist Party, which included being "responsible for carrying
the Communist Party line into the Progressive Party."
      H. Rept. 3249, 81-2   3
14        REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   An important phase of Mr. Cvetic's testimony was his description
of the precautions adopted by the Communist Party, including the
destruction of all lists, records, and party membership cards.
   The western Pennsylvania district of the Communist Party main-
tained a steel commission, headed by the district organizer, which
selected "key concentration areas" for activity, including the following
steel plants: Crucible Steel Co., Jones & Laughlin, and the United
States Steel Co.   In August 1948 a meeting of 110 party members was
held in the North Side Carnegie Library which was addressed by
Henry Winston, speaking in behalf of the national board of the party.
He stressed the importance of western Pennsylvania to the party
"because the basic industries are located here steel, mining, and                        —
electrical," and announced that Steve Nelson was to be the new
organizer.   In previous reports we have described fully Nelson's
record as a member of the Communist espionage ring, who had
received extensive training in both sabotage and espionage in Moscow
and the Spanish Civil War. The logic of the selection is obvious.
  Mr. Cvetic indicated how the relatively small Communist Party was
able to exercise influence far out of proportion to its numbers, citing
how, with 8 or 10 members, it was able to control the union at the
Crucible Steel Co. with a membership of 2,800.
  Included as part of Mr. Cvetic's testimony was an analysis of the
personnel and activities of the party machine in the United Electrical,
Radio and Machine Workers of America, the United Mine Workers,
and the Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union.
  Mr. Cvetic paid a tribute to the work of the Committee on Un-
American Activities in exposing the American Youth for Democracy
and the American Slav Congress and in crippling the Communist
usefulness of these organizations.
   "A Communist never stops receiving instructions, either in classes
or through 'must' reading," declared the witness as he enumerated the
various types of classes responsible for the Communist indoctrination,
such as classes for beginners, party functionaries, advanced classes,
and even classes for sympathizers. In the event of a conflict with the
Soviet Union, a party member is bound, according to this teaching,
"to wage a struggle against his own government, even to the point of
a revolution and        overthrow," Cvetic stated.
                              .   .     .




  During the committee's investigation, a number of documents were
obtained pertaining to the operations of the Labor Youth League of
Western Pennsylvania, the current Communist youth organization.
Among these documents was a breakdown of membership for various
States, including:
California    :                                                     Ohio
       Alameda County                                         135
       Los Angeles                                            531
    San Francisco         J
                                                               98
Connecticut                                                    85
Illinois                                                      286
Indiana                                                        10
Massachusetts                                                 110
Michigan                                                      210
Minnesota                                                      53
New Jersey                                                    200
New York          2
                                                        3,    515
 1
     46 included in State total not included in breakdown.
 '   357 included in State total not included in breakdown.

 Source: Cvetic Exhibit No.           11,   Expose   of the   Communist Party   of   Western Pennsylvania,   pt. 2, p. 2415.
          REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                  15

  One of the most active Communist fronts in western Pennsylvania
was the Civil Rights Congress whose main objective, according to
Mr. Cvetic, was "the defense of the Communist Party leadership."

                   Activities in the Cincinnati         Area

  Inquiry into Communist activities in the Cincinnati, Ohio, area
covered the period of July 12, 13, 14, 15, and August 8, 1950.
Witnesses included John J. Edmiston, Martha Nichols Edmiston,
Victor Decavitch, David H. Levison, Frank Hashmall, Talmadge
Raley, Marjorie Elaine Steinbacher, and Esther M. Tice.
  Mr. Edmiston testified that he had been an undercover member of
the Communist Party in the State of Ohio. He had been recruited
through such front organizations as the Workers Alliance and the
Emergency Peace Mobilization. In the course of his testimony, he
described some of the methods by which the Communist Party
secured signers for its election petitions.       The heading for Earl
Browder, candidate for president, and James Ford, for Vice-President,
was turned down. Another caption was substituted at the top. The
petition was carried on a clip board, so that the signer saw not what was
actually on the petition, but the superimposed strip of paper. Seven
individuals were arrested as a result of this fraud. He also listed and
identified a number of Communists operating in this area. He verified
the fact that the principal source of instruction and indoctrination
for American Communists is the book known as The History of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union.
   Describing the Communist-inspired strike at the William Powell
Valve Co., Mr. Edmiston declared:
  It   was the principal bottleneck of the Navy's building program for submarine
valves,  and the entire Navy building program was held up by that * * *
strike.

   Mr. Edmiston described a Communist project known                     as   the
Congress of Southern Ohio Youth headed by Marcia Spofford, which
was organized ostensibly for the purpose of protecting the welfare of
conscripts but actually was intended to "break down the morale of
the men who were conscripted." Its activities included writing to
soldiers in camps, soliciting letters from them complaining of unsanitary
conditions, poor food, brutality of officers, immorality, segregation,
etc.  It can be expected that, in the event of any conflict with Com-
munist forces, similar efforts will be employed by American Com-
munists to sow disaffection in our Armed Forces.
   Mrs. Martha Nichols Edmiston, who also acted as an undercover
Communist, testified on her activities within the League of Women
Shoppers and the Workers Alliance. She referred to the former organ-
ization as "almost entirely dominated by the Communist Party"
and oftentimes labeled as the "Communistic Ladies Aid."
   The behind-the-scenes manipulations of the Communists in the
conference of the American Youth Congress held in Columbus, Ohio,
in the summer of 1940 was described.
   The next witness was Victor Decavitch, former district president of
the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America and a
former member of the Communist Party, who placed in the record
the names of Communists holding the key positions in that union.
He estimated that 99.9 percent of its paid staff were party members.
16      REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

It would seem that serious friction often arose within the union as
to the authority of the Communist Party as against that of union
officials.
   Marjorie Elaine Steinbacher, a former member of the Communist
Party, had been employed in a secretarial capacity with the National
Maritime Union and the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine
Workers of America. She identified the many Communist Party
members with whom she had met, both in local 766 and in the neigh-
borhood group to which she was attached. Robert Gunkel, Com-
munist organizer, would come into the     UEoffice from time to time,
according to Miss Steinbacher, and "read all the leaflets, papers, and
articles that were written" and edit them.   He would write articles
for the union paper and have "one of the field representatives sign
hisname."
  Frank Hashmall, executive secretary of the Communist Party          of
Franklin County, Ohio, refused on grounds of self-incrimination       to
answer all pertinent questions regarding the activity of his organiza-
tion and the identity of those connected with it. The same procedure
was followed by Talmadge Raley, representative of Local 766 of the
United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America.
  Esther M. Tice, identified as a Communist and secretary-treasurer
of the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers, local 766,
refused to answer questions as to her activity and affiliations, on
grounds of self-incrimination.
   One witness, David H. Levison, who at first refused to answer ques-
tions on similar grounds, ultimately changed his plans and decided to
testify on August 8, 1950.     He had joined the party in 1935 after
having been active in one of its fronts, the Pen and Hammer Club,
which paraded as "an anti-Fascist club for intellectuals." He added
valuably to the list of Communist Party members operating in this
area.
  According to this witness, considerable reliance was placed upon the
circulation of the Daily Worker for party building.        It was "the
means by which we by and large received the party line," he said.
"The editorials of the Daily Worker were the bible, as it were, of local
organizations of the party."

                   Communist Party of Hawaii
   Public hearings held in Honolulu, T. H., from April 10 to 20, 1950,
revealed that the Communist Party of Hawaii is a subdivision of
district 13 of the Communist Party of the United States, with the
announced chairman as Charles K. Fujimoto, but actually headed by
Jack Hall, the regional director of the ILWU. The importance of
Hawaii to our national security made this investigation of paramount
significance.
  The Communist Party of the Territory of Hawaii began organiza-
tion during the year 1938 with the influx of Communist Party members
as organizers for the ILWU, which entered the Territory of Hawaii to
organize for the first time the waterfront, sugar, and pineapple workers.
Jack Hall, identified by numerous witnesses before the committee as
a long-standing member of the Communist Party, became regional
director of the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's
Union. Jack Hall was an appointee of Harry Bridges, the head of
         REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES           17

the ILWU, who was recently convicted of perjury by the United
States courts, in denying his Communist Party membership at the
time of naturalization. Testimony before the committee revealed
that Jack Hall, while regional director of the ILWU, was introduced
at Communist Party meetings in the Territory of Hawaii, as the
Communist Party organizer for that area, and that he has remained
in control of the Communist Party activities to the present day.
   To cover up the leadership of Jack Hall, the Communist Party, on
October 15, 1948, publicly announced that there was a Communist
Party of Hawaii, and that Charley K. Fujimoto was assuming the
chairmanship.     Fujimoto, prior to this announcement, had been
employed as a research scientist by the University of Hawaii. Fuji-
moto, subpenaed as a witness before the committee, which subpena
called for the production of all records of the Communist Party in the
Territory of Hawaii, refused to produce any records, and refused also
to answer any questions propounded to him, relating to his Communist
Party activities on the ground of self-incrimination.
  Upon organizing the workers of the waterfront, sugar, and pineapple
industries, Jack Hall surrounded himself with individuals identified
before the committee as members of the Communist Party. These
Communists were placed by Jack Hall in the most strategic positions
within the union, thereby assuring the control of the union by members
of the Communist Party. Testimony taken at the hearings revealed
that in some instances individuals recruited into the Communist
Party were elected to union offices without knowledge that they were
even candidates. Through this method, a well-knit minority of Com-
munist Party members exercised complete control over the large
membership of the ILWU. Today, therefore, we find a curious situa-
tion where the so-called International Longshoremen and Warehouse-
men's Union has within its membership and under the control of the
Communist Party,   the workers of the basic industries of the Territory
of Hawaii; namely, shipping, pineapple, and sugar.
   To maintain this economic control of the Territory of Hawaii, the
Communist-controlled   ILWU    has pitted race against race and creed
against creed in any issue where it was losing ground with the workers.
In this manner, a well-knit minority has been able to maintain rigid
control over the rank and file of a powerful union.
  In recruiting workers to membership in the Communist Party, the
Communist leaders of the   ILWU    were successful in being able to dupe
many workers into joining the Communist Party. Testimony heard
time and again during the hearings disclosed that many of these
individuals were duped into believing that they could best serve the
cause of organized labor through membership in the Communist
Party.   However, when the true Communist philosophy was made
known to these individuals, it not only alienated them, but was
responsible for their disassociating themselves from the Communist
Party.   It is indeed encouraging to read the testimony of many
witnesses who testified that when they obtained a true knowledge of
Communist teachings, as contained in the constitution of the Com-
munist Party of the Soviet Union, calling for the overthrow of demo-
cratic governments, they lost no time in severing their relationship
with the Communist Party. The fact that many individuals were
duped into joining the Communist Party on the pretense of gaining a
labor education does not mean that there is not present in the Territory
18     .REPORT OF THE,   COMMITTEE ON UN-AMElRIOANi ACTIVITIES

of  Hawaii a hard core of dyed in the wool Communists, who are
devoted to the overthrow of the Governments of the United States
and the Territory of Hawaii. It must be remembered that the
Communist movement spread to the Territory of Hawaii through
organizers of the Communist Party who were born and received their
Communist training on the mainland of the United States. The
hard core of Communists presently in the islands, is therefore com-
posed of mainland Communists, or Hawaiians who were trained by
Moscow-dominated Communists on the mainland.
   In addition to their control over the basic industries, the Communist
Party in the Territory of Hawaii had gained some measure of political
control through its infiltration of a major political party.   In line with
this venture, the Communist Party in the Territory of Hawaii, in
1945, embarked on a most energetic campaign in an attempt to secure
control of the Democratic Party in the Territory of Hawaii.          Testi-
mony presented to the committee at its hearings in Honolulu reflected
that at Communist Party meetings in Hawaii during the year 1945,
instructions were given to party members to become active in their
local precinct of the Democratic Party in an effort to gain some office
or position within that precinct.       These instructions were issued
repeatedly to Communist Party members at Communist Party
meetings in the Territory of Hawaii in the year 1945.
   The next phase of this campaign was the establishment of the
Territorial CIO Political Action Committee.        The main function of
this Political Action Committee was the endorsement of candidates
who were to be supported by the rank and file members of the ILWU.
A perusal of the make-up of the Political Action Committee clearly
shows who dictated the policies and practices of that committee. Of
the seven officers of the CIO Political Action Committee, six were
identified as members of the Communist Party in the Territory of
Hawaii by witnesses appearing before this committee during the recent
hearings in Honolulu. Testimony heard at these hearings revealed
that, in actuality, the decisions of the PAC were never released until
the problems had been fully discussed by the Central Committee of
the Communist Party in the Territory of Hawaii.         Communist Party
discipline was employed most effectively in directing the activities of
the Territorial PAC in the general election of 1946. A summary of
the success of the Politial Action Committee activities in the general
election of 1946 indicates that out of 51 candidates endorsed for office
by the PAC, 35 were elected to Territorial, city, or county offices.
  During this same period and subsequent thereto, members of the
Communist Party were not lax in carrying out the instructions given
them  to infiltrate their local Democratic precincts.    A careful survey
of the list of delegates who attended the Territorial Democratic Con-
vention held at McKinley High School on       May  2, 1948, in Honolulu,
34 delegates were positively identified as members of the Communist
Party in Hawaii by witnesses appearing before the committee.
  Of the witnesses who appeared before the committee, three were
notable because of their positions in public life. Mr. Richard Kage-
yama, the first witness heard by the committee, is a duly elected mem-
ber of the Board of Supervisors for the City and County of Honolulu,
T. H. He was also an elected delegate to the Hawaii State Constitu-
     REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN1 ACTIVITIES             19

tional Convention, which was sitting in the city of Honolulu at the
time of the committee's hearings.
   Mr. Kageyama told of his experiences within the Communist
Party in great detail and was most cooperative with this committee.
Subsequent to this testimony before the committee, he resigned his
delegate's  position within the constitutional convention, stating
that he felt that if he remained within the convention it might
endanger Hawaii's chances for statehood. Mr. Kageyama exhibited
courage and determination in his testimony before this committee
in exposing the evils of communism as he had come to know them.
   Another witness who was notable because of his position in public
life, was Mr. Frank Silva, business agent for ILWU, on the island of
Kauai and also an elected delegate to the State constitutional con-
vention. Mr. Silva was identified by two witnesses before the com-
mittee as a member of the Communist Party in the Territory of
Hawaii. When he was subpenaed to answer these charges, he
declined to answer any questions regarding his membership in the
Communist Party on the ground of self-incrimination. In addition,
he refused to answer questions put to him by the committee relating
to his education within the United States.  Subsequent to his appear-
ance before the committee, he refused to resign from the consti-
tutional convention, but was expelled by a vote of the convention
delegates.
   Since the conclusion of the committee's hearings in Honolulu, the
citizens of Hawaii have taken it upon themselves to "put their house
in order."   The Democratic Party is moving to rid itself of any and
all Communists or Communist influence within its ranks.         Within
the Territory of Hawaii, there is in existence a legislative committee
on un-American activities and a Territorial commission on sub-
versive activities, both embodied with the power of subpena and
established for the purpose of investigating and exposing any and
all subversive activities within the Territory of Hawaii.
   In addition, the national CIO organization, on May    17 through 19,
inclusive, conducted hearings in the city of Washington, D. C, before
a subcommittee of the executive board of the CIO to hear testimony
and evidence on the question of expelling Harry Bridges and the
ILWU     from the national CIO organization; subsequent to these
hearings, they were expelled.
  The hearings of the Committee on      Un-American Activities of the
House   of Representatives conducted in Honolulu have served as a
beacon light to the people of Hawaii in apprising them of the degree
of Communist activity which has taken place in their Territory.
The committee feels that these citizens now know moie of the methods
and practices of the Communist Party and are much better equipped
to meet any new threat that may arise as a result of activity on the
part of the Communist Party.
  The individual citizens of the Territory of Hawaii who played a
part in the exposure of this evil and its direct purposes can well be
proud of their contribution to the Congress of the United States.
The people of the Territory of Hawaii owe a debt of gratitude to those
persons who possessed the courage and determination to come forward
and expose this foreign-directed conspiracy which seeks to undermine
and ultimately overthrow our own American way of life.
20       REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN* ACTIVITIES

Hearings Regarding Communism                                  in   the District of Columbia,
                         Part                                 2

  On December 6, 11, 12, and 13, 1950, the committee continued its
investigation into Communist activities in the District of Columbia.
Of the 11 witnesses who were called to testify, six admitted former
membership in the Communist Party and gave information regarding
many persons whom they had known to be members of the Communist
Party and various Communist activities in which they had partici-
pated. The other five witnesses refused to answer questions regarding
their alleged Communist membership and activities.
   Henry Thomas, president of Building Laborers' Local Union 74, an
affiliate of the International Hodcarriers, Building and Common
Laborers Union of America, A. F. of L., testified on December 6 and 11,
1950, that his Communist membership began in 1937 and was termi-
nated just prior to his signing the non-Communist affidavit under the
Taft-Hartley Act on April 26, 1949.
   During the time that he was a member of the Communist Party,
Thomas stated that he had known of the following branches of the
party which operated within the District of Columbia: Frederick
Douglas Branch, White Collar Club, a super super secret branch com-
posed of Government employees, the actual name of which he was
unaware, branches at Howard University and at one other university
in Washington, a branch set up in Central High School, the Petworth,
Stanton Park, Southeast, West End, Thomas Jefferson, Northwest
branches, and the Tom Paine branch of the Young Communist League.
These were all controlled by the city committee and above that by the
State committee (Maryland-District of Columbia).
   More than 30 persons were identified by Henry Thomas as having
been known to him as members of the Communist Party in the
District of        Columbia among             whom           are the following:
James Branca          l
                                       Clarence   (alias  Casey)                Dan O'Day
Tansel Butler                            Gurewitz    1
                                                                                Elizabeth Searle
Ernest Chambers               2
                                       Norris Hammond 2                         Benny Secundy
Martin Chancey                         Al Lannon                                Mary Stale up
Leroy Coad                             William S. Johnson                       Shirley Taylor
Calvin Cousin                          George Mevers                            William C. Tavlor
Eddie Felder                           Robert Paul       >
                                                                                Gladys G. R. Thomas
Philip Frankfeld                       Ray Pinkson                              Albert Underwood
McKinlev Gray             2
                                       Florence Plot nick                       Thomas Waller
William Gray 2                         Thomas G. Sampler            2
                                                                                Roy Wood       '




      Thomas            Communist school located at One Hundred
                    described a
and Twenty-eighth Street, off Seventh Avenue in New York City,
where he had been sent at the expense of the Communist Party to
take special courses in Marxism-Leninism-Stalinism. He said that
he had been selected because he was thought to be                                     —
a good prospect for someday becoming a professional revolutionary. * * *
You become a professional revolutionary and sever all ties with family, church,
all institutions that would in any way tie you down and prevent you from going
from one place to another at any time. * * * You were at the command of
the Communist Party. That is all you worked for. That is what you lived for.
  i
      When   questioned regarding   Communist Party membership,         refused to testify on the ground of possible
self-incrimination.
  *   Admitted former Communist Party membership.
         REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                              21

  Among the    things that Thomas had been taught in these Commun-
ist classeswere the plans of the part}>- for establishing a Negro Soviet
in the so-called Black Belt of the United States, the area stretching
from Maryland to Texas. Also taught was the importance of the
tactical line of the Communist Party working within the A. F. of L.
and the C. I. O.
   On December 12, 1950, Thomas G. Sampler, secretary-treasurer of
the Building Laborers' Local 74, testified that he had been recruited
into the Communist Party of the District of Columbia in May 1947
by Henry Thomas, and had become affiliated with the Frederick
Douglas Club of the party. According to Sampler's testimony the
objective of the Douglas Club of the Communist Party had been "to
see that Henry Thomas controlled the union (local 74)."           Orders
came down from the Trade Union Commission of the Communist
Party designating those who should run for office in the local union.
   Communist activities which Sampler said he had participated in
in the District of Columbia included: Citizens Committee for Paul
Robeson, Citizens Committee for the Negro Committee Rally, Civil
Rights Congress, Progressive Party, and classes in Communist teach-
ings held at 4402 Georgia Avenue NW. In these classes he said that
the plans of the Communist Party for establishing a Negro Soviet in
the area known as the Black Belt were discussed. He was also
taught Marxist theory. At State board meetings of the Communist
Party which were held in Baltimore, he saw Alice Stapleton, Professor
Blumberg of Johns Hopkins University, and his wife, Dorothy
Blumberg.
   Thomas Sampler resigned from Communist Party membership by
letter addressed to Roy Wood, secretary of the party in the District
of Columbia, in April 1949, before signing the non-Communist affi-
davit under the Taft-Hartley Act.       Before resigning, he stated that
he had realized that the Communist ideology was not what it had
appeared to be and that he had wished to withdraw his membership.
   The following persons were named by Thomas Sampler as having
been known by him to have been members of the Communist Party                                                :




 Lem Belton               Mrs. Rob Hall            Sally Peake
 James Branca         1
                          Tom Hurney               Ray Pinkson
Tom  Buchanan                           William S. Johnson              Alice Stapleton '
Ernest Chambers               2         Chester Kurrier   J
                                                                        Shirley Taylor
Gertrude Evans                          Lois Kurrier                    William C. Taylor
Phil Frankfeld                          Nonnie Lautman                  Gladys Thomas
McKinlev Gray             2
                                        Norris   Hammond      2
                                                                        Henrv Thomas          2


William Gray 2                          Robert Paul   1
                                                                        Thomas Waller
Clarence (Casey) Gurewitz           *
                                        Charles   "Top" Payne           Roy Wood         *




  The testimony of William Gray, business agent, Building Laborers,
Local 74, taken by the committee on December 12, 1950, revealed
that he had joined the Communist Party in 1945 and had been
assigned to the Douglas Club. His membership in the Communist
Party was terminated in late 1948 or early 1949 because he had become
dissatisfied with the party. Among the persons who were named by
  i
      When   questioned regarding   Communist Party membership,   refused to testify   on ground   of possible
self-incrimination.
  2   Admitted former Communist Party membership.
22        REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

William Gray as having been known to him as members of the Com-
munist Party are the following:
James Branca          x
                       Ray Pinkson          Gladys Thomas
Ernest Chambers 2      Thomas G. Sampler 2  Henry Thomas 2
Leroy Coad                             I'lizabeth Searle                Al Underwood
McKinley Gray             2
                                       Mary  Stalcup                    Thomas Waller
Norris       Hammond          2
                                       William C. Taylor                Roy Wood       '



William       S.   Johnson
   Also testifying before the committee on December 12, 1950, Norris
Hammond,     sergeant at arms of Building Laborers' Local 74, testified
that he had been recruited into the Communist Party in the District
of Columbia by Henry Thomas and had been assigned to the Douglas
Club. He stated that he had resigned from the Communist Party
before signing the non-Communist affidavit under the Taft-Hartley
Act. Other than the persons who had been named previously in the
course of this hearing as having been known by him to have been
affiliated with the Communist Party, Hammond included the name
of    Mose Mannigan.
   In his testimony before the committee on December 12, 1950,
Ernest L. Chambers, trustee of Local 74, Building Laborers' Union,
described the Echo Club to which he had been invited by Henry
Thomas as "really a clearing house for those they [Communists]
were recruiting" into the Communist Party. Ernest L. Chambers
became a Communist Party member in 1943, and was assigned to the
Douglas Club. The persons he had known as members of the party
have previously been named in preceding paragraphs of this report.
In union work, Chambers said that he had been taught to follow
directions of the Communist Party rather than directions of officials
of the union.    He testified that he broke with the party in April
1949, before signing the non-Communist affidavit under the Taft-
Hartley Act.
  McKinley Gray, an executive board member of Local 74, Building
Laborers' Union, also testifying on December 12, 1950, admitted
having joined the Communist Party in 1948 or 1949, and that he had
become disinterested and stopped attending meetings shortly there-
after.
   The committee heard testimony of Roy Wood, who, according to
newspaper accounts and sworn testimony of former members of the
Communist Party, was elected chairman of the Communist Party
in the District of Columbia in 1948 and also served as secretary.
This witness appeared before the committee on December 12, 1950,
and, when faced with charges of Communist Party activities and
membership, refused to answer questions on the ground of possible
self-incrimination. As a former Government employee, he had been
connected with the Works Progress Administration, Civilian Conserva-
tion Corps, Forestry Department of the Department of Interior, and
the Federal Security Agency.
   Robert Paul, alleged chairman of the northeast branch of the
Communist Party of the District of Columbia, and formerly book-
keeper and window clerk of the Building Laborers' Union, Local 74,
when appearing before the committee on December 12, 1950, refused
to answer questions regarding Communist allegations and other
  1
      When   questioned regarding   Communist Party Membership,   refused to testify on ground of possible
self-incrimination.
  2   Admitted former Communist Party membership.
     REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OX UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                  23

questions put to him by the committee. He did state that at one
time he had been a waiter at Boiling Field.
  On December 13, 1950, Alice Mary Theresa Stapleton, now a resi-
dent of New York City, was a witness before the committee. Miss
Stapleton had been named in sworn testimony as having been a
member of the Communist Party in the District of Columbia. When
queried regarding her alleged Communist Party membership and
her emplo}Tnent record, Miss Stapleton refused to answer all questions
on the ground of possible self-incrimination. During the interroga-
tion of Miss Stapleton, she was shown a photostat of a document
known as Foreign Official Status Notification, purportedly signed by
her which reflected that she had been employed by the OWI as a
CAF-4 in the code and cipher section; as English teacher in the
Soviet Embassy; and as typist in the Bulgarian Political Mission.
She declined to answer all questions concerning this document on the
same ground.
   Chester L. Kurrier, an employee at the Superior Print Shop in
Washington, D. C, was heard by the committee on December 13,
1950.    He declined to answer questions about his alleged Communist
activities on the ground of possible self-incrimination, but did testify
that he was acquainted with Alice Stapleton, Henry Thomas, and
Thomas G. Sampler.
   Clarence Darrow Gurewitz (alias Casey), construction worker,
testified before the committee on December 13, 1950.       He declined
to answer questions put to him regarding his Communist Party affilia-
tions, including his alleged chairmanship of the northwest section of
the Communist Party of the District of Columbia, on the ground of
possible self-incrimination. He described his former Federal employ-
ment to have included positions with the Veterans' Administration,
Bureau of the Census, and the Park Service under the Department of
the Interior.
                      National Lawyers Guild
  The National Lawyers Guild is the foremost legal bulwark of the
Communist Party, its front organizations, and controlled unions.
Since its inception it has never failed to rally to the legal defense of
the Communist Party and individual members thereof, including
known espionage agents. It has consistently fought against National,
State, and local legislation aimed at curbing the Communist con-
spiracy. It has been most articulate in its attacks upon all agencies
of the Government seeking to expose or prosecute the subversive
activities of the Communist network, including National, State, and
local investigative committees, the Department of Justice, the FBI,
and law-enforcement agencies generally. Through its affiliation with
the International Association of Democratic Lawyers, an international
Communist-front organization, the National Lawyers Guild has con-
stituted itself an agent of a foreign principal hostile to the interests of
the United States. It has gone far afield to oppose the foreign policies
        T
of the L nited States, in line with the current line of the Soviet Union.
               —
   These aims the real aims of the National Lawyers Guild, as
demonstrated conclusively by its activities for the past 13 years of its
existence—  are not specified in its constitution or statement of avowed
purpose. In order to attract non-Communists to serve as a cover for
its actual purpose as an appendage to the Communist Party, the
24    REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

National Lawyers Guild poses benevolently as "a professional organi-
zation which shall function as an effective social force in the service of
the people to the end that human rights shall be regarded as more
sacred than property rights." In the entire history of the guild there
is no record of its ever having condemned such instances of the
violation of human rights as found in Soviet slave labor camps and in
the series of Moscow trials, which shocked the civilized world.
   The National Lawyers Guild was formally organized at a convention
held in the Washington Hotel in Washington, D. C, on February
19-22, 1937.    National headquarters were established in the Nation's
Capital, where they remain today.
  Communists publicly hailed the founding of the National Lawyers
Guild.   New Masses, a weekly publication of the Communist Party,
                                                                —
featured an article entitled "Defense for the Counsel The Need for
the National Lawyers Guild" in its issue of June 14, 1938 (pp. 19-21).
This article, written by Charles Recht, an attorney for the Soviet
Government and a member of the guild, observed that                 —
   With the growth of the American Labor Party in New York, and kindred
progressive movements throughout the United States, the lawyers, who in many
of the smaller communities are the nerve centers of political activities, will be an
invaluable aid in galvanizing the latent liberal elements of the country into a
political force. The National Lawyers Guild can and will form one of the most
important adjuncts to a progressive movement representing the interests of the
workers and farmers.
 '
  The International Labor Defense, which was cited by former
Attorney General Francis Biddle as "the legal arm of the Communist
Party," also enthusiastically welcomed the new front, the National
Lawyers Guild. The ILD stated in its 1936-37 yearbook that
                                                                                 —
  The emergence of the National Lawyers Guild is regarded by the International
Labor Defense as a heartening expression of the devotion of thousands of American
attorneys to the American principle of democracy, and a concrete step on their
part in the struggle to maintain and enlarge democratic rights (p. 64).
  Earl Browder, testifying before the House Committee on Un-
American   Activities on September 6, 1939, in his capacity as general
secretary of the Communist Party, admitted that the National Law-
yers Guild was a Communist transmission belt.
   This has been corroborated by Louis F. Budenz, former member of
the National Committee of the Communist Party and one-time manag-
ing editor of its official newspaper, the Daily Worker. Testifying
before the House Committee on Un-American Activities on April 3,
1946, Mr. Budenz described the National Lawyers Guild as a working
ally of the Communist Party and stated that members of the guild
would be under the influence of the party while "officers would be
Communists or fellow travelers." Testifying again before the com-
mittee on July 20, 1948, Mr. Budenz said:
   In the National Lawyers Guild there is a complete duplicate of the Communist
Party's hopes and aspirations in that field, although there are a number of non-
Communists in the National Lawyers Guild. In fact, some of their lawyers
locally are not Communists, but they play the Communist game either wittingly
or unwittingly.

   The National Lawyers Guild, as an organization, has intervened
in the major court cases which have involved individual Communist
leaders or officials of Communist-front organizations or unions. In
every instance, the guild has interceded on the Communist                side.
        REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON        UNI- AMERICAN ACTIVITIES    25
r
  The guild submitted a brief amicus curiae in the case of Robert
Wood, an Oklahoma Communist official who was convicted of criminal
syndicalism in that State in 1940. When, in the same year, avowed
Communist Ben Gold and other leaders of the Communist-controlled
Fin and Leather Workers Union were convicted in court of using ter-
rorism in the labor field, the National Lawyers Guild again appeared
as a friend of the court in behalf of the defendants.
   A resolution opposing deportation proceedings against Communist
Harry Bridges was adopted by the fifth convention of the National
Lawyers Guild in 1941. The guild also submitted a brief amicus
curiae in the case.
   In recent years, the National Lawyers Guild has intervened as
amicus curiae on behalf of the following leading Communists:
   Gerhart Eisler, Communist international agent convicted in
United States courts of passport fraud and contempt of Congress;
   Leon Josephson, Communist attorney exposed as an official pro-
curer of false passports for Communist agents such as Gerhart Eisler;
Josephson was convicted of contempt of Congress;                        j


   Carl Aldo Marzani, convicted of concealing Communist affilia-
tions while employed by the United States Government;
   John Howard Lawson and Dalton Trumbo, Communist screen
writers from Hollywood convicted of contempt of Congress;
   Eugene Dennis, secretary of the Communist Party, U. S. A.,
convicted of contempt of Congress.
   The National Lawyers Guild also intervened in behalf of      —
   Richard Morford, who as head of the subversive National Coun-
cil of American-Soviet Friendship was convicted of contempt of

Congress    ;


     George Marshall, head      of the now-defunct Communist front,
the National Federation for Constitutional Liberties, also convicted
of contempt of Congress;
   Edward K. Barsky and other officers of the subversive Joint Anti-
Fascist Refugee Committee convicted of contempt of Congress;
   Eleven top officials of the Communist Party, U. S. A., convicted of
conspiracy to advocate the overthrow of the United States Govern-
ment by force and violence.
  The Committee on Un-American     Activities on September 17, 1950,
issued a report on the National Lawyers Guild, exposing that organi-
zation as a Communist front and recommending that the Attorney
General of the United States place this organization on his list of
    Communist   fronts.

           National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill
      The National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill, since its
    inception, has served as a registered lobbying organization which has
    carried out the objectives of the Communist Party in its fight against
    antisubversive legislation.
      During the progress of the investigation relating to the National
    Lawyers Guild, it was brought to the attention of the committee
    that there existed between this Communist-front organization and
    the National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill a close organi-
    zational and financial relationship.
26        REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   The National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill first came into
being in June of 1948 when Jerry J. O'Connell registered with the
Clerk of the House of Representatives as a lobbyist for this organiza-
tion.  At that time O'Connell stated that he was on loan to the newly
formed National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill from the
Progressive Party of the State of Washington and that he was to
receive from the Progressive Party a salary of $125 per week.  Travel-
ing expenses were to be borne by the National Committee To Defeat
the     Mundt       Bill.
      The National Committee To Defeat      the Mundt Bill, during the
course of its campaigns, has engaged in an active working relationship
with the Communist Party. Furthermore, the program of the
National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill, just as in the case of
its recent benefactor, the National Lawyers Guild, directly parallels
the program of the Communist Party against any legislation which
might tend to curb the influence of communism in America. These
relationships are clear upon the examination of an official document
of the Communist Party of the United States, which was made avail-
able to the Committee on Un-American Activities as a result of a
subpena served on Matthew Cvetic, former under-cover agent of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and was entered into the official
record at an executive hearing held on October 13, 1950, as Cvetic
exhibit No. 96.     This document was originally obtained, along with
                         *




many other documents, by virtue of a search and seizure warrant
issued in Pittsburgh, Pa.      These documents were taken from the
headquarters of the Communist Party in Pittsburgh, Pa., located
on the fourth floor of the Bakewell Building. This office serves as
headquarters for the Communist Party of Western Pennsylvania and
the Ohio Valley and is headed by the well-known Communist organi-
zer, Steve Nelson.
   The official Communist Party designation of this document is " Dis-
cussion Outline for the Fight Against the Mundt-Nixon Bill," issued
by the national educational department, Communist Party. The
document itself is not dated, but within the text of the document
there is a reference to an editorial which appeared in the Daily Worker
on March 7, 1950. It is apparent, therefore, that this document was
compiled by the Communist Party subsequent to this date. The
document instructs Communist organizers and club leaders how to
propagandize most effectively against the Mundt-Nixon bill. In
connection with these instructions, Communist Party leaders are
directed to contact the National Committee To Defeat the Mundt
Bill as a source for material and assistance.      Specifically, they are
directed to contact the National Committee To Defeat the Mundt
Bill "for material for mass distribution, speakers, etc."   The National
Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill is listed, in company with the
Daily Worker and the public affairs committee of the Communist
Party, as a source of material and assistance in their campaign against
anti-Communist                legislation.
  Jerry O'Connell, in performing his duties as a registered lobbyist of
the National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill, solicited the help
of the Communist Party.    This is substantiated by the fact that on
September 13, 1950, Jerry O'Connell sent to Henry Winston, 35 East
                                                                                                            1

 1
      Cvetic exhibit No. 96   isprinted in its entirety in an official committee publication entitled "Expose   of
the   Communist Party    of   Western Pennsylvania, Part 3."
      REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       27

Twelfth Street,   New York       City, a telegram   from which the following
is^quotcd:
   Also urgently request you wire and secure every possible message from your
organization to President Truman to veto this bill after full 10 days' study, and
to Senators and Congressmen to sustain veto.

  Henry Winston is a member of the national committee of the Com-
munist 'Party, and is its organizational secretary. He was recently
convicted, in company with 10 other national leaders of the Com-
munist Party in New York City, for conspiracy to advocate the over-
throw of the United States Government by force and violence. The
address to which the telegram was sent, 35 East Twelfth Street,
New York City, is the official address        of the national headquarters,
Communist Party, U. S. A.
                             "
               Communist         Peace Petition" Campaign
   The current "peace petition" campaign of the Communist Party is
a direct outgrowth of the Stockholm "peace petition" adopted in
March 1950 by the so-called World Peace Congress, as announced in
the March 24, 1950, issue of For a Lasting Peace, for a People's Democ-
rac}', official organ of the Information
                                         Bureau of the Communist and
Workers Parties (Cominform)        In conformity with the directive con-
                                   .



tained in the issue of For a Lasting Peace, for a People's Democracy,
the Communist Party, USA, formulated its own "peace plan," as re-
ported in the June 11, 1950, issue of the Worker, official organ of the
Communist Party, USA. This "peace plan" of the Communist Party
called for a "Nation-wide drive for millions of signatures," and notified
every Communist that he "has the duty to rise to this appeal." On
June 20, 1950, the "peace petition" received the official stamp of ap-
proval from the Supreme Soviet of the U. S. S. R.
   The petition being generally circulated in the United States is under
the sponsorship of the peace information center, headed by Elizabeth
Moos, the mother-in-law of William Walter Remington, now on trial
for perjury relating to his Communist Party membership.         In addi-
tion to these petitions, other petitions identical to the Stockholm
"peace pledge" are being circularized by the Labor League for Peace,
the Maryland Committee for Peace, and other State bodies. The
committee has advised the American people not to affix their signa-
tures thoughtlessly to this appeal, being aware of the implications and
seriousness of such acts.
   The committee has in preparation a detailed report dealing with the
Communist world-wide "peace" offensive, with particular reference to
its significance in the United States.   This report will be issued soon
after the convening of the Eighty-second Congress.

                           Legislative Activity

  The need             Communist activity in the United States can-
              to control
not be questioned.   Confronted as we were with a problem of such
magnitude and importance as this, your committee drafted and
presented to Congress legislation which it felt would check the machin-
ations of a conspiracy inspired and directed by a foreign power, and
involving many thousands of individuals, including some native-
born Americans, without infringing upon the rights of every citizen
guaranteed by the Constitution.
 28         REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   A careful analysis of the strategy and tactics of communism in the
 United States disclosed that legislation should be directed toward   —
    (1) Making it unlawful for any officer or employee of the United
 States to communicate in any manner to any person who is an agent
 or representative of a foreign power or a member of a Communist
 organization any information which has been classified as affecting
 the security of the United States unless specifically authorized to do
 so by the head of a Govermnent department;
    (2) Making it unlawful for any agent or representative of a foreign
 government or member of a Communist organization to obtain or
 receive from any officer or employee of the United States any informa-
 tion which has been classified as affecting the security of the United
 States unless special authorization for such communication shall first
 have been obtained from the head of a department;
    (3) Making it unlawful for any member of a Communist organiza-
 tion, in seeking, accepting, or holding any nonelective office or em-
 ployment under the United States, to conceal the fact that he is a
 member of such organization, or to hold any nonelective office or
 employment under the United States;
    (4) Making it unlawful for any officer or employee of the United
 States to contribute funds or services to a Communist organization;
    (5) Making it unlawful for a member of any Communist organiza-
 tion, in seeking, accepting, or holding employment in any defense
 plant, to conceal the fact that he is a member of such organization,
 or to engage in any employment in a defense plant;
    (6) Making it unlawful for any individual employed in a defense
 plant to contribute funds or services to a Communist organization;
      (7)Making it unlawful for a member of a Communist organization
 to   make application for a passport or the renewal of a passport, or to
 use or attempt to use any such passport;
   (8) Requiring the registration with the Attorney General of        all
 Communist-front organizations     ;


    (9) Requiring the registration of any individual who is or becomes
 a member of a Communist-action organization concerning which there
 is in effect a final order
                            f"
                              the Subversive Activities Control Board
 requiring such organization to register and such organization does not
 register     ;



    (10) Requiring the registration of any individual who is or becomes
 a member of a Communist-action organization which has registered,
 but which has failed to u ±ude his name upon the list of members
  thereof filed with the Attorney General.
     Beginning in the Eightieth Congress and continuing in the Eighty-
  first Congress, your committee did much of the pioneer work in

  formulating legislation designed to combat the Communist conspiracy
  operating within the United States. In fact, the legislation enacted
  was largely based upon the findings contained in the committee's
^p^port, Communist Party of the United States as an Agent
                                                                    of a
  Foreign Power, published    in 1947.  In furtherance  of this work,  it
  heard the views of many outstanding legislative authorities concerning
  a law to control subversive activities. During this past year, your
  committee again held hearings in which were presented the views not
  only of many learned individuals who favored the passage of legisla-
       REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                   29

tion similar to      H. R. 9490 but   also   testimony of those   who opposed
any   legislative action.
   Due consideration was given to all views and proposals voiced by
witnesses before your committee.      After the legislative proposals
were received and the testimony evaluated, your committee unan-
imously presented to the Congress H. R. 9490, which we felt
combined the best features of all legislative proposals considered by
the committee.
   H. R. 9490, which was passed on August 29, 1950, by a roll-call vote
of 354 to 20, included not only the needed provisions outlined above,
but many others which your committee felt were necessary to destroy
the effectiveness of the Communist Party of the United States as an
agent of a foreign power. This legislation became the core of the pres-
ent Subversive Activities Control Act, which was passed over a
Presidential veto on September 22, 1950, by a vote of 286 to 48.  Some
of the fundamental provisions proposed in H. R. 9490 and adopted in
the Subversive Activities Control Act are as follows:
   (1) Making it unlawful for any person knowingly to combine, con-
spire, or agree with any other person to perform any act which would
substantially contribute to the establishment within the United States
of a totalitarian dictatorship;
   (2) Requiring the registration of all members of a Communist-
action as well as a Communist-front organization;
   (3) Creating a Subversive Activities Control Board, which shall
have general supervision over determining what organization or organi-
zations are subject to the provisions of this act;
   (4) Providing for penalties of 5 years' imprisonment or $10,000 fine,
or both, for violation of any provisions of the act.

                                  Conclusions
  The year 1950 has marked a new stage in the struggle against com-
munism in the United States. The attack up^n Korea makes it plain
beyond all doubt that communism has passed beyond the use of sub-
version to conquer the independent nations and will now use armed in-
vasion and war. With the Armed Forces .7 the United States actually
                                                 1


pitted in conflict against the legions of international communism, the
Communist Party of the United States can no longer be viewed pas-
sively as a group of mere political and ideological dissidents, but must
be looked upon with all seriousness as a       itary fifth column actively
                                            ;l



aiding our enemies.
   Yet, today we find many of these potential fifth columnists employed
in our leading defense plants, making weapons to be used against the
Communist armies which they are pledged to support. To remove
these persons from positions where they could sabotage our defense
production there was included in the Wood-McCarran Communist-
control   bill   a section which prohibits        of Communist Party
                                             employment
members      in defense plants designated assuch by the Secretary of
Defense.   The committee recommends that the Congress adopt a
resolution calling upon the Secretary of Defense to immediately place
in effect the provisions of section 5 of Public        Law   831, Eight}^-first
Congress.
30    REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES     1




     The operations of the Smith Act and the Subversive Activities
 Control Act of 1950, and the various Communist cases before the
 courts should be made the subject of continuing study during the
 coming year, with a view to determine their effectiveness and the
\adoption of constantly improved methods of restricting the operations
  )f the Communist fifth column.  We cannot afford to allow ourselves
to  become hopelessly enmeshed in outworn legal technicalities which
 (ftentimes serve to give protection and encouragement to a most
  isidious internal foe.           We
                            must streamline our legal machinery to
/meet the present emergency, which poses legal problems never en-
'visagedby our founding fathers.
  Loopholes in the present laws and in procedure before congressional
committees, which Communist lawyers are quick to exploit, should
be plugged up. The committee recommends that the Congress seri-
ously consider authorizing the use of technical evidence secured during
the course of investigations involving espionage, treason, or other
crimes involving the security of the United States to intercept and
use as evidence in any criminal proceeding information obtained as
the result of a technical surveillance.
  Both in the courts and in hearings before our committee, the inform-
ative value of testimony by those who have actually been inside the
Communist movement, either as undercover agents or as former
party members, has been increasingly demonstrated. In the light
of the present world situation and the possible aggravation of the
Communist problem, it can be expected that legal prosecutions will
increase, making the services of qualified witnesses more and more
indispensable in building up evidence.    Thought should be given to
ways and means of stimulating defections from the Communist
movement and of encouraging qualified informants.
   In connection with hearings dealing with local 74 of the AFL
Laborers' Union, it was brought out that those operating under the
discipline and direction of the Communist Party went through the
process of formally resigning from the party and then signing the
non-Communist affidavit, in order to comply with the provisions of
the Taft-Hartley Act.      A number of cases of this kind have been
brought to the attention of the committee. The incoming Congress
should study the advisability of amending the act in order to make
such evasion illegal and impossible.

                                 Contempt Citations
  In 1950, your committee found it advisable to recommend that 56
persons be cited for contempt of Congress for refusing to answer
pertinent questions propounded at hearings conducted by the com-
mittee in the course of its investigations into un-American activities.
The House of Representatives has cited all of these recalcitrant
witnesses,   and   all   of   them have been indicted for contempt   of Congress
by Federal grand         juries.    The 56 persons cited are:
              REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                  31


                                                      H. Rept.                  Date indicted
                       Name             H. Res. No.
                                                        No.
                                                                 Date passed     by Federal
                                                                                 grand jury

Julius   Emspak                                749        2847   Aug. 10,1950   Nov.    20,      1950
Steve Nelson                                   750        2848   ....do         Dec. 4,1950
Philip Bart            -                       751        2849   .._.do         Nov.    20, 1950
James    J.   Matles                           752        2855   Aug. 11,1950       Do.
Thomas Fitzpatrick                             753        2856   ....do.            Do.
Thomas Quinn                                   754        2857   ....do             Do.
Frank Panzino                                  755        2858   ..._do             Do.
Ralph Tokunaga                                 756        2859   ....do         Oct.    11,1950
Charles Fujimoto.. .                           757        2860   ....do             Do.
Dwight James Freeman-..                        758        2861   ....do             Do.
Esther Bristow                                 759        2862   ....do             Do.
Rachel Saiki                                   760        2863   --.do              Do.
John Reinecke                                  761        2864   -..-do             Do.
Ernest Arena                                   762        2865   -...do             Do.
Koichi Imori.                                  763        2866   -...do             Do.
Denichi Kimoto                                 764        2867   ....do             Do.
Pearl    Freeman                               765        2868   ....do             Do.
Marshall McEuen                                766        2869   --.do_             Do.
Ruth Ozaki                                     767        2870   -__.do             Do.
Stephen Murin                                  768        2871   ....do             Do.
Jack Hall                                      769        2872   -...do             Do.
Frank Silva                                    770        2873   ....do             Do.
Jack    Kawano                                 771        2874       do             Do.
John Akana                                     772        2875       do             Do.
Yukio Abe                                      773        2876       do             Do.
Yasuki Arakaki                                 774        2877   ....do             Do.
Edward Hong                                    775        2878   ....do             Do.
Kameo  Ichimuri                                776        2879   ....do             Do.
Douglas Inouye                                 777        2880   -...do             Do.
Levi Kealoha                                   778        2881   ....do             Do.
Adele Kensinger                                779        2882   ....do             Do.
Benjamin Kaahawinui                            780        2883   ....do             Do.
Frank Kalua                                    781        2884       do             Do.
Yoshita Marumo                                 782        2885   ....do             Do.
Robert Murasaki                                783        2886   ....do             Do.
Robert McElrath.                               784        2887    do                Do.
Julian   Napuunoa                              785        2888   ..-do              Do.
Tadashi (Castner) Ogawa                        786        2889   ....do             Do.
Hideo Okada           :                        787        2890   ....do             Do.
Wilfred Oka                                    788        2891   ....do                Do
Jeanette Nakama Rohrbough-    ._               789        2892   ..-do              Do.
Mitsuo Shimizu-.                               790        2S93   ....do             Do.
Frank Takahashi.                               791        2894   -.-do              Do.
Shigeo   Takemoto                              792        2895   ....do             Do.
Ralph Vossbrink                                793        2896   ...-do             Do.
Thomas Yagi                                    794        2897   ....do             Do.
Giovanni Rossi Lomanitz                        795        2898   -...do-        Dee.        4,   1950
David Joseph Bohm                              796        2899   ....do            Do.
Irving David Fox                               797        2900   ..-do             Do.
Clarence Hiskey                                798        2901   __-do          Nov. 20, 1950
Frank Hashmall                                 799        2902   ....do            Do.
Talmadee Raley                                 800        2903   ....do            Do.
Esther Tice                                    801        2904    da_              Do.
Marcel Scherer                                 802        2905    do            Dec.     4,      1950
Mrs. Louise Berman                             803        2906    do            Nov.    20, 1950
Pasquale Leonard James Branca                  804        2907       .do               Do.



                                   In Retrospect
  In 1950, the United States courts acted in a number of cases orig-
inating before your committee during the 12-year course of its investi-
gations.
                                   HARRY BRIDGES
  For instance, in its annual report of January 3, 1939, the Special
Committee on Un-American Activities urged that deportation pro-
ceedings be "vigorously and promptly" prosecuted against Harry
Bridges. It declared that Bridges
                                         —
was a Communist alien, that he belonged to an organization which preaches the
overthrow of the United States Government by force and violence; that he him-
self advocated the overthrow of the Government
                                               by force and violence; and that
he had likewise advocated sabotage.
32         REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   Harry Bridges was successful in obtaining American citizenship in
1945.   But on May 25, 1949, he was indicted by a Federal grand jury
on charges of conspiracy and perjury 4n connection with his obtaining
citizenship.  The Immigration Service immediately filed a civil com-
plaint seeking to revoke Bridges' citizenship, declaring that he was a
Communist when he was naturalized and still is a member of the
Communist Party. The Bridges trial began on November 14, 1949.
Indicted and tried with him were his two aides in the International
Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union, James Robertson and
Henry Schmidt. On April 4, 1950, a jury found Bridges guilty on two
           —
counts that he committed perjury when at his naturalization hear-
ing on September 17, 1945, he swore he had never been a Communist
Party member, and that he conspired with his codefendants to deny
party membership. Robertson and Schmidt were found guilty of
conspiracy and on another count of abetting Bridges' perjury by swear-
ing at naturalization proceedings that Bridges was not a Communist
when they knew he was. Bridges was sentenced to 5 years in prison
for perjury and 2 years for conspiracy, the sentences to run concur-
rently.   In response to the Government's appeal, Federal Judge
George B. Harris revoked Bridges' citizenship on June 21, 1950.
Bridges immediately appealed his conviction and is now free on bail
pending the outcome of his case in the higher courts.

                                EUGENE DENNIS

  Eugene Dennis, general secretary       of the Communist Party, was
summoned     to appear before the committee on April 9, 1947.       He
willfully failed to appear in response to the subpena and was therefore
cited, indicted and convicted for contempt of Congress and sentenced
to 1 year in jail and a $1,000 fine.    Dennis appealed his conviction,
but it was subsequently upheld by the United States Court of Appeals.
   The Supreme Court then granted certiorari limited to a question
raised by Dennis as to whether he had received a fair and impartial
trial since Government employees served on the jury which tried and
convicted him.   Dennis contended that Government employees would
feel that, in view of the President's loyalty order, if they did not
return a verdict of guilty against a member of the Communist Party
they would lose their jobs. The Supreme Court's decision said, in
part   :




  Vague conjecture does not convince that Government employees are so intimi-
dated that they cringe before their Government in fear of investigation and loss of
employment if they do their duty as jurors, which duty this same Government
has imposed upon them.

Therefore, on May 27, 1950, the Supreme Court affirmed the decision
of the lower courts, and Eugene Dennis is now in jail.

                                  ALGER HISS
  On January 21, 1950, Alger Hiss, whose name was first brought to
the attention of the American public by your committee, was con-
victed of perjury for falsely swearing before a Federal grand jury
that he had not seen David Whittaker Chambers, a self-confessed
Soviet espionage agent, after the year 1937, and that he had never
furnished confidential State Department documents to the same
       REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERTCAN ACTIVITIES              33

David Whittaker Chambers. Hiss appealed his conviction to the
United States Court of Appeals, which on December 7, 1950, handed
down its decision unanimously upholding his conviction. Hiss is
now free on $10,000 bail, pending further appeal.
                              HOLLYWOOD TEN
  In 1947, the committee conducted an investigation of Communist
influence in the motion-picture industry. Certain individuals were
summoned to appear before the committee. These individuals            —
Alvah Bessie, Herbert Biberman, Lester Cole, Edward Dmytryk,
Ring Lardner, Jr., John Howard Lawson, Albert Maltz, Samuel
Ornitz, Robert Adrian Scott, and Dalton Trumbo, who came to be
                                  —
known as the "Hollywood Ten" were subpenaed and appeared before
the committee, where each witness refused to affirm or deny member-
ship in the Communist Party in response to the committee's ques-
tions.  Contempt proceedings were instituted against the 10, and
John Howard Lawson and Dalton Trumbo were convicted of con-
tempt of Congress and sentenced to 1 year in jail, together with
$1,000 fines. Both appealed the verdicts. The remaining eight
witnesses had in the meantime proposed a stipulation, which was
agreed upon that the cases of Lawson and Trumbo would be con-
sidered test cases, and their cases were continued for disposition pur-
suant to this stipulation.
  The United States Court of Appeals upheld Lawson's and Trumbo's
convictions,   and on April    10, 1950, the Supreme Court    refused to
review the decisions.       Lawson and Trumbo immediately     petitioned
the   Supreme Court   to reconsider its refusal to review their contempt
of Congress convictions.       On  May   29, 1950, the Supreme Court
refused to reconsider its decision.   Lawson and Trumbo began serving
their 1-year sentences on June 9, 1950.
   In the week of June 21-28, 1950, the remaining eight witnesses,
having waived jury trials, went on trial in district courts before
Judges Pine, Curran, and Keech in three groups. On June 29, 1950,
decisions in all three trials were rendered, and all eight witnesses were
convicted of contempt of Congress.

               JOINT ANTI-FASCIST REFUGEE COMMITTEE

  The Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee was cited as a Com-
munist-front organization by the Special Committee on Un-American
Activities on March 29, 1944. On December 4, 1947, and September
21, 1948, the Attorney General cited the organization as subversive
                                   .




and Communist.        TheJoint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee com-
plained against this citation to the United States District Court in
the District of Columbia which dismissed the plea.        The district
court's decision was subsequently upheld by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals.     The organization then appealed to the
Supreme Court, and on March 13, 1950, the Supreme Court, in a
brief order, said it would review the appeal of the Joint Anti-Fascist
Refugee Committee. The case was heard on October 12, 1950, but
no decision has been rendered as yet.
   The chairman of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, Dr.
Edward K. Barsky, and 17 other leaders of the organization were
34   REPORT OF THE. COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN' ACTIVITIES

cited for contempt of Congress in 1946 for refusing to produce books
and records subpenaed by the Committee on Un-American Activities.
They were tried and convicted of contempt of Congress in district
court and these convictions were upheld in appellate court in all but
two cases. The United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia reversed the convictions of Miss Helen R. Bryan, execu-
tive secretary of the JAFRC, and Mrs. Ernestina G. Fleischman,
executive committee member, on the ground that a quorum of the
committee was not present at all times during the committee hearings.
The Government petitioned the Supreme Court for a rehearing, and
on May 8, 1950, the Supreme Court upheld the contempt of Congress
citations against Miss Bryan and Mrs. Meischman, reversing the
court of appeals.      The     court held that the   quorum question made
no difference because the offense was failure to produce records and
that offense could have occurred by other means than personal
appearance. The Court also held that it could not "condone" a
"patent evasion" of the duty of a person who has been summoned
before a congressional committee "a subpena is a sterile document if
its orders may be flouted with impunity."      Miss Bryan and Mrs.
Fleischman were sentenced to 3 months in jail and fined $500.
   On May 29, 1950, the Supreme Court refused to review the convic-
tions for contempt of Congress of 11 other members of the Joint Anti-
Fascist Refugee Committee and on June 7, 1950, they went to jail.
Chairman Edward K. Barsky was sentenced to 6 months and fined
$500.   The others, all members of the executive board, who were
sentenced to 3 months and $500 fines each, were Howard Fast, Jacob
Auslander, Lyman R. Bradley, Mrs. Marjorie Choclorov, Harry M.
Justiz, Mrs. Ruth Leider, James Lustig, Louis Miller, Mrs. Charlotte
Stern,   and Manuel Magana.
  On October   23, 1950, the Supreme Court refused to review further
legal steps taken against Miss Bryan and Mrs. Fleischman.      After
their convictions were affirmed by the Supreme Court "the case was
returned to the lower courts to ascertain whether certain challenges
by Mrs. Fleischman and Miss Bryan had been completely answered.
The trial court found that all the questions had been settled by rulings
on other cases, and the circuit court agreed" (New York Times,
October     24, 1950, p. 1).

                                GEORGE MARSHALL
  On April 10, 1950, the Supreme Court refused to consider the case of
George Marshall, who as chairman of the Communist-front National
Federation for Constitutional Liberties (now merged with the Civil
Rights Congress, which is also a Communist front) refused to produce
records, etc., in response to a subpena issued by your committee, and
was therefore cited for contempt of Congress by the House of Repre-
sentatives.   Marshall was indicted by a Federal grand jury, tried,
convicted, and sentenced to 3 months in jail and a fine of $500.  His
conviction was upheld by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals.
After the Supreme Court refused to consider the case, Marshall began
serving his sentence on June 1, 1950.
      REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICANi ACTIVITIES                      35

                             RICHARD MORFORD

   Richard Morford, chairman of the National Council of American-
Soviet Friendship, a Communist front, was cited for contempt of
Congress by the House of Representatives on August 2, 1946, for
refusal to testify and produce records as required by a subpena of the
Committee on Un-American Activities. Morford was indicted by a
Federal grand jury for contempt of Congress in 1947, and in 1948 was
tried in district court and found guilty on two counts of contempt of
Congress. He was sentenced to imprisonment for a period of 3 months
and fined $250. In 1949, the United States Court of Appeals upheld
his conviction.
   On April 10, 1950, the Supreme Court reversed Morford's con-
viction, saying that the trial court was wrong in refusing to permit
Morford's lawyers to interrogate prospective jurors with respect to
possible influence of the President's loyalty order "on their ability
to render a just and impartial verdict."
   When Morford was retried in district court on June 28, 1950, he
waived a jury trial, and on June 30, 1950, was again convicted of
contempt of Congress. On July 7, 1950, the court again sentenced
Morford to 3 months in jail and fined him $250.

                     Distribution of Publications

   According to the records of our Publications Section, close to half
a million copies of pamphlets dealing with communism and subversive
activities was distributed by that office during the year 1950.
   The publications released by the committee during the past year
are as follows   :




Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Radiation Laboratory and Atomic
                                                                —
  Bomb  Project at the University of California, Berkeley, Calif. vol. II (identi-
  fication of Scientist X) August 26, 1949; July 1 and September 10, 1948;
  August 14, September 14 and 27, 1949.                         —
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Labor Unions Part 2 (security
  measures relating to officials of the UERMWA-CIO) December 5 and 6, 1949.
Testimony of James Sterling Murray and Edward Tiers Manning (regarding
  Clarence Hiskey and Arthur Adams) August 14, 1949, and October 5, 1949.
Hearings Regarding Shipment of Atomic Material to the Soviet Union During
  World War II December 5 and 7, 1949; January 23, 24, 25, and 26, and March
  2, 3, and 7, 1950.
Expose of the Communist Party of Western Pennsylvania, based upon testimony
  of Matthew Cvetic (undercover agent) February 21, 22, and 23, and March
  13, 14, and 24, 1950.
                                                                        —
Hearings Regarding Communist Activities in the Territory of Hawaii Part I
  April 10, 11, and 12, 1950.                                           —
Hearings Regarding Communist Activities in the Territory of Hawaii Part 2,
  April 13, 14, and 15, 1950.                                           —
Hearings Regarding Communism in the United States Government Part I,
  April 20, 21, 25, 29, May 4, 5, and 6, 1950; July 30, and August 7, 1948;
                                                                            and
  June 8, 1950.
Hearings Regarding Communist Activities in the Territory of Hawaii Part 3
                                                                         —
  and appendix and index April 17, 18, and 19, 1950.
Hearings on Legislation to Outlaw Certain Un-American and Subversive Activ-
  ities, March 21, 22, 23, and 28, 1950.
                                                            —
Expose of the Communist Party of Western Pennsylvania Part 2, based upon
  testimony of Matthew Cvetic (including appendix and index), March 24 and
  25, 1950.
36    REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Testimony   of Philip A. Bart (general manager of Freedom of the Press, publishers
  of the   Daily Worker, official organ of the Communist Party) and Marcel
  Scherer (coordinator), New York Labor Conference for Peace and formerly
  district representative of district 4,     UERMWA(CIO), June 21, 1950.
                                                                          —
Hearings Regarding Communist Activities in the Cincinnati, Ohio, Area Part 1,
  July 12, 13, 14, and 15; August 8, 1950.
                                                                  —
Hearings Regarding Communist Infiltration of Minority Groups Part 3 (testi-
  mony of Josh White), September 1, 1950.
Hearings Regarding Communism in the United States Government Part 2,      —
  August 28 and 31, September 1 and 14, 1950.
American and Mexican Aspects in Connection with the Assassination of Leon
  Trotsky, July 26, August 30, October 18 and 19 and December 4, 1950.
                                                                    —
Expose of the Communist Party in Western Pennsylvania, Part 3 based upon
  testimony of Matthew Cvetic, including Communist Party documents of west-
  ern Pennsylvania, June 22, September 28, October 13 and 21, 1950.
                             —
House Report No. 1950 Annual Report of the Committee on Un-American
  Activities for the Year 1949, March 15, 1950.
                             —
House Report No. 2986 Report on Hawaii Civil Liberties Committee, a Com-
  munist Front, June 23, 1950.
Index III to Publications of the Committee on Un-American Activities, June 28,
  1950.
The Communist "Peace Petition" Campaign (interim statement), July 13, 1950.
                          —
House Report No. 2980 Protection of the United States Against Un-American
  and Subversive Activities (report to accompany H. R. 9490), August 22, 1950.
                           —                                   —
House Report No. 2847 Proceedings Against Julius Emspak report (citing
  Julius Emspak), August         1950.
House Report No. 2848 — Proceedings Against Steve Nelson — report
                                 10,
                                                                         Steve
                                                                       (citing
                         1950.
  Nelson), August      10,
                          —                              —
House Report No. 2849 Proceedings Against Philip Bart report             Philip
                                                                      (citing
  Bart), August      1950.
                     10,
                           —
House Report No. 2855 Proceedings Against James         J.      —
                                                         Matles report           (citing
  James                            1950.
            Matles), August
            J.
                           —      11,
House Report No. 2856 Proceedings Against Thomas             J.        —
                                                            Fitzpatrick report
          Thomas                             1950.
House Report No. 2857 — Proceedings Against Thomas Quinn— report
  (citing             Fitzpatrick), August
                      J.                       11,
                                                                                (citing
  Thomas Quinn), August          1950.
House Report No. 2858 — Proceedings Against Frank Panzino — report
                                 11,
                                                                                 (citing
  Frank Panzino), August          1950.
House Report No. 2859 — Proceedings Against Ralph Tokunaga— report
                                 11,
                                                                                 (citing
  Ralph Tokunaga), August           1950.
House Report No. 2860 — Proceedings Against Charles Fujimoto—report
                                   11,
                                                                                 (citing
  Charles Fujimoto), August          1950.
House Report No. 2861 — Proceedings Against D wight James Freeman— report
                                       11,

          Dwight James Freeman), August       1950.
House Report No. 2862 — Proceedings Against Esther Bristow— report
  (citing                                       11,
                                                                                 (citing
  Esther Bristow), August         1950.
House Report No. 2863 — Proceedings Against Rachel Saiki — report
                                  11,
                                                                        Rachel
                                                                      (citing

House Report No. 2864 — Proceedings Against John Reinecke— report
  Saiki), August      1950.
                     11,
                                                                                 (citing
  John Reinecke), August
House Report No. 2865 — Proceedings Against Ernest Arena— report
                                 1950.
                                 11,
                                                                        Ernest
                                                                      (citing

House Report No. 2866 — Proceedings Against Koichi Imori report
  Arena), August       1950.
                      11,
                                                         —              Koichi
                                                                      (citing
                       1950.
House Report No. 2867 — Proceedings Against Denichi Kimoto— report
  Imori), August      11,
                                                                                (citing
^Denichi Kimoto), August           1950.
House Report No. 2868 — Proceedings Against Pearl Freeman— report
                                  11,
                                                                                 (citing
                                 1950.
House Report No. 2869 — Proceedings Against Marshall McEuen —report
  Pearl Freeman), August         11,
                                                                                 (citing
  Marshall McEuen), August           1950.
House Report No. 2870 — Proceedings Against Ruth Ozaki —report
                                       11,
                                                                          Ruth
                                                                       (citing
                        1950.
  Ozaki), August      11,
                           —                                   —
House Report No. 2871 Proceedings Against Stephen Murin report (citing
                                 1950.
House Report No. 2872 — Proceedings Against Jack Hall — report
  Stephen Murin), August         11,
                                                                          Jack
                                                                       (citing
                     1950.
  Hall), August      11,
                          —                              —
House Report No. 2873 Proceedings Against Frank Silva report (citing Frank
  Silva),   August   11, 1950.
      REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                        37

House Report No. 2874   — Proceedings Against Jack Kawano—report        Jack         (citing
  Kawano), August 11,    1950.
House Report No. 2875    — Proceedings Against John Akana—report        John         (citing
  Akana), August       1950.
House Report No. 2876 — Proceedings Against Yukio Abe — report
                            11,
                                                                       Yukio     (citing
                    1950.
House Report No. 2877— Proceedings Against Yasuki Arakaki— report
  Abe), August        11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Yasuki Arakaki), August         1950.
House Report No. 2878 — Proceedings Against Edward Hong— report
                                          11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Edward Hong), August         1950.
House Report No. 2879 — Proceedings Against Kameo Ichimuri — report
                                     11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Kameo Ichimuri), August         1950.
House Report No. 2880— Proceedings Against Douglas Inouye— report
                                           11,
                                                                                           (citing
                                  1950.
House Report No. 2881 — Proceedings Against Levi Kealoha— report
  Douglas Inouye), August                 11,
                                                                        Levi         (citing
                         1950.
House Report No. 2882 — Proceedings Against Adele Kensinger— report
  Kealoha), August            11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Adele Kensinger), August        1950.
House Report No. 2883 — Proceedings Against Benjamin Kaahawinui — report
                                          11,


  (citing Benjamin Kaahawinui), August           1950.
House Report No. 2884 — Proceedings Against Frank Kalua— report
                                                           11,
                                                                      Frank      (citing
                       1950.
House Report No. 2885 — Proceedings Against Yoshita Marumo — report
  Kalua), August        11,
                                                                                           (citing,
  Yoshita Marumo), August          1950.
House Report No. 2886 — Proceedings Against Robert Murasaki— report
                                            11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Robert Murasaki), August          1950.
House Report No. 2887— Proceedings Against Robert McElrath — report
                                            11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Robert McElrath), August         1950.
House Report No. 2888 —-Proceedings Against Julian Napuunoa —report
                                            11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Julian Napuunoa), August           1950.
House Report No. 2889— Proceedings Against Tadashi (Castner) Ogawa —report
                                             11,

          Tadashi (Castner) Ogawa), August            1950.
House Report No. 2890— Proceedings Against Hideo Okada — report
  (citing                                                         11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Hideo Okada), August         1950.
House Report No. 2891 — Proceedings Against Wilfred Oka —report
                                     11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Wilfred Oka), August       1950.
House Report No. 2892 —Proceedings Against Jeanette Nakama Rohrbough —
                                    11,

                 Jeanette Nakama Rohrbough), August         1950.
House Report No. 2893 — Proceedings Against Mitsuo Shimizu — report
  report    (citing                                                     11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Mitsuo Shimizu), August         1950.
House Report No. 2894 — Proceedings Against Frank Takahashi —report
                                          11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Frank Takahasi), August         1950.
House Report No. 2895 — Proceedings Against Shigeo Takemoto — report
                                           11,
                                                                                           (citing
                                     1950.
House Report No. 2896— Proceedings Against Ralph Vossbrink —report
  Shigeo Takemoto), August                   11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Ralph Vossbrink), August         1950.
House Report No. 2897— Proceedings Against Thomas Yagi —report
                                            11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Thomas Yagi), August         1950.
House Report No. 2898 — Proceedings Against Giovanni Rossi Lomanitz —report
                                      11,

          Giovanni Rossi Lomanitz), August          1950.
House Report No. 2899 — Proceedings Against David Joseph Bohm —report
  (citing                                                        11,
                                                                                           (citing
  David Joseph Bohm), August            1950.
House Report No. 2900 — Proceedings Against Irving David Fox —report
                                                   11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Irving David Fox), August        1950.
House Report No. 2901 — Proceedings Against Clarence Hiskey— report
                                            11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Clarence Hiskey), August        1950.
House Report No. 2902 — Proceedings Against Frank Hashmall— report
                                           11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Frank Hashmall), August        1950.
House Report No. 2903 — Proceedings Against Talmadge Raley —report
                                          11,
                                                                                           (citing

House Report No. 2904 — Proceedings Against Esther Tice— report
  Talmadge Raley), August         1950.   11,
                                                                      Esther     (citing
                     1950.
House Report No. 2905 — Proceedings Against Marcel Scherer— report
  Tice), August       11,
                                                                                           (citing
  Marcel Scherer), August       1950.
House Report No. 2906 — Proceedings Against Mrs. Louise Berman— report
                                      11,

          Mrs. Louise Berman), August         1950.
House Report No. 2907— Proceedings Against Pasquale Leonard James Branca—
  (citing                                                11,

  report (citing      Pasquale Leonard James Branca), August             11, 1950.
38    REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                          —                                        —
House Report No. 3123 Report on The National Lawyers Guild Legal Bulwark
  of the Communist Party, September 17, 1950.
100 Things You Should Know About Communism Series —        in the U. S. A.
  —  and Religion     —
                     and Education     —
                                    and Labor     —
                                                and Government and Spot-
  light on Spies, December 1, 1950.
                                                                   —
Report on The National Committee To Defeat the Mundt Bill A Communist
  Lobby, December 7, 1950.
  The committee, during            the year 1950, has   filled   184,570 requests
for publications printed      and released during the second session       of the
Eighty- first Congress.
  The publications listed below, originally released in 1949, were
reprinted and 15,500 copies were allocated to the committee for
distribution:
House Report No. 1951     — Report on the American Slav Congress and associated
  organizations, April 26, 1950.
House Report No. 1952     —
                          -Report on Atomic Espionage (Nelson Weinberg and
  Hiskey- Adams cases), April 26, 1950.
                          —
House Report No. 1953 Report on the Congress of American Women, April 26,
  1950.
House Report No. 1954— Review of the Scientific and Cultural Conference for
  World Peace arranged by the National Council of the Arts, Sciences and
  Professions, and held in New York City, March 25, 26, and 27, 1949, April 26,
  1950.

   Approximately 98,000 copies of these reprints and of other material
released in previous years have been distributed by the committee
during the past year.
   In addition, the committee received and distributed a large number
of copies of the Conference Report (H. Rept. No. 3112 to accompany
                                            —
H. R. 9490) and of Public Law 831 An act to protect the United
States against certain un-American and subversive activities by
requiring registration of Communist organizations, and for other
purposes. Numerous requests from organizations and individuals are
being received daily for copies of this new law and all reports con-
nected with     it.

  The demand for our                              You Should Know
                              publication, 100 Things
About Communism, is         very large. As mentioned in our 1949
                              still
annual report, of the 250,000 copies of this series authorized to be
reprinted through House Concurrent Resolution 52 of this Congress,
one-half, or 125,000 copies were allocated to the Members of the
House through the folding room. A request in the form of a letter
was sent to each Member asking that any surplus copies of his allot-
ment be turned over to us. Approximately 10,000 copies were received
from this source but, through the year, requests from the various
Members who had exhausted their quota, far exceeded this small
supply.   By September of this year, out* supply was completely
exhausted. A revised edition was prepared and released for distribu-
tion on December 1, 1950. However, the supply of this publication
is at present far from sufficient to meet the
                                               large number of requests
which are being received daily.
   The following letters from various sections of the country are typical
of many thousands received by this office through the year 1950:
                               OlHAMBER OF COMMERCE, HARLAN COUNTY,
                                             Harlan, Ky., December 6, 1950.
  Ihave just come from a conference and want to report to you that the Harlan
County School System is using the pamphlet "100 Things You Should Know
About Communism" as a text in sociology and other classes.
        REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                      39

                                             Dallas, Tex., November 14, 1950.
   You might be         interested to   know about
                                             the interest in your document One
Hundred Things You Should Know About Communism. Some time ago I sent
for a copy of this booklet, and after reading it sent for 50 more copies which I
distributed among the young people (ages 20-30) of our church.        One fellow
became so interested that he showed the booklet to an executive of the Dallas
Vocation School who in turn sent for more copies and held daily sessions using
this booklet as a textbook.  There was an attendance of some 600 men and every
student was informed by the instructor, it was reported to me.

                                         Cleveland, Ohio, November 20, 1950.
   In our company, we are carrying on a series of employee educational programs
designed to acquaint them with current economic problems in America.
   Your booklet One Hundred Things You Should Know About Communism is an
excellent source of information on these subjects.

                                       Fort Wayne, Ind., December 4, 1950.
   May we have 100 copies of the following publication for class room use: One
Hundred Things You Should Know About Communism in the United States of
America.
                                         Seattle, Wash., December 11, 1950.
  A   friendshowed to me today a copy of the bulletin, One Hundred Things You
Should Know About Communism. I wish that a copy of this could be placed in
the hands of every member of our student body and faculty.   We have 160 mem-
bers of our student body, and 15 members on the faculty and office staff. That
would be a total of 175. I do not know how many of that number you feel that
you can spare. Please send to us as many copies of that bulletin as you can.
                                                                    *

                                               Petersburg, Va. November            13, 1950.
  The pastor      ofMemorial Methodist Church, Petersburg, Va., desires 100 copies
of the leaflet,   One Hundred Things You Should Know About Communism.

                                                TEAnECK, N.   J.,       November   21, 1950.
  Please send      me  your earliest convenience, 75 free copies of the pamphlet
                        at
called One Hundred Things You Should Know About Communism.
   We are studying the unit on Communism in America in our eleventh and
twelfth grade classes, and I would very much like to have my classes get some
first-hand information of the work done in this field by your committee.

                                                                November           10, 1950.
  This office not long ago acquired a copy of the booklet, One Hundred Things
You Should Know About Communism, prepared and released by your com-
mittee in 1949.    This booklet has been an invaluable supplement to the Armed
Forces talks on communism prepared for the Defense Department's information
and education program.
   Due to the very large turn-over in military personnel caused by the United
Nations activity in Korea and the expansion of the armed services, there are
many soldiers at Fort Benning, mainly Reserves recalled to active duty, who have
not been too well indoctrinated in the dangers, objectives, and activities of inter-
national communism, or the present and future results of these activities.
  We desire to present to each unit at Fort Benning as much material as possible
relating to the subject of communism, and we would like to include in this library
on communism (we might more aptly say "library on anticommunism") at least
one copy of the booklet, One Hundred Things You Should Know About Com-
munism.
  Is the booklet still available for distribution, is it distributed free, or is there
a price for it, and if so, how much? We would like to acquire 500 copies.

                             United States Naval Ordnance Test Station,
                                                  West Coast, December 12, 1950.
  Please forward to       me
                        the series of booklets entitled One Hundred Things You
Should Know About Communism. I understand there are five of these booklets
touching upon various aspects of communistic activities.
   These booklets to be used as part of the training of the security force at this
installation. Any other literature suitable for this purpose would be appreciated.
40     REPORT OF THE, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  We take this opportunity to thank the Members of the House, the
Senate, and other congressional committees, for making available to
us other documents on subversive activities. Several hundreds of
these publications have been distributed through this office during
the past year.
  Approximately 30,000 copies of publications released by this com-
mittee have been sold through the Government Printing Office during
the year 1950.
  Bequests for information on subversive activities has far exceeded
our supply and requests by mail have continued to pile up in this office.
  The following publications: One Hundred Things You Should Know
About Communism series; Citations, which deals with Communist
fronts; Report No. 209, Eightieth Congress, which proves the Com-
munist Party is an agent of a foreign power; and a report on commu-
nism in labor unions, have been requested by various agencies of the
Government,    schools, colleges civic, religious, and patriotic organiza-
                                ;


tions in far greater numbers than our supply will allow us to fill.
  We   recommend that these publications be printed in sufficient
numbers to allow us to fill all requests to organizations or citizens who
are seeking to familiarize themselves with the deadly menace of
communism.
  To comply with the above recommendation it may become necessary
to amend the Printing Act which deals with the printing of Govern-
ment documents for free distribution.

                      Files of the Committee

   The committee has continued to add to its vast storehouse of
information concerning the programs and aims of subversive organi-
zations and the activities of individuals connected with such groups.
The files of the committee, which have been consulted by thousands
of Government officials and agents, contain documentary evidence
and original data collected by the committee during its 12 years of
diligent investigation and inquiry into subversive activities in all
spheres of American life. This voluminous reference collection con-
stitutes an unexcelled and ever-growing source of information and
irreplaceable documentary evidence.         More than 300,000 pieces of
valuable new material have been classified, indexed, and added to
the collection during the year.
   The growth in the volume of information and source material
throughout the 12 years of the committee's existence has been paral-
leled by wider use of reference facilities.  This use reached a new peak
in 1950.   Factors contributing to this peak were the scope of the
committee's investigations throughout the year, the lengthened visits
of accredited agents from investigative units of the armed services
and various Government agencies in connection with the loyalty
program for Federal employees and security checks, increased use of
reference services by Members of Congress, and the grave concern of
the American people and their leaders, now faced with the necessity
of holding the line for the free world against the openly revealed
Communist goal of world conquest. The 1950 peak is indicative of
unprecedented use of the reference collections, files of exhibit material,
and original data compiled by the committee as the Nation mobilizes
for defense.
     REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                 41

  During the past 12 years, some 1,300 witnesses have testified in
public and executive hearings held by the committee.   A huge volume
of evidence has been submitted in support of this testimony.       The
committee has acquired vast files of source material documenting
the 7 1 reports and pamphlets which have been issued during the past
12 years.
  The committee has made readily available, as a reference facility,
a collection of lists of signers of Communist Party election petitions,
obtained from original petitions or photostatic copies of original
petitions which contain 363,119 signatures for various years in
20 States. Its reference collection includes information and docu-
mentary evidence collected by staff investigators, official records
obtained from other agencies, and data supplied by law-enforcement
agencies.  A voluminous collection of propaganda organs and pam-
phlets, issued by subversive groups, dating from 1923, has been
acquired.
   The committee's continuing study of Communist activity since
1938 has resulted in a voluminous collection of information concerning
the leaders, programs, and aims of an entrenched potential fifth
column made up of the 54,000 members of the Communist Party
and its half million followers, and their increasing efforts in behalf of
the forces of international communism.      The committee has unearthed
information concerning the activities and methods of foreign agents
intent on missions of propaganda, espionage, and sabotage.            This
information will serve as a valuable tool in the protection of our country
against espionage and sabotage from within in this period of national
emergency.
   The increasing flow of information and source material and the
growing use of reference facilities by both staff members and liaison
agents from other groups have made the problem of space a pressing
one.   During the past 2 years, material has been consolidated, shifted,
and rearranged so that maximum use has been made of the storage
and working space available. The problem of space has made the
overcrowding of irreplaceable material inevitable while each day brings
new material of value to the collection. With the limitation of space,
the filing of new material has become a time-consuming task rather
than a quickly accomplished routine one, and it has been impossible
to keep all material readily accessible.   This, of necessity, has resulted
in a slowing up of services in some instances.        The preservation of
irreplaceable documents and source material acquired by the commit-
tee in readily accessible form is of utmost importance in view of the
constant demand for examination of such exhibits.
   Staff members and visiting agents alike have been hampered by lack
of working space.     While the committee has always endeavored to
render the utmost aid to other investigative agencies in their use of its
reference facilities, the limitation of space has made it necessary to
restrict one or more agencies as to the number of agents assigned to
work in the reference section for the full day. Because of this limita-
tion, the committee has been forced to close the section to outside
 agents for one afternoon each week in order that staff members might
have room for filing new material and restoring to the files exhibits
 used during the week. Some representatives of other agencies have
 worked throughout the day in an adjacent hall as a result of the
 space problem. Additional room must be found for both storage space
42    REPORT OF THEi COMMITTEE ON UN- AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

and working space     for staff members and visitors if the committee is
to keep its valuable reference facilities readily available, meet the
increasing requests for research work and information, and render
efficient service to other mvestigative groups.
   Reference facilities have been in constant use throughout the year
by staff members in connection with the widespread investigations
of the committee.      Dossiers and reports have been compiled from
information on file for the use of committee members and staff investi-
gators. An average of more than 300 exhibits have been charged out
each month for the use of staff members and, in special cases, to
representatives of other agencies engaged in investigative work.
No count is kept of the number of exhibits, periodicals, and other
material consulted in the reference division throughout each day
where such material is in constant use.
   The consolidated card files of the committee now contain more than
half a million card references which serve as an index to source material
on file. Some 75,000 cards were added to the collection during 1950.
A  total of 234 pamphlets received during the year were cataloged and
added to the collection of 5,300. This specialized collection includes
hundreds of publications of the Communist Party and its front
organizations, and has been widely used by staff members throughout
the year. A number of old pamphlets have been recataloged.
  Staff members have compiled indexes to the 2,105 pages of testimony
presented by the 147 witnesses who testified in public hearings held
by the committee and the seven reports issued in 1950. These
indexes contain 1,650 references to individuals and 1,150 references to
organizations.   Indexes to public hearings held by the committee
during the past 12 years and the 71 reports issued during this same
period contain a total of 54,528 references to individuals and 12,914
references to organizations.
  Individual files have been maintained on some 4,000 leaders of the
Communist Party and its front organizations and leaders of Fascist
groups. Additions have been made to the reference collection of
hearings held by other agencies investigating subversive activities
and reports issued by these groups, and to other reference collections
pertinent to the work of the committee.
  Staff members have continued to index and add to the files about
1,000 issues of Communist publications and other periodicals and
newspapers each month. Issues of more than 675 publications are
now on file, with issues of more than 90 periodicals published by the
Communist Party and its various front organizations included in the
collection.
   The files of the committee have been open to accredited agents of
the executive department and have been widely used for security
checks.   In the Executive order, signed by the President on March
21, 1947, which prescribes procedures for administration of the loyalty
program for Federal employees, the files of the Committee on Un-
American Activities are listed as one of the pertinent sources of infor-
mation to be checked in determining the loyalty of employees and
applicants for employment.
   From January 1 through December 31, 1950, accredited represent-
atives of Government agencies made 3,600 visits to the files section,
checking reference sources for information concerning more than half
a million persons. Visitors have made more requests to examine
     REPORT OF       C]lE    COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES     43

source material than in previous years. Throughout the year, an
average of eight liaison agents have been assigned to work in the
reference section for the entire day. Visits of other agents have
ranged from short periods to a full day.
   Every effort has been made to facilitate the work of accredited
agents who make their own checks of the consolidated card-record
files and committee publications.  Staff members have been available
at all times to furnish reference material requested and answer the
numerous inquiries which arise in the course of such checks.
   During the year 1950, reference collections of the committee were
consulted by representatives of various investigative units of the
following agencies:
      Bureau of the Census
      Central Intelligence Agency
      Department of Agriculture
      Department of the Air Force
      Department of the Army-
      Department of Commerce
      Department of the Interior
      Department of Justice
      Department of Labor
      Department of the Navy
      Department of State
      Department of the Treasury
      Displaced Persons Commission
      Economic Cooperation Administration
      Federal Bureau of Investigation
      General Services Administration
      Metropolitan Police Department
      National Security and Resources Board
      Securities   and Exchange Commission
      United States Civil Service Commission
      United States Coast' Guard
      United States Secret Service

  During 1950,      staff   members answered some 2,600 requests made by
Members   of Congress for information concerning 5,167 individuals
and 1,917 organizations. Requests made by Members of Congress
during 1950 for information concerning individuals were double those
made in 1949, when 2,473 reports on individuals were compiled.
Three times as many requests for information concerning organizations
were made by Members of Congress in 1950 as in 1949, when 597
reports were made on the activities of various groups.
  Reports prepared for Members of Congress included all information
found in public records, files, and publications of the committee con-
cerning individuals or organizations.     The length of such reports
ranged from  1 to 80 typewritten pages. These compilations require
constant research by staff members and grow in length as more
material becomes available each year.
  Staff members have endeavored to meet all of the increasing de-
mands made upon    reference facilities throughout the year despite
handicaps imposed by limitations of both storage and working space.

                                       o

