
                                                      Union Calendar No. 440
!3d   Congress, 2d Session                                       House Report No.   1   192


                                                           a^'               I




                    ANNUAL REPORT
                                     OF THE

rOMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN
                             ACTIVITIES
                       FOR THE YEAR                        1953




                                 FEBRUARY      6,   1954
                                 (Original release date)




                             —
           February 8, 1954. Committed to the Committee of the Whole House
                   on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed




                             Prepared and released by the

COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                   WASHINGTON, D.C
                                  CONTENTS
                                                                             Page
Foreword                                                                        1
Communist methods of infiltration (Education)                                  8
Investigation of Communist activilies in the Los Angeles area                 23
Communist methods of infiltration (Government-labor)                          55
Investigation of Communist activities in the New York City area               57
Investigation of Communist activities in the Columbus, Ohio, area              76
Investigation of Communist activities in the Albany, N, Y., area               80
Soviet schedule for war    —
                          1955                                                 92
     Lt. Franciszek Jarecki                                                    93
     Dr. Marek Stanislaw Korowicz                                              93
Religion                                                                       95
     Jack Richard McJVIichael                                                  97
     G. Bromley Oxnam                                                          99
Investigation '''' Communist activities in the Philadelphia, Pa., area        100
Investigation Oi Communist activities in the San Francisco area               103
Consumers' Union                                                              127
Rules of procedure                                                            128-
Files   and reference   service                                               132
Publications                                                                  134
Past recommendations                                                          136
    Subsequent action taken by Congress or e.\ecutive agencies on past
        recommendations                                                       144
Recommendations based upon investigations and hearings in the year 1953.      157
Appendix                                                                      159
                                                                         V
                         Public        Law       601,   Y9th Congress

   The legislation under which the House Committee on Un-American
Activities operates is Public Law 601, 79th Congress [1946], chapter
753, 2d session, which provides              :




  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Repretentatives of the United Btateg
                                   * * *
of America in Congress assembled,

            PART 2—RULES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES



       •
     17.
                     **«***  SEC. 121.



           Committee on Un-American
                                             Rule
                                         STANDING COMMITTEES


                                         Activities, to consist of nine

                                          Rule XI
                                                        X


                                                                          members.



                           POWEKS AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEES


     (q)   (1)   Committee on Un-American          Activities.
     (A) Un-American     activities.
   (2) Ttie Committee on Un-American Activities, as a vphole or by subcommittee,
is authorized to make from time to time investigations of (i) the extent, character,
and objects of im-American propaganda activities in the United States, (ii) the
diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda
that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacks the
principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution, and (iii)
all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress in any necessary
remedial legislation.
   The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the House (or to the
Clerk of the House if the House is not in session) the results of any such investi-
gation, together with such I'ecommendations as it deems advisable.
   For the purpose of any such investigation, the Committee on Un-American
Activities, or any subcommittee thereof, is authorized to sit and act at such
times and places within the United States, whether or not the House is sitting,
has recessed, or has adjourned, to hold such hearings, to require the attendance
of such witnesses and the production of such books, papers, and documents, and
to take such testimony, as it deems necessary.     Subpenas may be issued under
the signature of the chairman of the committee or any subcommittee, or by any
member designated by any such chairman, and may be served by any person
designated by any such chairman or member.
           vi
        •           *«••••
                     RULES ADOPTED BY THE 83D CONGRESS
                         House Resolution   5.




                                        RtTLE
                                                 January



                                                 X
                                                           3,   1953




                               STANDING COMMITTEES
  1. There shall be elected by the House, at the commencement of each Oon-
gress, the following standing committees     :




   (q)

       *******
            Committee on Un-American   Activities, to consist of nine



                                       Rule XI
                         POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEES
                                                                        members.




  17.  Committee on Un-American Activities.
  (a)   Un-American Activities.
  (b)   The Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole or by subcommittee,
Is authorized to malie from time to time, investigations of (1) the extent, char-
acter, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States,
 (2) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American prop-
aganda that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and
attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitu-
tion, and (3) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress
in any necessary remedial legislation.
   The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the House (or to the
Clerk of the House if the House is not in session) the results of any such investi-
gation, together with such recommendations as it deems advisable.
   For the purpose of any such investigation, the Committee on Un-American
Activities, or any subcommittee thereof, is authorized to sit and act at such times
and places within the United States, whether or not the House is sitting, has
recessed, or has adjourned, to hold such hearings, to require the attendance
of such witnesses and the production of such books, papers, and documents, and
to take such testimony, as it deems necessary. Subpenas may be issued under
the signature of the chairman of the committee or any subcommittee, or by any
member designated by such chairman, and may be served by any person desig-
nated by any such chairman or member.
        ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
          UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES FOR THE
                    YEAR 1953
                                FOREWORD
   The annual report for the calendar year 1953 has been prepared by
the House Committee on Un-American Activities in accordance with
the provisions of the law establishing the committee, which law states :
  The Committee on Un-American Activities shall report to the House (or to the
Clerk of the House if the House is not in session) the results of any such investi-
gation, together with such recommendations as it deems advisable.
  This foreword is prepared to furnish an outline for the report, and
the matters referred to therein are more fully elaborated upon in other
sections of the report.
  During 1953, the committee held hearings in Washington, D. C. ;
Los Angeles, Calif. New York City Albany, N. Y. Cokimbus, Ohio
                       ;                   ;                 ;                    ;


Lansing, Mich.; Philadelphia, Pa.; and San Francisco, Calif. The
committee held 154 sessions, which total excludes business meetings.
A  total of 280 witnesses were heard in open and executive sessions.            A
greater number of witnesses heard during 1953 cooperated with the
committee in furnishing valuable information relative to their personal
knowledge of subversive activities. However, as has been the case in
former years, a majority of the witnesses subj^enaed refused to affirm
or deny their alleged membership in the Communist Party or to answer
any questions relative to their purported activities in or on behalf of the
conspiracy. In almost all cases, noncooperative witnesses invoked
the provision of the fifth amendment, claiming that answers to the
questions might tend to incriminate them. In no instance of which
the committee has knowledge has a witness appearing before and
cooperating with the committee relative to his past membership or
association with subversive organizations been subsequently prosecuted
because of his testimony.
    A considerable amount of testimony was received by the committee
from individuals in the field of education who were former members
of the Communist Party. This testimony indicates beyond any ques-
tion of a doubt that the Communist conspiracy made determined and,
in many instances, successful infiltration efforts in that vital area.
From witnesses testifying under oath before the committee, approxi-
mately 100 names of teachers, past and present, who were members
of the Communist Party, were received. In this connection, it should
be pointed out that there was no instance in which the committee
endeavored in any way to ascertain the curricula of any school or to
in any manner examine classroom procedures or the teaching methods
of an educator. The focal point of the investigation into the general
area of education was to the individual who had been identified as a
past or present member of the Communist Party.
                                                                           1
2       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   It is apparent that in the field of education, as in other areas in which
the Communists have exerted their efforts to infiltrate and dominate,
the measure of Communist success is minor when related to the many
thousands of loyal American teachers who have refused to become
robots or mechanical rabbits at the beck and call of the conspirators.
However, the danger inherent in the presence of even a few Communist
Party members in teaching capacities in American educational insti-
tutions has been made clearly apparent in the testimony received from
educators who were formerly in the Communist Party.
   The committee conducted further hearings in Los Angeles, Calif.,
during the year, continuing earlier hearings held in 1951 and 1952.
Information and identifications brought out at the earlier hearings in
Los Angeles, as well as elsewhere, were developed and additional
witnesses were called. Wliile the committee's hearings during 19o3
dealt in large part with the nature, extent, and objectives of the
Communist efforts to infiltrate the general areas of entertainment and
education, the hearings disclosed considerable new information con-
cerning infiltration of the vital defense industries.
   For the first time in many years, the committee held hearings in
New York City. During the hearings which related to subversive
infiltration into the field of entertainment, it was found that many of
the persons named as having been members of the Communist Party
either resided in or were employed in New York City. An an-
nouncement was made well in advance that the hearings were to be
held in New York in order that any individual who had been pre-
viously named might contact the committee to clarify his present
status.    Several persons did so contact the committee, and the com-
mittee gained additional information of subversive activities through
the testimony of these witnesses. Also heard in New York City was
Mrs. Dorothy K. Funn, who furnished information concerning Com-
munist infiltration of New York public schools, the National Negro
Congress, and of a Communist cell among legislative representatives
of certain unions and other organizations in Washington, D. C.
    A subcommittee in New York City called several witnesses in the
labor field who refused to affirm or deny Communist Party member-
ship.    The same subcommittee received testimony from two former
members of the Communist Party which identified the Rev. Jack
Richard McMichael, of Upper Lake, Calif., as a one-time member of
the Communist Party. McMichael was subsequently subpenaed and
appeared before the committee. He denied present or past member-
ship in the Communist Party, and, in light of the conflict in testimony,
the matter has been referred to the Department of Justice for con-
sideration as to possible perjury.
   The subcommittee received considerable testimony relative to the
efforts of the Communist Party to infiltrate religious groups.          This
testimony was furnished by witnesses who have been called by the
Government to testify against Communist leaders charged with vio-
lation of the Smith Act. The committee was criticized in some
religious quarters for releasing the testimony having to do with
                                                                         the
infiltration of church groups and institutions, but it must be under-
stood that the committee cannot place itself in a position of coaching
witnesses or attempting to add or detract from the voluntary testimony
being given under oath, no matter how unpopular to any group such
testimony might be. The only thing that can be done by the committee
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                3

in such instances is to submit the testimony for consideration of
perjury prosecution, if it is found to be false. The committee has
found no basis for such consideration in the New York testimony.
  The subcommittee in New York City also received testimony relat-
ing to the initial efforts and subsequent success of the Communist
Party in infiltrating the Nation's waterfronts and shipping.
  In Albany, N. Y., a subcommittee heard testimony relating to Com-
munist infiltration of that vital defense area. Testimony was re-
ceived from a former Communist, who is a citizen of Canada, relative
to Communist plans for sabotage of the Marshall plan and the At-
lantic Pact.   The testimony of this witness, Patrick Walsh, served to
highlight the success of the Communist Party in its infiltration of
waterfronts and shipping.
  Patrick Walsh was not the only witness of foreign nationality
heard by the committee during the year. One of the duties with
which the committee is charged is the investigation of "the diffusion
within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda
that is instigated from foreign countries or of domestic origin and
attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our
Constitution." Testimony was received from a former Slovakian
Army officer who, for the purpose of personal security, used the
assumed name of Colonel Bukar during the hearing. This witness
disclosed that, on the pretext that Great Britain was gearing for war
against the Soviet Union in 1955, the Soviets were preparing for an
offensive prior to that time.
  Lt. Francizek Jarecki, a young Polish jet pilot, testified before the
committee, following his escape from Poland to Denmark. He fur-
nished the committee with information relating to the false propa-
ganda that the Polish Communist Government was spreading concern-
ing the United States attitude toward the Polish people. Through the
testimony of Dr. Marek Stanislaw Korowicz, the committee received
further testimony concerning the Communist Polish Government's
relations with the international Communist conspiracy and its true
feelings toward this country.     Dr. Korowicz came to this country as
the Polish alternate delegate to the United Nations. Wlien the first
opportunity presented itself, he fled from the constant surveillance,
amounting to near imprisonment, exercised within the Polish delega-
tion.   Dr. Korowicz confirmed what many people have suspected when
he testified that the Polish delegation operated in complete accord with
the Soviet delegation as a bloc against the United States within the
United Nations.
  The House committee on Un-American Activities has remained vigi-
lant to determine whether there are any individuals now employed by
the United States Government who are present or past members of
subversive organizations. In the hearings conducted by the subcom-
mittee in Albany, N. Y., testimony was received from two former
members of the Communist Party that the Commissioner of the Fed-
eral Mediation and Conciliation Service in Cincinnati, Ohio, had been
known to them as a member of the Communist Party. In the investi-
gation of this matter it was determined that this Federal employee,
James F. McNamara, had, on the basis of previous investigation by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, been given three loyalty hear-
ings to determine his suitability to continue in Government service.
On all three occasions McNamara had denied that he had ever been a
4    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN            ACTIVITIES

member   of the Communist Party and, in the face of FBI information
to the contrary, he was cleared. Shortly after he had been served with
a subpena to appear before the committee, McNamara submitted his
resignation to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. When
he did appear, McNamara admitted that he had been a member of the
Communist Party and had broken with it some years ago. The com-
mittee believes it to be a fact that James F. McNamara did break with
the Communist Party as he stated under oath. However, his case
serves as an example of the continuing necessity for the work being
performed by the House Committee on Un-American Activities. The
Federal Bureau of Investigation had conducted a thorough inquiry
and had in due course reported the results of its investigation to the
proper authorities. However, in the face of F. B. I. reports, no fur-
ther steps were taken by the agency concerned, and it was not until in-
vestigation by this committee that the true facts were determined and
McNamara's employment terminated.
   In 1952, the committee held hearings in Philadelphia, Pa,, which
hearings dealt prineipally with subversive infiltration into the vital
defense industries in that area. During November 1953, a subcom-
mittee conducted further hearings which dealt exclusively with the
efforts of the Communist Party to infiltrate the field of education in the
Philadelphia area. In the 3 days of hearings, the subcommittee
called 19 witnesses who were either presently engaged in the teaching
profession or had previously been teachers in Philadelphia. As in
other instances in which the committee questions witnesses concerning
Communist Party membership, the committee's investigation had dis-
closed that each of the witnesses had been a member of the Communist
Party at some previous date. Some of the witnesses who appeared in
Philadelphia refused to affirm or deny present or past membership in
the Communist Party, while the majority of them denied present
membership or membership in the Communist Party since they had
signed the loyalty oath required by the State of Pennsylvania in 1952.
   In December 1953, a subcommittee of the Committee on Un-Ameri-
can Activities held hearings in San Francisco, Calif., which hearings
dealt in large part with the nature, scope and objectives of Communist
infiltration in that vital defense area and center of west coast com-
munications. The committee received valuable testimony from indi-
viduals who had been members of the Communist Party and from
others who had served as undercover agents for the Federal Govern-
ment, reporting on the activities of the Communist Party in the Bay
area.   Of particular significance in the San Francisco hearings was the
effort made by the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's
Union to coerce the committee into calling off the hearings. This
action by union officials of theILWU    in ordering mass-protest demon-
strations in front of the Federal building demonstrated clearly the
element of control exercised by a few individuals, and clearly indicated
the necessity for further investigations in the San Francisco area.
There is reason to believe that, in the event of a national emergency,
such unquestioned authority and control vested in the hands of indi-
viduals who have been identified under oath as past or present mem-
bers of the Communist Party could be used to completely demoralize
and hamper an American defense      effort.
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES             5

  It has been noted  by the House Committee on Un-American Activi-
ties that during the year 1953 there was an expansion in a field of sub-
versive activities within the United States tliat, notwithstanding the
clear and present danger represented by the Communist threat, should
not go unnoticed by the American people or unchecked by Federal
investigative bodies and agencies. There are presently at work within
the United States various and sundry "hate" groups, the leaders of
which, while masking their activities under the guise of patriotism
and devotion to the republican form of Government, are in fact spread-
ing dissension, discord, bigotry, and intolerance. In many instances,
these organizations select ultrapatriotic names and devices to conceal
their true and dangerous purposes. The subjects of the "hate" attacks
are individuals or groups of religious and racial minorities among
American citizens. The committee is by no means unaware of these
activities, and investigation and documentation will proceed to the
end that the individuals concerned may be disclosed for what they
are.   In the opinion of the committee, there are no degrees to sub-
version. It is not sufficient to be simply anti-Communist if one is
anti-American at the same time.
   The first investigation conducted by the Special Committee on Un-
American Activities had as its object the Nazi German-American
Bund. The special committee, however, did not ignore the growing
shadow of the Communist threat, nor is the present committee ignor-
ing the rise of neofascism in the United States. Subversion cannot
be corrected by subversion, no matter if the most patriotic of titles
cloaks       it.

   This annual report of the Committee on Un-American Activities
will reflect the numerous hearings held during the year 1953.    A mere
review of these hearings, however, falls far short of reflecting the full
picture of the work performed by the committee.
   The committee staff has been engaged in numerous investigations
throughout the year, many of which are still miderway. One such
investigation is that presently being conducted in the State of Michi-
gan. The investigation of the efforts and success of subversive infil-
tration in the vital Michigan area commenced prior to hearings held
in Detroit in 1952, and has been carried on continuously since that
time.   The committee had planned to hold hearings in Michigan dur-
ing October 1953, but these were postponed when it was learned that
the Department of Justice intended to institute prosecution of certain
leaders of the Communist Party in Michigan under the provisions of
the Smith xict. In the spirit of cooperation, members of the com-
mittee met with Government attorneys and Federal court judges, and
it was deemed advisable to postpone this committee's hearings until the

completion of the Federal court action or until such time that hearings
would not  affect the action.
   It   anticipated that the hearings in Michigan will proceed at an
        is

early date in 1954, since the Government has completed its presenta-
tion, and the defense of the six Communist leaders
                                                     is scheduled to

commence on January 4, 1954.
  The investigation conducted   in Michigan, as in the majority of the
committee's investigations, has produced evidence and information of
subversive activities reaching into many other areas of the Nation.
Some of the investigative leads developed in Michigan have been
used as a basis for disclosures and testimony in hearings elsewhere.
6           AN]SrUAL REPORT,   COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Therefore, a bare recitation of facts disclosed in public and executive
hearings gives only a partial reflection of the committee's valuable
work. Investigation is necessarily a continuing process. The results
of such investigation by way of public hearings are frequently delayed
for long periods, and this should be taken into consideration in a
proper evaluation of the work of the committee.
   The committee's objectives in its investigations and hearings can
best be defined by a statement made following the completion of the
San Francisco, Calif., hearings, which is as follows             :




  The nature of the testimony adduced during the week of hearings can lead the
committee to one inescapable conclusion, and that is the existence of a wide-
spread Communist infiltration into almost every activity in the bay area. The
actual extent of that infiltration cannot accurately be determined by the facts
presently in the record of the proceedings, but on the basis of similar hearings
previously conducted by the committee in other great cities of the Nation it can
be stated on considerable authority that the total membership of the Communist
Party in this area probably numbered several thousands of persons.
               —                                             —
   However and the committee wishes to stress this point the actual numerical
strength of the Communist conspiracy is not the yardstick by which its power to
inflict irreparable damage on our institutions and our defenses can or should be
measured. A handful of determined Communists in a local labor union can and
will destroy democracy in that union if unretarded by the vigilance of the majority
of union members.
   One Communist faculty member in a school can and will poison the minds and
wither the souls of young students if his activities both on and ofC the campus
are not made the subject of constant scrutiny.
   The myth that the Communist conspiracy constitutes nothing more than the
activities of individuals gathered together for the pursuit of legal political activi-
ties has long since been exploded.     Those who meet in secret under assumed
names for the purpose of fomenting disorder, turmoil, and revolution deserve the
name "conspirators."
   Arrogance, contempt for and vilification of constituted authority are the unmis-
takable hallmarks of the conspiracy and of its agents. Under the guise of pro-
tecting human rights, this conspiracy in fact seeks to destroy them. Against this
organized effort to destroy constitutional government by unconstitutional means
must be arrayed all of the forces and weapons available to a free people.
   This committee is established hy the Congress of the United States and has
been cloaked by that body with wide power under Public Law 601. It is one of
the weapons in the hands of the American people. Who dulls the edge of that
weapon brings joy to the hearts of those whose dedicated task it is to destroy
the Constitution of the United States and place human freedom behind barbed
wire.
   The fifth amendment to the Constitution of the United States is a sacred
privilege, oft abused as it has been during the course of these and other hear-
ings.   In answer to the many citizens of the Bay area who have written to
the committee relative to the use of the amendment by uncooperative wit-
nesses, the committee can only state again that there is presently no legislative
device to meet that misuse; the need for clarifying legislation is cleaily apparent.
Communist directives lay a charge upon Communists and Communist sym-
pathizers to carry the class struggle into courts and hearing rooms, to remain
always on the offensive, and to use whatever devices are necessary to prevent
disclosures which might be harmful to the Communist conspiracy.
   The evidences of this technique were abundantly made clear during the Medina
trial and in subsequent court action stemming from violations of the Smith
Act and other antisubversion legislation. Turmoil in courts and hearings
replaces decorum in the Communist scheme, and dignity becomes an early
casualty to the premeditated tactics of the Communist conspiracy.
   Those familiar with the techniques of the Communist Party have had a
firsthand opportunity to witness communism in action here in this room for the
past .'')
         (lays. Committee members and the staff have been maligned and vilified
in this very room and in paid advertisements inserted in the press.     The motives
and the purposes of the investigation have been misrepresented and sorely
distorted. Charges involving the integrity of the Congress of the United States
and the elected representatives of the American people have been hurled in-
     AjSTNTJAL   report, committee on UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                   7

discriminately and venomously by witnesses using every tactic and evasion to
cover tbeir alleged activities within the Commuuist conspiracy.
  The committee is confident that these efforts to undermine public confidence
in the committee and its work will be as unavailing in the Bay area as they
have proven to be in other cities throughout this country.
  To those witnesses who have given the American people of their own experi-
ence in the Communist conspiracy the committee extends its thanks. Those
who have lived through the lie of communism and have come forward to do
an American duty as they see that duty should have not only the thanks of
the Nation, but the sympathetic understanding of business associates, employers,
and former friends and associates outside of the Communist Party. Scorned
and vilified as they are by former associates within the party, these witnesses
should find understanding among the vast body of loyal American citizens.
They should receive every assistance toward economic, social, and political
rehabilitation consistent with the quality of trustworthiness which marked
their testimony.
  It should be remembered that without the testimony of the hundreds of for-
mer Communists who have severed their ties with the conspiracy and who
have testified fully as to the extent and nature of the activities of the party
there would not today be an ever expanding volume of knowledge and informa-
tion in the hands of the American Congress and available to the American people.
  Eternal vigilance is indeed the price of liberty. Vigilante action is neither
needed nor desirable. The work of tracking down subversion of evei-y type and
of insuring the passage of Federal remedial legislation designed to meet the
threat against human freedom is a charge which must rest upon duly constituted
authority at all levels of government.
  Intelligent and loyal citizens armed with facts of subversion and disloyalty
can render a signal service to the American people by contacting the Federal
Bureau of Investigation or other agencies, the duties of which include investi-
gation and proper evaluation of information.
   The question has been asked as to what purpose is served by the disclosure
of the names of individuals who may long ago have left the conspiracy and since
devoted themselves to home and work in the manner of loyal American citizens.
This is a reasonable question and one deserving of a reasonable answer. The
testimony of a cooperative witness is not tampered with in any way by thia
committee or by its staff. That testimony must stand the cruel test imposed
by the subsequent appearance before the committee of those who are named. It
would be an act of intellectual dishonesty for this committee to add or detract
one name from the list of those whom the witness is prepared to identify under
oath as having been within his own knowledge a member of the conspiracy dur-
ing the period of the witness' own membership. The identity of an individual
having been made in public or executive session, the committee has no alterna-
tive but to place that individual in the witness chair at the earliest possible
moment.
  The decision on the part of a witness as to the nature of his testimony, whether
he will cooperate or not, is not within the authority of the committee to rule
upon. Every member of the Communist Party, past or present, is or was a small
section of a jigsaw puzzle, and each had his role to play. The fact of having
left the conspiracy in no way eradicates or erases his knowledge of events that
transpired during his membership nor of the role he played. The committee
has no way of knowing the status of his membership at present until he is
placed under oath and the information is sought to be elicited.
   Upon the front of a great public building in Washington, D. C, there are
graven on stone the words "The past is prologue." If this is true, and if indi-
viduals insure the future by reference to the past, then it is equally true that
nations under unremitting attack must look to the past in the preparation of
its future defenses.  One missing piece of the vast and forbidding puzzle may
well be in the possession of a former and disillusioned member of the con-
spiracy.   The risk attendant on failure to make adequate and comprehensive
inquiry at every available source is too great to justify the theory that former
Communists should be immune to interrogation. The bank robber, the embez-
zler, or the murderer who leaves the pursuit of crime to take up a quiet existence
in a rural community enjoys no immunity for his past activity, and the stake
of society involved in the transgressions of those who steal physical properties
or money is, while important, as nothing to the activities of those who would
enslave the world.
8       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

    Under                 upon the committee by the House of Repre-
            the charge laid
sentatives,recommendations for remedial legislation are to be made
from time to time. A number of such recommendations have been
made in the past and have subsequently been incorporated into Fed-
eral hxw. The committee notes with interest that the executive branch
of the Government has proposed that witnesses appearing before duly
authorized Government bodies be granted immunity in order that they
may testify fully and freely relative to information in their possession.
The House Committee on Un-American Activities first made this
recommendation to the Congress in its annual report for 1951.
  The executive branch has also proposed that wiretap evidence be
made  admissible in the prosecution of crimes relating to the national
defense of the United States. The House Committee on Un-American
Activities first recommended such legislation in its annual report for
the year 1950 and repeated it in its reports for 1951 and 1952.
  The committee recognizes that there are numerous additional safe-
guards which should be enacted or strengthened before the American
people may be secure with regard to internal security laws and
espionage.
   To the end that the Congress and the American people may have a
better understanding of the work performed by the House Committee
on Un-American Activities, there is set forth in this annual report
the names of many of the witnesses who appeared, as well as the iden-
tity of the individuals named as present or past participants in the
conspiracy to destroy the free world during the course of testimony
taken.   As in the case of any testimony or report, if any individual
so named desires to clarify or correct the report with reference to his
own name, he should communicate immediately with the committee.
          COMMUNIST METHODS OF INFILTRATION
                              (Education)
  At the outset of the 83d Congress, in January 1953, the House
Committee on Un-American Activities announced that it planned to
hold hearings relating to individual members of the teaching pro-
fession, who are present or former members of the Communist Party
and who had been so identified in sworn testimony given by previous
witnesses.  It was clearly set forth at that time, and studiously ad-
hered to subsequently, tliat the investigation and the hearings would
deal solely with individuals so named and would in no way be an
investigation of education or educational institutions. Critics of the
committee, and in some instances, other persons who had not taken
the trouble to get the true facts of the committee's intention, charged
that the committee sought to abridge a fundamental American prin-
ciple
        —academic freedom.
  The published testimony taken to this time relative to individual
educators wlio had been named under oath as past or present mem-
bers of the Communist Party will indicate to any honest and fair
observer that there has been no effort or attempt on the part of the
committee to examine into the text or content of the curriculum of
any insitution, nor is such an investigation contemplated. The com-
mittee has called as witnesses individuals who, either
                                                       presently or in
the past, have engaged in the teaching profession and who
                                                               should,
     ANNUAL REPORT,    COJVIMITTEE   ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES       9

through past experience with subversive organizations, be in a posi-
tion to furnisli the committee with vahiable information.       Fortu-
nately, many of tlie persons called did assist the committee by detail-
ing facts within their own knowledge concerning Communist efforts
to infiltrate and dominate the teaching profession within the United
States.
    The field of education in the United States long ago became a prime
target for the Communists. Perhaps no other area of American life
offers so great an opportunity' for the trained and dedicated Com-
munist agent. As the opportunities for higher education for the
youth of America have expanded, the responsibility and influence
of the teacher has become more and more important. From the day
that a student commences his education, the teacher assumes a col-
lateral responsibility with the parent for the proper training of the
individual.     It is regrettable that in many instances parents are
inclined to place the major burden of responsibility on the teacher,
thus relegating the home and parental influence to a place of second-
ary importance. Obviously, in such cases, the molding of a young
mind becomes the total responsibility of the teacher and, in the selec-
tion of subject matter and by precept and example, the Communist
teacher can and will distort the facts of American life into a hideous
mockery of its true reality. That the Communists in the teaching
profession have been so few is testimony to the fine work being per-
formed by thousands of loyal and dedicated American citizens Vfho
have chosen the teaching profession as their life's work. That a rela-
tively small number of American students have chosen communism
ill
     |)reference to the republican form of government is additional
evidence of the basic and fundamental soundness of American
education.
    Through the course of the committee's hearings and investigations,
there has been developed but little evidence that Communist teachers
endeavored to indoctrinate the students with the Communist philos-
ophy in the classroom. Testimony indicates that such efforts were
in large part confined to extracurricular associations, both on and
off the campus.     In some instances, these associations took the form
of Marxist study groups, from which it was but a short step to more
serious gatherings of a semiclandestine nature and subsequently into
the secret maze of the Communist Party itself.
    The committee, in undertaking an investigation to determine the
scope and measure of success attending Communist efforts to infiltrate
the field of education, studied the activities of well-known Communist
schools such as the Jefferson School of Social Science in New York
and the Abraham Lincoln School in Chicago, as well as the activities
of Communist groups, such as the Labor Youth League, among the
students.
    The committee has in no way endeavored to dictate to any university
employing a person identified as a member of the Communist Party as
to his retention or dismissal.
    The first witness heard publicly by the committee was Prof. Kobert
 Gorham Davis, presently an instructor at Smith College. Dr. Davis
 testified that he had been a member of the Communist Party from
 January 1937 until the fall of 1939. Of particuhxr interest in the
 testimony of Dr. Davis was the reason why he had first joined the
 Communist Party and the reasons why he left it.
          — 54
      47400      2
 10     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                     ACTIVITIES

      Dr. Davis stated   :




    Well, I should say that ideologically there were 3 elements: First, the fact
of the depression.    To my generation it seemed intolerable that men should be
unemployed that food and cotton should be destroyed while people vrere hungry
               ;


in a country as advanced technologically as the United States, and with such
tremendous natural resources. We sought to understand the reason for the
 depression, for the waste of natural resources, and were led because of the
spirit of the thirties to concern ourselves with the Marxist explanation.
   One reason why Marxism appealed to my generation is because we were
                                         —
products of the twenties, educationally a period of uncertainty and skepticism.
                                                —
Marxism seemed to offer a positive solution an affirmative philosophy.            We
also had been taught that the First World War accomplished nothing despite
the 4 years of suffering and slaughter. We were determined that another
fruitless war of that kind should not occur.
   Finally, we were very much aware of the growing menace of Hitlerism, and
it seemed that Hitlerism could be stopped internationally, and a developing
Fascist movement, or what might turn into a Fascist movement in this counti^^,
                                                                      —
could be stopped only by organizing a very broad united front and this the
Communist Party purported to do. They did seem to be taking the lead against
Hitlerism.
   As you remember, this was the period of the movement for collective security
in the League of Nations. This was also the period of the Spanish Civil War,
when the democracies seemed to be fighting against the armed forces of Hitler
and Mussolini in Spain.
   All these influences converging made me feel before I went into the party that
it was uiy idea to aline myself with this leadership.
   I discovered in the 2 years which followed that I had made a mistake, but my
break did not come finally until after the Hitler-Molotov pact, which initiated the
Second World War.
  I leftthen not only because of the shift of the line led me into a position which
was             and morally intolerable, but also because I had such experience
       politically
of tlie intrigues and duplicity that are inseparable from Communist Party
meml)ership with the requirement that one critically defend the Soviet Union,
that as a person of morality and sincerity I could remain in that position no
longer.
  I not only broke with the party, but increasingly in the years that have followed
have  I felt it necessary to fight the influence of the Communist Party in those
areas where I could be most effective.
  Dr. Davis also shed considerable light on the subservience of the
Communist Party   in the United States to the Soviet Union, when he
stated     :




  The  shift of policy after 1939 and the rapidity vrith which the Communist Party
in this country fell in line with the Russian policy, even though they didn't under-
stand it, made it quite clear that they were acting for the Soviet Union that they
                                                                          ;



were in a certain sense Soviet nationalists and not working for the broader in-
terests of the American people.

  One of the principal objectives of the Communist Party, during the
period that Dr. Davis was a member, was the organization and control
of the Teachers' Union. Dr. Davis said          :



  We    worked very hard          up the Teachers' Union in Harvard and to build
                             to build
up teachers' unions generally, and we did tliis with a comparatively clear con-
science, because our objectives, our immediate objectives, were to improve teach-
ing conditions, raise salaries, and so on but also obviously we wished teachers
                                          ;


to take the same position that we (the Communists) took on public questions.

   Dr. Davis furnished an excellent object lesson on how the Com-
munists successfully gain control of groups and organizations in which
they constitute a minority when he explained how the Communists
were able to have their members chosen as delegates to national con-
ventions of the Teachers' Union. He explained in this manner                  :




  One reason why Communists were successful was because in these organiza-
tions all service was voluntary. The teachers were very busy trips were expen-
                                                                ;
           ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                  ACTIVITIES        11

 sive, and very frequently those who offered to go were asked to go because no
 other persons were available, and if a member of the Communist Party offered
 to go, his offer was usually accepted, if he offered to go to the national convention.

   Although the membership of Dr. Davis in the Communist l^rrty
 had been comparatively brief and during a period some years ago, he
 made the observation that might be expected of a man of his educa-
 tional background and experience when he responded to a question as
 to whether a Communist should be allowed to teach in American
 universities        :



   I do not think we should allow the language of liberalism and democracy to be
 used by those who would destroy liberalism and democracy. That is, 1 think the
 Communists necessarily in universities today are dishonest         in   what they   say,
 whereas Aristotle and Plato were honest.
  The committee also had the benefit of the testimony of Daniel J.
Boorstin, presently an instructor at the University of Chicago. Mr.
Boorstin testified that he had been a member of the Communist Party
for a period of about 1 year, terminating his membership in Septem-
ber 1939. Prior to joining the Communist Party in the United States,
Mr. Boorstin stated that he had been a member of a Marxist study
group while a Khodes scholar at Oxford, England. He explained
that out of a group of approximately 70 American students in
England at the time, about 6 of them were members of the same
Marxist study group. It was, therefore, with a Marxist background
that he joined the Communist Party while a part-time teacher and
graduate student at Harvard University in 1938. Mr. Boorstin
also furnished the committee with his reasons for joining the Com-
munist Party, and the process through which he learned of the decep-
tion and distortion of the Communists' claims. He recalled:
   There were a number of circumstances that as I can recall now led me into
the group.   One was that those were the days of the so-called United Front
during which the Communist Party was taking the position of supporting all lib-
eral and progressive groups. Their motto was "Communism Is 20th Century
Americanism" at that time.
  They had also succeeded in blurring the line between themselves and other
groups. Also they were at that time taking a position against anti-Semitism
and against the Nazis, and as a Jew that had a certain appeal to me, naturally.
  Also during that year Granville Hicks was a counselor in American studies,
ami he was a well-known person who had written a book about American litera-
ture.  His presence lent a certain amount of glamor to the group.
  In addition to that there were some old friends of mine who had been inter-
ested in Marxism at Oxford, who were at Harvard at that time, and as friends
of mine they added to the interest of the group.
  It is hard to explain the thing any more clearly than that, sir.   There were
many different things.
  Mr. Boorstin's awakening came in much the same fashion as did that
of Mr. Davis             :




  It was a growing disgust with the way of thinking and the attitudes of people
in the group. The most dramatic event which brought it out into the open was
the Nazi-Soviet Pact, which revealed both the willingness of the Soviet Union
to collaborate with  nazism and the intellectual bankruptcy of the American
Communists who switched their line around according to what the Daily Worker
said.
  As     I recall,   the day after the Nazi-Soviet Pact, or just about then, the Com-
munists denied everything they had been saying for years.
  Granville Hicks, referred to in the testimony of Mr. Boorstin, was
also a witness before the committee and testified as to his member-
12   ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

ship in the Communist Party both before and after the time he was
a counselor of American studies at Harvard University. Mr. Hicks
was a prolific writer for Communist publications during the 1930's.
He had been a member of the Communist Party for about 4 years
and broke abruptly when the Nazi-Soviet Pact was signed. Mr.
Hicks' testimony again pointed up the fact that has been established
                                                             —
in so much of the testimony of former Communist writers the control
exercised over them by the Communist Party,
   One of the witnesses called early in the committee's hearings was
Wendell H. Furry, a professor at Harvard University. Mr. Furry was
called because the committee was aware that he possessed a wealth
of information concerning Communist activities in the New England
area.   It was a disappointment to the committee that, rather than
furnish this information, he chose to refuse to answer questions relat-
ing to his Communist Party membership on the grounds that to do so
might incriminate him. Mr, Furry was offered a second opportunity
to appear before the committee, upon his request, and on that occasion
he modified his testimony to the extent of denying membership for the
past 2 years. He persisted, however, in his refusal to assist the com-
mittee in its efforts to gain further information on the Communist
conspiracy.
   On February 27, 1953, the committee heard the testimony of
Barrows Dunham, a professor at Temple University, in executive ses-
sion. Mr. Dunham refused to answer even the most fundamental
questions, such as the record of his educational background. The com-
mittee voted that the testimony of Mr. Dunham, such as it was, be
released.
   In the 15 years of the committee's existence, its members have been
subjected to unprecedented abuse from some witnesses who have ap-
peared. One of the most abusive and contemptuous to appear was
Abraham Glasser.
   Glasser became an employee of the United States Department of
Justice in December 1935.        The Federal Bureau of Investigation
learned, through a Soviet espionage agent who had been arrested by
Canadian authorities, that during a period in 1938-39 Glasser had
furnished him with information from the files of the Justice Depart-
ment, As a result of these findings Glasser was suspended from the
Department of Justice in June 1'941.      A    resume of the information
relating to Glasser's activities in behalf of the Soviet Government were
set forth in a memorandum prepared by Alexander Holtzoff, who is
presently a Federal judge in Washington, D. C. This memorandum,
which was prepared in July 1941, set forth the obvious reasons why
Glasser should at least be dismissed with prejudice from the Jus-
tice Department. In the face of this memorandum, a board appointed
to study Glasser's case found that there was not in their opinion suffi-
cient cause for dismissal, although determining that he should not
be retained in the service of the Justice Department. Glasser was
requested to resign. He did submit his resignation, effective October
31, 1941, and immediately was employed by the Office of Price Ad-
ministration. No notification was sent to the   OPA    or the Civil Service
Commission by the Department of Justice as to the serious charges or
the fact that Glasser's resignation had been requested.
   It is little wonder then that, when he was hired by Rutgers Uni-
versity, in July 1947, the officials of that institution were completely
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-A]\IERICAN ACTIVITIES                    13

unaware of     Glasser's backo^"ound. When Glasser appeared before
the committee in March 1953, he refused to affirm or deny the allega-
tions that he had been engaged in espionage or whether he knew the
 Soviet agent when shown his picture.
   As this investigation progressed, the committee discovered the
•existence of a Communist cell on the campus of Yale University, New
 Haven, Conn., during 1947. The committee's investigation disclosed
that among the members of the cell were Byron Thorwell Darling,
 Paul Zilseh Daniel Fine, Theodore S. Polumbaum, Arthur L. Levy,
Harold T. Woerner, Jr., and others who have not yet been called before
the committee. The above-named appeared and, with the exception
of Zilsel, all refused to affirm or deny allegations that they had been
 members of a Communist cell at Yale, or were Communists at the
present time. Zilsel denied present membership but refused to furnish
information on Communist activities at Yale. The committee also
heard further testimony from Byron Thorwell Darling in Columbus,
Ohio, which will be treated in the section of the report dealing with
the Columbus hearings.
   The commitee also learned of the existence of a Communist cell
 among members of the faculty at Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy during the   late 1930's, and until at least the middle 1940's. The
first witness called in relation to this cell was William Ted ISIartin,
chairman of the mathematics department at MIT. INIr. Martin testi-
fied that he had been a member of the Communist Party from Janu-
ary 1938 until the summer of 1946. He testified that during that
period there was a Communist cell consisting of G or 7 professors at
MIT, and that in turn this cell was part of a broader Communist sec-
tion of teachers in the Boston and Cambridge area. Another member
of this cell, who furnished the committee with valuable information
concerning the Communist conspiracy, particularly in relation to the
teaching profession, was Isadore Amdur, professor of physical chem-
istry at^MIT.    Mr. Amdur gave the committee his opinion as to why
a scientist might be attracted to the Communist Party              :




   I believe that a relatively lar^e number    of scientists joined the Communist
Party partly because their training and activity makes it natural for them to do so.
A  scientist,"by nature, is a radical person. He is inclined to question everything,
to revolt against that which has gone before if, in his opinion, it does not jibe
with what he thinks the present ff.cts are, and I believe quite sincerely but
personally that scientists are more prone to go into an unpopular organization
such as tiie Communist Party in an attempt to find out what it is all about, and
it is my belief that the most radical o.'' the natural scientists are probably the
mathematicians. I might allow room for the philosophers I don't know, but
                                                               ;



the mathematicians, I believe, would cone first in that category. I believe the
physicists are a close second and the chemists and biologists and so forth would
hring up the rear.
   Amdur stated that he had been a member of the Communist Party
from 1938 until 1944 and after that ^as engaged in working on the
Manhattan Engineer District. Even though the Manhattan project
was one of the most vital and secretive ever undertaken by our Gov-
ernment, and resulted in the development of the atom bomb, Mr.
Amdur was never questioned by Manhattan Engineer District author-
ities as to whether he had been a member of the Communist Party

prior to or during his work on the project.
  One of the principal criticisms raised in connection with the investi-
gations and hearings by the House Committee on Un-American Activi-
14     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

ties is that universities are  themselves capable of detecting wliich
 teachers are Communists. The fallacy of this criticism is exemplified
 by the facts relating to John Henry Reynolds. Reynolds, as were
other witnesses, was identified under oath as a one-time member of
the Communist Party prior to the time that he was served with a
subpena by an investigator for the committee. Wlien he was first
contacted by the investigator, Reynolds arranged for an interview in
the office of the dean of the University of Florida, and further
arranged that the head of the department in which he was an in-
structor be present. In the presence of these university officials,
Reynolds flatly denied that he had ever been a member of the Commu-
nist Party.    In the intervening period between that conference and
his appearance before the committee, Reynolds was publicly identified
by three witnesses as a one-time member of the Communist Party.
When he did appear before the committee, Reynolds refused to affirm
or deny membership in the Communist Party on the grounds that to
do so might incriminate him.
   Evidence on the record indicates that in no instance has a university
or other educational institution knowingly employed the services of
a member of the Communist Party.
   Probably the most succinct statement relative to the committee's
investigations and hearings in this field has come from the universities
themselves. On March 24, 1953, the Association of American Uni-
versities adopted a statement entitled "The Rights and Responsibil-
ities of Universities and Their Faculties."     The committee believes
that the statement in its entirety should be read by every American
and, for that reason, it is reprinted as a portion of this report           :




  The Rights and      Responsibilities of Univeesities and Theib Faculties

     (Adopted by the Association of American Universities, March     24, 1953)

                 I.   HOLE OF THE UNIVERSITT IN AMERICAN LIFE

   For 300 years higher education has played a leading role in the advancement
of American civilization. No country in history so early perceived the impor-
tance of that role and none lias derived such widespread benefits from it. Colleges
moved westward with the frontier and carried with them the seeds of learning.
When the university idea was transplanted from Europe, it spread across the
Nation with extraordinary speed. Today our universities are the standard
bearers of our whole system of education. They are the mainstays of the pro-
fessions.  They are the prime source of our competence in science and the arts.
The names of their graduates crowd the honor rolls of two World Wars and of the
Nation's peacetime affairs. By every test of war and peace they have proved
themselves indispensable instruments of cultural progress and national welfare.
  In the United States there is a greater degree of equality of opportunity in
higher education than anywhere else in the world. A larger propoi'tion of
Americans study in universities and colleges than any other people. These
universities have shown and continue to show greater responsiveness to the
needs of our society than their European counterparts. They have equipped
our people with the varied skills and sciences essential to the development of
a pioneer country. They have imparted the shape and coherence of the Ameri-
can Nation to formless immigrant groups. American ideals have been strength-
ened, the great cultural tradition of the West has been broadened, and enriched
by their teaching and example.
  IModern knowledge of ourselves and of our universe has been nurtured in the
universities. The scientific, technological, medical, and surgical advances of our
time were born in them. They have supplied intellectual capital as essential
to our society as financial capital is to our industrial enterprise.    They have
more than justified the faith of the public in our distinctive system of higher
education. They have proved themselves dynamic forces of American progress.
        AJSTSnjAL   REPORT, COAOIITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                15

                         n.   THE NATURE OF A   UNrV^EBSITY

   A university is the institutional embodiment of an urge for knowledge that is
basic in human nature and as old as the human race. It is inherent in every
individual. The search that it inspires is an individual affair. Men vary in the
intensity of their passion for the search for knowledge as well as in their com-
petence to pursue it. History therefore presents us with a series of scholarly
pioneers who advanced our knowledge from age to age and increased our ability
to discover new knowledge.     Great scholars and teachers drew students to them,
and in the Middle Ages a few such groups organized themselves into the first
universities.
  The modern    university which evolved from these is a unique type of organiza-
tion.   For many reasons   it must differ from a corporation created for the pur-
pose of producing a salable article for profit. Its internal structure, procedures,
and discipline are properly quite different from those of business organizations.
It is not so closely integrated and there is no such hierarchy of authority as is
appropriate to a business concern the permament members of a university are
                                    ;



essentially equals.
   Like its medieval prototype, the modern American university is an associa-
tion of individual scholars. Their effectiveness, both as scholars and as teach-
ers, requires the capitalizing of their individual passion for knowledge and
their individual competence to pursue it and communicate it to others.        They
are united in loyalty to the ideal of learning, to the moral code, to the country,
and to its form of government. They represent diversified fields of knowledge,
they express many points of view. Even within the same department of in-
struction there are not only specialists in various phases of the subject, but
men with widely differing interests and outlooks.
   Free enterprise is as essential to intellectual as to economic progress. A
university must therefore be hospitable to an infinite variety of skills and
viewpoints, relying upon open competition among them as the surest safeguard
of truth. Its whole spirit requires investigation, criticism, and presentation
of ideals in an atmosphere of freedom and mutual confidence. This is the i-eal
meaning of "academic" freedom. It is essential to the achievement of its
ends that the faculty of a university be guaranteed this freedom by its govern-
ing board, and that the reasons for the guaranty be understood by the public.
To enjoin uniformity of outlook upon a university faculty would put a stop
to learning at the source.
   For these reasons a university does not take an official position of its own
either on disputed questions of scholarship or on political questions or matters
of public policy. It refrains from so doing not only in its own but in the public
interest, to capitalize the search for knowledge for the benefit of society, to
give the individuals pursuing that search the freest possible scope and the
greatest possible encouragement in their efforts to preserve the learning of
the past and advance learning in the present. The scholar who pursues the
search on these terms does so at maximum advantage to society. So does
the student. To the scholar, lie open new discoveries in the whole field of
knowledge, to his student the opportunity of sharing in those discoveries and
at the same time developing his powers of rational thought, intelligent judg-
ment, and an understanding use of acquired knowledge. Thus essential quali-
ties of learning are combined with essential qualities of citizenship in a free
society.
  To fulfill their function the members of university faculties must continue
to analyze, test, criticize, and reassess existing institutions and beliefs, ap-
proving when the evidence supports them and disapproving when the weight
of evidence is on the other side. Such investigations cannot be confined to
the physical world. The acknowledged fact that moral, social, and political
progress have not kept ijace with mastery of the physical world shows the
need for more intensified research, fresh insights, vigorous criticism, and in-
ventiveness. The scholar's mission requires the study and examination of un-
popular ideas, of ideas considered abhorrent and even dangerous. For, just
as in the case of deadly disease or the military potential of an enemy, it is
only by intense study and research that the nature and extent of the danger
can be understood and defenses against it perfected.
  Timidity must not lead the scholar to stand silent when he ought to speak,
particularly in the field of his competence. In matters of conscience and when
he has truth to proclaim the scholar has no obligation to be silent in the face
of popular disapproval.     Some of the great passages in the history of truth
16    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
have involved the open challenge of popular prejudice in times of tension such
as those in which we live.
    What applies to research applies equally to teaching. So long as an instructor's
observations are scholarly and germane to his subject, his freedom of expression
in his classroom should not be curbed.     The university student should be exposed
to competin.u: opinions and beliefs in every field, so that he may learn to weigh
them and gain maturity of judgment. Honest and skillful exposition of such
opinions and beliefs is the duty of every instructor; and it is equally his privilege
to express his own critical opinion and the reasons for holding it.       In teaching,
as in research, he is limited by the requirements of citizenship, of professional
competence and good taste. Having met those standards, he is entitled to all
the protection the full resources of the university can provide.
    Whatever criticism is occasioned by these practices, the universities are com-
mitted to them by their very nature. To curb them, in the hope of avoiding
crit cism, would mean distorting the true process of learning and depriving society
of its benefits. It would invite the fate of the German and Italian universities
under fascism and the Russian universities under communiism. It would deny
our society one of its most fruitful sources of strength and welfare and represent
a sinister change in our ideal of government.
    We must recognize the fact that honest men hold differing opinions. This
fundamental truth underlies the assertion and definition of individual rights and
freedom in our Bill of Rights. How does it apply to universities? In the eyes
of the law, the university scholar has no more and no less freedom than his
fellow citizens outside a university. Nonetheless, because of the vital importance
of the university to civilization, membership in its society of scholars enhances
 the prestige of persons admitted to its fellowship after probation and upon the
basis of achievement in research and teaching. The university supplies a dis-
 tinctive forum and, in so doing, strengthens the scholar's voice.     When his opin-
ions challenge existing orthodox points of view, his freedom may be more in need
of defense than that of men in otlier professions. The guaranty of tenure to
professors of mature and proven scholarship is one such defense. As in the case
of indg's, tenure protects the scholar against undue economic or political pres-
sures and ensures the continuity of the scholarly process.
    There is a line at which '"freedom" or ''privilege" begins to be qualified by legal
 "duty" and "obligalion." The determination of the line is the function of the
legislature and the courts. The ultimate interpretation and appiication of the
 first and fourteenth amendments are the function of the United States Supreme
Court but every public official is bound by his oath of office to respect and pre-
       ;


serve the liberties guaranteed therein. Thesf' are not to be determined arbi-
trarily or by public outcry.     The line thus drawn can be changed by legislative
and Judicial action; it has varied in the pa.st because of prevailing anxieties as
well as by reason of "clear and present" danger. Its location is .subject to, and
should receive, criticism both popular and judicial. However much the location
of the line may be criticized, it cannot be disregarded with impunity. Any
member of a university who crosses the duly established line is not excused by
 the fact that he believes the line ill drawn. When the speech, writing, or other
 actions of a member of a faculty exceed lawful limits, he is subject to the same
penalties as other persons. In addition, he may lo.se his university status.
    Historically the word "university" is a guaranty of standards. It implies
 endorsement not of its members' views but of their capability and integrity.
Every scholar has an obligation to maintain this reputation. By ill-advised,
though not illegal, public acts or utterances he may do serious harm to his pro-
fession, his university, to education, and to the general welfare.         He bears a
heavy responsibility to weigh the validity of his opinions and the manner in which
 they are expressed. His effectiveness, both as a scholar and teacher, is not
 reduced, but enhanced, if he has the humility and the wisdom to recognize the
fallibility of his own judgment.       He should remember that he is as much a
 layman as anyone else in nil fields except those in which he has special compe-
 tence.   Others, both within and without the university, are as free to criticize his
 opinions as he is free to express them.
    As in all acts of association, the professor accepts conventions which become
 morally binding. Aliove all, he owes his colleagues in the university complete
candor and perfect integrity, precluding any kind of clandestine or conspiratorial
 activities.  He owes equal cnndor to the public. If he is called upon to answer
 for his convictions it is his duty as a citizen to speak out.   It is even more defi-
 nitely his duty as a professor.     Refusal to do so, on whatever legal grounds,
 cannot fail to reflect upon a profession that claims for itself the fullest freedom
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                              17

to speak and the maximum protection of that freedom available in our society.
In this respect, invocation of the fifth amendment places upon a professor a heavy
burden of proof of his titness to hold a teaching position and lays upon his uni-
versity an obligation      to   reexamine   liis   qualifications for   membership   in   its
society.
  In all universities faculties exercise wide authority in internal affairs. The
greater their autonomy, the greater their share of responsibility to the public.
They must maintain the highest standards and exercise the utmost wisdom in
appointments and promotions. They must accept their share of responsibility
for the discipline of those who fall short in the discharge of their academic
trust.
   The universities owe their existence to legislative acts and public charters. A
State university exists by constitutional and legislative acts, an endowed uni-
versity enjoys its independence by franchise from the State and by custom.        The
State university is supported by public funds. The privately sustained university
is benefited by tax exemptions.    Such l)enettts are conferred upon the universities
not as favors but in furtherance of the public interest. They carry with them
public obligation of direct concern to the faculties of the universities as well as to
the governing boards.
   Legislative bodies from time to time may scrutinize these benefits and privi-
leges.   It is clearly the duty of universities and their members to cooperate in
oflicial inquiries directed to those ends.   When the powers of legislative inquiry
are abused, the remedy does not lie in noncooperation or defiance; it is to be
sought through the normal channels of informed public opinion.

                                 IV.   THE PRESENT DAXGER
  We     have                     and function of the university.
                set forth the nature                                         We
                                                                     have out-
lined its rights and responsibilities and those of its faculties. What are the
implications of current anxiety over Russian communism and the subversive
activities connected with it?
 We condemn Russian connnunism as we condemn every form of totalitarianism.
We share the profound concern of the American people at the existence of an
international conspiracy whose goal is the destruction of our cherished insti-
tutions.   The police state would be the death of our universities, as of our
Government. Three of its principles in particular are abhorrent to us: the
fomenting of worldwide revolution as a step to seizing power the use of false-
                                                                         ;



hood and deceit as normal means of persuasion; thought control the dictation —
of doctrines which must be accepted and taught by all party members. Under
the.se principles, no scholar could adequately disseminate knowledge or pursue
investigations in the effort to make further progress toward truth.
   Appointment to a university position and retention after appointment require
not only professional competence, but involve the aflirmative obligation of being
diligent and loyal in citizenship. Above all, a scholar must have integrity and
independence. This renders impossible adherence to such a regime as that of
Russia and its satellites. No person who accepts or advocates such principles
and methods has any place in a university. Since present membership in the
Communist Party requires the acceptance of these principles and methods, such
membership extinguishes the right to a university position. Moreover, if an
instructor follows communistic practice by becoming a propagandist for one
opinion, adopting a "party line," silencing criticism or impairing freedom of
thought and expression in his classroom, he forfeits not only all university sup-
port but his right to membership in the university.
   "Academic freedom" is not a shield for those who break the law. Universities
must cooperate fully with law-enforcement ofiicers whose duty requires them
to prosecute those charged with oft"enses.      Under a well-established American
principle their innocence is to be assumed until they have been convicted, under
due process, in a court of proper jurisdiction.
   Unless a faculty member violates a law, however, his discipline or discharge
is a university responsibility and should not be assumed by political authority.
Discipline on the basis of irresponsible accusations or suspicion can never be
condoned. It is as damaging to the public welfare as it is to academic integrity.
The university is competent to establish a tribunal to determine the facts and
fairly judge the nature and degree of any trespass upon academic integrity, as
well as to determine the penalty such trespass merits.
   As the professor is entitled to no special privileges in law, so also he should be
subject to no special discrimination.        Universities are bound to deprecate
18       ANTSrCTAL    REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

special loyalty tests which are applied to their faculties but to which others are
not subjected. Such discrimination does harm to the individual and even greater
harm to his university and the whole cause of education by destroying faith in
the ideals of university scholarship,

                                  V.   CONCLUSION

  Finally, we assert that freedom of thought and sipeech is vital to the mainte-
nance of the American system and is essential to the general welfare. Con-
demnation of communism and its protagonists is not to be interpreted as readi-
ness to curb social, political, or economic investigation and research. To insist
upon conformity to current beliefs and practices would do infinite harm to the
principle of freedom, which is the greatest, the central, American doctrine.
Fidelity to that principle has made it possible for the universities of America
to confer great benefits upon our society and our country. Adherence to that
principle is the only guaranty that the Nation may continue to enjoy those
benefits.

   The committee recognizes the area of its jurisdiction and its limi-
tations in this vital field, and will be so governed in the continuation
of this investigation.
   The results of the investigation and hearings, to date, serve to illus-
trate beyond question that Communist infiltration into the teaching
profession has been limited, but the committee views with concern
the fraction of Communist influence which has succeeded in achiev-
ing tenure.
   For the purpose of uniformity, those persons engaged in the teach-
ing profession, who were identified as members of the Communist
Party during hearings held by the committee in various cities other
than Washington, will be referred to in those sections of the report.
   The following individuals provided the committee with compre-
hensive testimony from their actual experience, the extent and
machinations of the Communist conspiracy as directed toward the
field of education, and for this, the committee extends its sincere
appreciation      :


                                                        Date of appearance
Amdur, Isadore                             Apr. 22, 1953.
Blaisdell, Ballis     Edwin                May 15, 1953 (Mr. Blaisdell appeared
                                             in executive session and testified fully
                                             as to his former membership in the
                                             Communist Party. His testimony has
                                             not been made public).
Boorstin, Daniel J                         Feb. 26, 1953.
Davis. Robert Gorham                       Feb. 25, 1953.
Hicks, Granville                           Feb. 26, 1953.
Levinson, Norman                           Apr. 23, 1953.
Marks, Harry J                             June   22, 1953.
Martin, William T                          Apr. 22, 1953.
Mayberry, George Beach                     July 1, 1953.
Eobbins, Herbert                           Mar. 25, 1953 (Mr. Robbins appeared in
                                             executive session and testified fully
                                             as to his former membership in the
                                             Communist Party. A portion of his
                                             testimony has been made public).
Schlatter, Richard                         Feb. 18, 1953 (Mr. Schlatter appeared
                                             in executive session and testified fully
                                             as to his former membership in the
                                             Communist Party. His testimony has
                                             not been made public).
Sherr,    Rubby                            Feb. 18, 1953 (Mr. Sherr appeared in
                                             executive session and testified fully as
                                             to his former Communist Party mem-
                                             bership. His testimony has not been
                                             made    public).
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                               19

  The following persons were identified as members of the Communist
Party during the course of hearings held in Washington, D. C, on
Communist methods of infiltration—education                            :




                                                                           Identified by
Arguimbau, Lawrence                                    William T. Martin, Apr.          22, 1953.
  Associate  professor, Massachusetts                  Isadore Amdur, Apr. 22, 1953.
    Institute of Technology.                           Norman Levinson, Apr. 23, 1953.
       (Appeared in executive session,
       Apr. 21, 1953   admitted former
                         ;

       Communist    Party membership
       and refused to answer questions
       regarding other Party members,
       but   not    on    constitutional
      grounds. )
Arnold, Kenneth                                        Isadore Amdur, Apr. 22, 1953.
  Graduate student, Massachusetts In-
    stitute of Technology.
Bloomfield, Sidney                                     Harry   J.    Marks, June     22, 1953.
  Taught at Communist Party school in
    Boston,
dark, Margot                                           Robert Gorhain Davis, Feb. 25, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary,                         Also identified by a former Communist
                                                         in 1951.
Douglas, Dorothy W.                                    Robert Gorham Davis, Feb.           25, 1953.
  Resident, Bryn Mawr former instruc-
                                 ;


    tor. Smith College.
       (Appeared Mar. 13, 1953 refused     ;

       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Dunham, Barrows                        Investigation identifying Mr. Dunham
  Professor, Temple University.          as a member of the Communist Party
       (Appeared Feb. 27, 1953 refused   has not been made public.
                                           ;

       to answer questions.)
Fine, Daniel                           Investigation identifying Dr. Fine as a
  Resident in medicine, Peter Bent       member of the Communist Party haa
      Brigham Hospital, Boston.                          not been     made    public.
       (Appeared Apr. 14, 1953 refused    ;

       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Flynn, Hulda Johnson Rees McGarvey Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25, 1953.
  Housewife former assistant profes- Also identified by a former Communist
               ;


    sor, Smith College.                   in 1951.
       (Appeared JMar. 17, 1953 refused    ;

       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Friedburg, Saul                         Harry J. Marks, June 22, 1953.
  Student at Harvard Law School In (Witness identified Mr. Friedburg as a
    1930's.                                              member      of    the   Young Communist
                                                         League. )
Furry, Wendell H.                                      Robert Gorham Davis, Feb.             25, 1953.
  Professor,   Harvard                                 Granville Hicks, Feb. 26, 1953.
      (Appeared        Feb. 26, 1953, and              William T. Martin, Apr. 22, 1953.
      Apr.     16,   1953   denied present
                             ;
                                                       Isadore Amdur, Apr. 22, 1953.
      Commiinist       Party           membership      George Mayberry, July 1, 1953.
      but refused to affirm or deny past
      membership.)
Gelbart, Abe                                           William T. Martin, Apr. 22, 1953.
  Associate professor,               Syracuse   Uni-   Isadore Amdur, Apr. 22, 1953.
    versity.                                           Norman Levinson, Apr. 23, 1953.
      (Appeared May 28, 1953; denied
      present Communist Party mem-
      bership but refused to affirm or
      deny past membership.)
20    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                        Identified by
Glasser,    Abraham                                    Identified as contact and source of
  Associate professor, Rutgers Univer-                   information for Soviet espionage
    sity; former attorney in Justice                     agents, by investigation made public
     Department.                                         in the record of the hearing.
       (Appeared Mar.  18, 1953; denied
       present Communist 'Party mem-
       bership but refused to affirm or
       deny past membership and con-
       nections with Soviet agents.)
Goldstein, Mrs. Theodora Mitzberg        Herbert Philbrick, July 23, 1951.
  Secretary to Boston attorney.
       (Appeared Apr. 2.3, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Goodwin, Kicliard                      Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25, 1953.
  Former instructor. Harvard.          Daniel J. Boorstin, Feb. 26, 1953.
      (Robert Gorliam Davis testified
      he believed Mr. Goodwin left the
          Communist Party.)
Gordon,    Hy                                          Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.                         Robert Gladnick, May C, 1953 (testify-
                                                           ing in   New York City). Also iden-
                                                           tified   by a former Communist in
                                                           1952.
Grant,Dave                                             Harry   J.   Marks, June   22, 1953.
  Communist Party          functionary.
Grossenbacher, Carl                                    William T. Martin, Apr.      22, 1953.
  Member of nouteaching staff at Har-                  Isadore Amdur, Apr. 22, 1953.
    vard.
Halperin, Israel                                       Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25, 1953.
  Member      of  Communist Party            profes-   Granville Hicks, Feb. 26, 1953.
     sional     unit  at Harvard         ;
                                               later   Daniel J. Boorstin, Feb. 26, 1953.
     taught in Canada.                                 William T. Martin, Apr. 22, 1953.
Ha rap, Louis                                          Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25, 1953.
  Managing         editor of .lewish Life.             Granville Hicks, Feb. 26, 1953.
          (Appeared June29, 1953; re-                  George Mayberry, July 1, 1953.
      fused to affirm or deny Commu-                   Herbert Robbins, Mar. 25, 1953.
      nist Party membership.)
Hendley, Charles                                       Robert Graham Davis, Feb.        25, 1953.
  Headed New York Local of American
    Federation of Teachers.
Hurvich, Leo M.                                        Investigation identifying Mr. Hurvich
  Experimental psychologist, Eastman                     as a member of the Communist Party
     Kodak      Co., Rochester, N. Y.                    has not been made public.
       (Appeared Apr. 21, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Levy, Arthur L.                         Investigation identifying Mr. Levy as a
  On staff of chemistry department,       member of the Communist Party has
    Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.     not been made public.
       (Appeared Apr. 23, 1953 refused
                                     ;


      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Levy, Larry                             Harry J. Marks, June 22, 1953.
  Former leader of Young Communist
    League at Harvard.
Libby,Mack                         Harry                       J.   Marks, June    22, 1953.
  Young Communist League organizer
     in   district including    Harvard.
Markham, George   F.                                   Investigation identifying Mr. Markham
  Educational director in New England                    as a member of the Communist Party
    for International Fur and Leather                    has not been made public.
     Workers Union.
       (Appeared June 24, 1953 refused
                                     ;


       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
McGarvey, Hulda (see Hulda Johnson
  Rees McGarvey Flynn)
          ANNUAL REPORT,              COIVIMITTEE           ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                          21

                                                                                 Identified hy
Parry, William T.                       Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25, 1953.
  Teacher, University of Buffalo.       Also by a witness in executive testi-
       (Appeared May 19,  19r)3 refused   mony not made public.
                                             ;



      to affirm or deny Communist
          Party membership.)
Philbrick,    Alan                  Harry J. Marks, June 22, 1953.
  Member  of Young Communist League
     atHarvard in 1930's.
Polumbaum, Theodore S.              Investigation identifying Mr. Polum-
  Writer, IJoston Bureau of United    baum as a member of the Coramimist
     Press.                                                   Party has not been made public.
          (Appeared Apr. 21, 1953 refused    ;


          to affirm or deny Communist
          Party membership.)
      Norman
Putter,                                                     William T. Martin, Apr.              22, 1953.
  Member of Communist Party                      in Syra-
     cuse, N. Y.
Rackliffe, Jack                                             Robert Gorham Davis, Feb.              25, 1953.
  Member of Communist Party profes-                         Granville Hicks, Feb. 26, 1953.
     fessional unit at Harvard.                             Daniel J. Boorstln, Feb. 26, 1953.
                                                            Norman Levinsou, Apr. 23, 1953.
                                                            George Mayberry, July 1, 1953.

Reynolds, John Henry                                        Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25. 1953.
  Teacher, University of Florida.                           William T. Martin, Apr. 22, 1953.
       (Appeared Apr. 27, 1953; refused                     Norman          Levinson, Apr. 23, 1953.
          to   affirmdeny Communist
                          or
      Party membership.)
Rosen, Nathan                        Isadora Amdur, Apr.                                 22, 1953.
  Member, physics department, Massa-
    chusetts Institue of Technology                     ;


    now        believed    to   be    in     State     of
     Israel.
Schirmer, Daniel Boone                                      Harry      J.   Marks, June   22, 1953.
  Communist Party organizer.                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                                              in 1951.
Sillen,Samuel                                               Robert Gorham Davis, Feb. 25, 19.53.
  Editor, Masses and Mainstream.                            Also identified by a former Communist
                                                              in 1952 and a former Communist in
                                                              19.51.
Singer, Marcus                                              Isadore Amdur, Apr. 22, 1953.
  Professor, Cornell University.
       (Appeared May 26-27, 1953; ad-
       mitted former Communist Party
       membership but       refused   to
       answer questions regarding other
       party members on constitutional
       grounds.)
Sparks, Ned (Nemmy).       {See section
  of this report on hearings held in Los
  Angeles. )
Starr, Loretta                                              Harry      J.   Marks, June    22, 1953.
  Teacher at Communist Party school
    in Boston.
Stern, Bernhard                                             Granville Hicks, Feb. 26, 1953.
  Professor, Columbia University.
Struik, Dirk J.                                             William T. Martin, Apr.          22, 1953.
  Professor, Massachusetts Institute of                     NormanLevinson. Apr. 23, 1953.
     Technology.                                         Isadore Amdur, Apr. 22, 1953.
          (Appeared July        24,   1951   ;   refused Also identified by a former Communist
          to        deny Communist
               affirm     or         in 1951.
      Party membership.)
Weber, Johnny                      Harry J. Marks, June                                   22, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
22    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                  Identified by
Weitzman,    Max                                     Herbert Philbrick, July   23, 1951.
  Public-school teacher, Boston,
       (Appeared Apr.     22,   1953   ;   refused
       to   affirm    deny Communist
                     or
        Party membership.)
Woerner, Harold T., Jr.                  Investigation identifying Mr. Woerner
   Salesman, Hauck Manufacturing Co.,      as a member of the Communist Party
     Brooklyn.                             has not been made public.
        (Appeared Apr. 29, 1953; refused
        to affirm or deny Communist
        Party membership.)
Zllsel, Paul Rudolph                     Investigation identifying Mr. Zilsel as
   Assistant professor. University of      a member of the Communist Party
     Connecticut.                                      has not been   made     public.
       (Appeared Apr.     22,   1953; denied
      present Communist Party mem-
      bership but refused to affirm or
      deny past membership.)
 INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE
              LOS ANGELES AREA
  During the years 1951 and 1952, the House Committee on Un-
iVmerican Activities held hearings in Los Angeles, Calif., relating
principally to Communist efforts to infiltrate the motion-picture in-
dustry. Because of the number of individuals who were named dur-
ing these hearings as having once been members of the Communist
Party, it was impossible to take testimony from each one before the
committee during 1952. Because of this, and due to the fact that
additional information was developed in other fields in the southern
California area, the committee resimied its hearings there in March
1953.
  The testimony given by persons      associated with the motion-picture
industry  has  been  of particular  value to the committee. As a com-
paratively new industry, but a very important one in American life,
the Communists early exerted a determined effort to infiltrate its
various and diverse activities.      Individuals in the motion-picture
industry  are, for  the most  part, better  educated and generally have
attained a higher level of living than is true with the usual rank-and-
file member of the Communist Party.        The committee's early efforts
to investigate subversion, as related to the motion-picture industry,
met with opposition and criticism from some picture people, a criti-
cism which must now be assumed to have stemmed from an honest
misunderstanding of the extent to which the industry had been infil-
trated by the Communist Party. As the investigations, commenced
in 1947, continued, it became apparent that some hundreds of actors,
producers, writers, musicians, and back-lot workers
                                                       had in fact joined
the Communist conspiracy during the 1930's and 1940's. As the cold
facts of the infiltration became known to the American public and
those responsible for the operation of the motion-picture industry, a
measure of izreater cooperation was afforded the committee in its work.
                                                                              the
   During the past year the committee is pleased to report that
spirit of helpful cooperation
                                    evidenced    by motion-picture-industry
                                            it can be stated on considerable
figures has been excellent. Further,
                                                 in the world today employs
authority that perhaps no major industry
fewer members of the Communist Party than does the motion-picture
industry. The committee is
                                 aware that there may be instances where
former 'Communists are still engaged in the work of the conspiracy
within the industry, and every effort will be made to disclose the
nature and the extent of their work.
   The change in attitude of the motion-picture industry toward the
work of the committee was pointed up in the testimony of Silvia
                                                          on March 25, 1953.
Richards, who appeared before the committee
                                                                            that
Mrs. Richards, a writer with numerous screen credits, admitted
she was formerlv     a member    of  the Communist      Party  and  had   this to
                                  attitude of the motion-picture industry
say concerning the present
toward the committee's investigations             :



                                                     in the motion-picture indus-
  I think that there has been a very distinct change
try     I can't talk   abont the public.   We   live in a sort of little tracks out here.
                                                                                23
24     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
We   go to the studio and we go home that's about all. But at the beginning of
                                      ;


this investigation there was a tremendous amount of confusion in Hollywood with
relation to them.
  There is one thing that has cleared up in particular that I feel very good about.
One of the things that deters people from making a public announcement of their
change in relation to communism, even if they have left the party is that in
addition to earning the hatred and contempt of their former friends and asso-
ciates, they are shunned by a large number of other people who think that once
a Communist always a Communist.
  Now, in the motion-picture industry, while it is very sensitive to public opinion,
                              —                                  —
has in this regard done tliis and it is a very courageous thing and that is they
have made it possible for people to announce this change of position without
stigma or without being penalized.
  I think this is due to a niunber of factors.    That the committee itself, the
procedures of the committee, in that it has heard evidence and not wild hearsay
and gossip, has been very reassuring to the Industry.
  It ]ias come to the attention of the committee that a valuable public
service is being rendered in the motion-picture industry by organiza-
tions, sucli as the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of
American Ideals. This and similar organizations have been instru-
mental in the success the committee has achieved in that area by the
encouragement they have given individuals who were former members
of the Communist Party to testify fully and freely. These organiza-
tions have also been valuable in that "they have assisted the former
Communists in rehabilitation, both sociallv and economically.
  During the committee's investigations and hearings, the Communists
and fellow travelers, particularly those individuals who have been
identified under oath before the committee as one-time members of the
Communist Party and who, in turn, invoked the fifth amendnient in
refusing to testify, have charged that the committee is compiling a
"black list." The absurdity of this charge is obvious when it is con-
sidered that these individuals, of their own accord and volition, joined
the Communist conspiracy, and that it is on their own personal deter-
mination that they have refused to affirm or deny sworn testimony
placing them in the     Communist Party. The fact is that in those rare
instances in which the Communist Party was successful in gaining
control of various phases of the motion-picture industry, it exercised
a very thorough blacklisting of individuals who were not Commu-
nists.   This fact is particularly noted in the testimony of Harold
A. Hecht on March 23, 1953, when h.e testified with regard to Com-
munist infiltration of the Federal Theater ancl of the discrimination
                                                  individuals who were not
practiced in the selection or retention of
members of the Communist Party            :




  Well, if there was a tie or if there was a matter of doubt, we were expected
to keep and continue the member who belonged to the Communist Party. As I
said before, at that time appropriations were being cut and there were quite a
number of firings. While it was recognized that there couldn't be discrimination,
however, we were expected to favor the members of the Communist Tarty in
                                                                       well when
retaining their jobs. There was one instance that I remember very
^e were asked to drop a number of people from one of the groups, and there was
a person reported to be a Trotskyite and we let that person go. However, that
person was not necessarily inferior to a number of other people who were
                                                                           in line
for that   same   position.

     Mr. Hecht, who is a Hollvwood agent, testified that he was a member
of the     Communist Party for approximately 3 or 4 years, from 1036
until either the     end of 1939 or the beginning of 1940.      Mr. Hecht tes-
tified fully      and completely concerning      his   membership in the Com-
            ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     25

munist Party and his association with Communist causes. His reason
for so testifying is of particular interest, and might well serve as a
       for other persons who have broken away from the Communist
 'arty. Mr. Hecht said
fuide                          :



  I  think it has become clear that Communists and people associated with Com-
munists are enemies of this country. We must be alined with the forces of
democracy and against communism. We can no longer straddle the fence. Today
I woudn't represent a Communist.     I wouldn't hire one.    Communism is a con-
spir.Mcy and the Communist Party in this country is a tool of the Soviet Union.
I didn't look forward to my appearance here today in the sense of enjoying it.
I am not a public speaker, but I am gr;iteful for the opportunity of being allowed
to testify.   I think this committee renders a valuable service in providing the
forum for an ex-Communist to state his present position clearly and firmly.
There are many people in this country similar to me, people who are not neces-
sarily Communists, but people who are left all the way to center, and these
people, I believe, are gradually becoming more and more aware of the sinister
ways of the Communist Party and the place where they belong. They need forces
to work with and new friends. That is the important part of the anti-Communist
program and I would like to be part of it.
  Another witness who appeared before the committee in Los Angeles
during INIarch, and furnished it with valuable information concerning
Communist infiltration of the motion-picture industry, was David
A. Lang, a screenwriter. As indicated before in this report, the com-
mittee  is especially interested in determining why individuals, par-

ticularly those of high intellectual standards, would ever be beguiled
into Joining the Communist Party, and what process causes them to
break away from the Communist Party. Mr. Lang's testimony in this
respect is quite enlightening      :




  It is an international organization, the Communist Party. If you, which I did
many years too late, go back into the history of the war and how they changed
their point of view so as to gain a foothold wherever they could and wherever
                                             —
they felt a foothold would be hard to gain they knew it is difficult to arouse
people in a country like the United States into revolutionary tactics, some man
who has been born and raised here, to overthrow the Government that he has
been given the opportunity to improve under. So they changed the face they had
originally started out with.
  If you will read a man by the name of Dimitrov, he said that the Communist
Party will always be a revolutionary party, the concept of the party, it came out
of revolution and the end of it is to be only the overthrow of the capitalist and
all that the cai)italiststands for. It must be the party of the proletariat, and
we must  gain the peasants and the workers.
  But this was not Russia. This is a country that is rich and powerful, and to
come into this country and bring about an organization such as the Communist
Party wasn't that easy, because there weren't that many people that were suffer-
ing, and to get men like me and many like me they had to make it more palatable     ;

they had to make it more esoteric, more intellectual, and they did a darned
good       job.
       *              *        *        *           :^           *           )>:




  I felt very strong in the party, that I would be in the position to understand a
lot of things that happened, and to help these things happen within the elements
of our law and our courts, but when I began to see that the party looked askance
at our courts and make fun of everything we stood for and took advantage of
                  —
our mistakes and Lord knows we make plenty of them, and there is nothing
wrong with making mistakes— to take advantage of a mistake, to set people
against one another or set people against the country, that was a part of this I
couldn't stand for, so any knowledge they could impart to me by becoming a
member of the party would have been of no value.
   I was against it, and educationally I felt I could learn far more by
                                                                        getting out
of it, without having the influence of these people about me.

  The committee also received very valuable testimony from other
individuals who are or were at one time associated with the motion-
     47400—54   3
26      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

picture industry and      who were members        of the   Communist Party as
well.
   The hearings in Los Angeles, during March, also added to the
committee's knowledge of Communist efforts to infiltrate the teach-
ing profession in that city. One of the witnesses was Leroy
Travers Herndon, Jr., a professor at Glendale College, California,
who testified that he had been a member of the Communist Party for
3 years, from 1937 to 1940. Mr. Herndon, as have other teachers, testi-
fied concerning Communist efforts to infiltrate and gain control of the
Teachers' Union. He testified that the Communist Party operated
completely as a unit within the Teachers' Union, acting in complete
accord and unanimity which greatly increased its control over the
non-Communists in union affairs. Mr. Herndon had a particularly
interesting viewpoint on what constitutes academic freedom, especially
as it would apply to a teacher who is a member of the Communist
Party, which he set forth as follows       :




  That brings up the question of academic freedom, and my concept of academic
freedom is that a teacher should teach his subject, and good citizenship and good
character along with it, to the best of his ability, that he should use his intelli-
gence and teach tiie truth as far as he can see it, and that his teaching should
be in accordance with his conscience.
  Now, a teacher who is in the Communist Party is not a free agent. No matter
how intelligent he may be, when he enters the Communist Party he agrees to
accept the direction of the Communist Party as to what he should think, when he
should think it, without demur and without a why. He is not a free agent intel-
lectually, and he is not a free agent morally. I don't see how really— I have come
to the conclusion that with a practicing Communist I don't see how it can be a
question of academic freedom at all. I think that a teacher who is at the present
time, let us say, a practicing Communist is a person who is under the direction
of the Communist Party to teach not the truth as he sees it, but the truth as the
Communist Party sees it, as far as possible.
  An aspect of subversive activities which was developed by the com-
mittee in the Los Angeles hearings concerned the existence of a type
of school quite different from any that its investigations had developed
to that time.    The committee had as a witness on March 25, 1953,
Joseph Springer, of Crestline, Calif. During the committee's investi-
gation preparatory to the Los Angeles hearings it was learned that on
the weekend of December 5-T, 1052, a secret Communist Party school
was held at Camp Tenaya in Crestline. The camp, which is closed
during the winter months, is under the operation of Joe and Preva
Springer. The committee's investigation disclosed that the school,
held in December 1952, was not an ordinary one, but rather one of
great importance. The individuals in attendance at this school were
Communist Party functionaries and it was held under the direction
of high Communist Party officials. Among the individuals in attend-
ance, in addition to the Springers, were Max Klansky and Walter
Smith. What is a matter of particular concern to the committee is
that the school was one in a series of new schools held by the Commu-
nist Party for the purpose of issuing directives to infiltrate shops in
key industries and, in particular, defense establishments.
   Mr. Springer, when he appeared before the committee, refused to
answer questions relating to this school or its participants, as well as
refusing to state whether he was a member of the Communist Party.
He indignantly denied that he had ever used any name other than that
of Joseph Springer.
        AKNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES               27

  During the subsequent testimony of Robert Gladnick in New
York City in May 1953, Mr. Gladnick testified that he not only had
known Joseph Springer, but, further, that he had known him under
the name of Joseph Saul. On the basis of this conflicting testimony,
the matter has been referred by the committee to the Department of
Justice for its consideration as to the possibility of securing a perjury
prosecution.
   One of the most surprising witnesses who testified before the House
Committee on Un-American Activities in Los Angeles, on March 28,
1953, was Mrs. Edith Macia, a motherly appearing 69-year-old woman.
It is an understatement to say that Mrs. Macia certainly did not give
the appearance of a revolutionary, nor would she, on sight, be mistaken
for a undercover agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The
facts are, however, that from August 1943 until January 1949, Mrs.
Macia was an undercover agent for the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, reporting to that Bureau on the activities of the Communist
Party in Los Angeles. The fact that she had successfully concealed
her true identity and had gained the confidence of the Communist
Party is attested to by the voluminous information she was able to
supply to the committee.
   During 1953, the committee released testimony that had been taken
from Larry Parks in executive session on March 21, 1951. In the
course of his questioning, Mr. Parks was asked about numerous indi-
viduals prominent in the motion-picture industry. This fact should
not be construed as an identification of these individuals as members
of the Communist Party, unless subsequent testimony has established
such identification.
  As a result of tireless investigation on the part of the committee and
the cooperation of the numerous witnesses who have afforded the com-
mittee the knowledge they acquired as former members of the Com-
munist Party, more individuals were named as members of the Com-
munist Party in Los Angeles than in any other locality in wliich the
committee has held hearings.
  The committee wishes to express its appreciation to the following
persons who, through their cooperation and encouragement, have
assisted the committee, the Congress, and the American people in tliis
important work     :

                                                Date of appearance
Adams, Mrs. Charlotte Darling        Mar. 26 and June 2,   195.3.
Arnaz, Mrs. Lucille Ball             Sept. 4, 1953 (Miss Ball appeared in
                                       executive session, denied membership
                                       in the Communist Party, and testified
                                                                          fully as to facts relating to Commu-
                                       nist association).
Atlas, Leopold Lawrence              Mar. 12, 1953.
Ball, Mrs. Desired B                 Sept. 4, 1953 (Mrs. Ball appeared in
                                       executive session, denied membership
                                       in the Communist Party, and testified
                                       fully as to facts relating to Commu-
                                       nist association).
Ball,   Fred   H                     Sept.  4, 1953 (Mr. Ball appeared in
                                       executive session, denied membership
                                       in the Communist Party, and testified
                                       fully as to facts relating to Commu-
                                      nist association).
BenofE, Max                       , Mar. 24, 1953.
Benoff, Mrs. Mildred                Feb. 17, 1953.
28      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                          Date of appearance
Cobb, Lee J                                             June   2,   1953.
Dare, Danny                                             Mar.  23, 11).")3.
Erwin, Roy                                              Mar.  31, 1953.
Fleury, Beruyce Polifka                                 Sept. 10, 1951 (Mrs. Fleury appeared in
                                                          executive session and testified fully as
                                                          to her former memhersliip in tlie Com-
                                                          munist Party. Portions of her testi-
                                                          mony have been made                    public).
Gnrrigues, Charles             H                        Mar. 27, 19r)3.
Ilauser,     Dwight                                    IMar. 30, 19."'.3.
Iltcht,Harold A                                        Mar. 23, 19r.3.
Herndon, LeRoy, Jr                                     Mar. 27, 1953.
Kibbee, Roland             W                           June 2, 1953.
Kinney, Anne                                            Dec. 22, 1952 (released in 1953).
Lang, Mrs. Babbette                                     June  2, 1953.
Lang, David                                             IMar. 24, 1953.
Lewis, Richard Bvrd                                     Mar. 27, 19.53.
Lvtt(m, Bart                                            Mar. 25 and 20, 1953.
Macia, Mrs. E<lith                                      Mar. 28, 1953.
Narcisenfeld, Harvey                                    Nov. 12, 19.52 (Mr. Narcisenfeld ap-
                                                          peared in executive session and testi-
                                                          fied fully as to Ills former membership
                                                          in tlie    Communist Party.                A    portion
                                                          of his          testimony       has      been     made
                                                          public).
I'arivs,    Larry                                       Mar.   21,   1951 (released in 1953).
Pmcell, Gertrude                                        Apr.   8, 19.53.
R.Klin, Paul Benedict                                   Mar. 12, 1953 (Mr. Radin while denying
                                                          actual membership in tiie Couunuiiist
                                                          Party, admitted attending meetings).
Richards, IMrs. Silvia                                  Mar.   25, 19.53.
Rosser, Lou (see also section of this re-               Jan. 15, 1952 (Mr. Rosser appeared and
  port regarding the bearings held in                     in a sworn statement testilieii fully as
  San Francisco).                                         to Ids former membership in the Com-
                                                          munist Pai'ty. I'ortious of his state-
                                                          ment have been made public).
Rubin,       Stanley                                    Mar. 12, 19.53 .Mr. Rubin while denying
                                                                             (


                                                          actual membership in the Conununist
                                                          Party, adnutted attending meetings),
Shor, Sol                                               Mar.   12, 19-53.
Silver,      Max                                        Jan. 24, 1952 (Mr. Silver appeared in
                                                          executive session and testified fully
                                                          as to his forujer membership in the
                                                          Communist I'arty. A portion of Ills
                                                          testimony has been made public).
Townsend, Mrs. Pauline S                                Mar,   12, 1953.

  The following persons were identified as members of the Communist
Party during the course of hearings held in the Los Angeles area                                             :



                                                                                 Identified by
Abowitz, EUenore* (Mrs. Murray Abo- Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  witz; nee Ellenore Bogigiau party        19.53).
                                             ;


  name: aiargaret Petos).                Also identified by a former Communist
       (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; re-       in 1952 and by one in 1951.;


       fused to affirm or deny Commu-
       nist Party membership.)
Adams, Joe                               Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Adams, Mary Jane                         Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Albert, Sam                              Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
  Musician.
        (Appeai-ed Apr. 7, 1953; refused
            to affirm or deny            Communist
            Party membership.)

  1   The           name                                                  some instances.
            first          incorrectly spelled Eleanor or Elinore in
         ANNUAL REPORT,              COI^IMITTEE        ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     29
                                                                          Identified hy
Alexander, Hy (Harmon)                           Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying
  Radio writer                                      in New York).
       (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused           Silvia Kiohards, Mar. 25, 1953.
         to affirm or deny             Communist Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953.
         Party membersliip.)                     Also identified by two former Commu-
                                                           nists in 1952.
Alexander, Mrs Hy
   {See Georgia Backus.)
Allen (Allan), Louis (Lewis)                            Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Playwright.                                           Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                        Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12. 1953.
Allen (Allan), Mrs. Louis (Lewis)                       Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953,
Aliiert,      Hymie                                     Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
  Clothier.
Anhattzer, Arthur                                       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Anhattzer, Dorothy                                      Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Anthony, Iva                                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Anthony, Vern                                           Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Arden, Betty                                            Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                                           1953).
                                                        Also identified by a former Communist
                                                           in 1951.
Arnold, Lucy                                            Anne Kinney, Dec.        22,   1952 (released in
  Member Hyde Park Branch, Commu-                          1953).
    nist Party, Chicago.
                ^
Bachelis, Selma                                         Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 195.1.
  Attorney.                                             Also identihed by 5 former Communists
                                                          in 1952; and by 1 in 1951.
Backus, Georgia (Mrs.            Hy   Alexander)        Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying
  Actress.                                                in New York).
         (Appeared Sept. 19, 1951 refused  ;            Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
         to affirm or deny Communist                      in New York).
         Party membership.)                             Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953
                                                        Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953
                                                        Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953
                                                        Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                           in 1952.
Bargeman,   Bertha               (Mrs.         Marvin David A. Lang, Mar.             24, 1953
  Bargeman)
Bargeman, Marvin                                        David A. Lang, Mar.        24, 1953
Baron, Bea                                              Anne Kinney, Dec.         22, 1952 (released
                                                           in 1953).
Baron, Lou (see also section of this re-                Anne Kinney, Dec.         22,      1952 (released
    port regarding the hearings held in                    in 1953),
  San I'^rancisco).
  Trade union director of Communist
       Party    In   Los Angeles County.
Baroway, Leo   (see also section of this                Anne Kinney, Dec.       22, 1952 (released in
  report regarding the hearings held in                    1953).
    San Francisco).
Barzman, Ben                                            Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Screen writer.                                          in New York).
                                                        Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
                                                        Also identified by 5 former Communists
                                                          in 1952; and by 2 in 1951.
Barzman, Norma (Mrs. Ben Barzman)                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
                                                        Also identified by a former Commimist
                                                          in 1951 and by 1 in 1952.
                                                                      ;


Barzman   Sol                                           David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953
  Writer.                                               Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
Beard, Cecil                                            Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953
  Cartoonist,
Beck, Elena                                             Mildred Benoff, Feb. 17, 1953
                                                        Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953

  '           name
      First          incorrectly spelled   "Thelma"   in printed hearings of   June   2,   1952.
30      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                Identified hy

Becker, Catherine                        Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
Becker, Zara                             LeRov Herndou, Jr., Mar. 27, 10.53
  English teacher.                       Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953
                                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                           1953).
Bela, Nicholas (Nick)                    David A. Lang, Mar.             24,   1953
  Writer.                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953
                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
                                         Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                           in 1951
Bela, Mrs. Nicholas                      Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953
Bengal, Ben                              Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer.                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                           in 1951.
Bennett, Connie Lee                      David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
Bennett, Seymour                         David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.
Benson, Sidney (also    known   as   Ted Pauline     S.       Townsend, Mar.      12, 1953.
  Wellman).                             Also identified bv 2 former Communists
                                          in 19.52 and by 1 in 1951.
                                                      ;


Bernstein, Sanford                      Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Bessie, Alvah                           Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Screenwriter.                           in New York).
       (Appeared Oct. 28, 1947, refused David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
       to afBrm or deny Communist Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
       Party membership.)               Also identified by 4 former Commu-
                                          nists in 1951 and by 1 in 1952.
                                                                 ;


Bessie, INIrs. Alvah                    Leopold Atlas, IMar. 12, 1953.
Bevins, John                            Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Former studio worker.                   1953).
Beye, Frank                             Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
     San Fernando Valley.                   1953).
Biberman, Edward                          Bernvce Fleury, Sept.           10,   1951 (released
     Artist.                                in 1953).
                                         Zachary Schwartz, May       7, 1953 (testi-
                                            fying in New York).
                                          Harold Hecht, I\Lar. 23, 1953.
                                          David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
                                          Charlotte Darling Adams, Mar. 26,
                                            1953 also June 2, 1953.
                                                 ;

                                          Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                            in 1951 and by 1 in 1952.
                                                          ;


Biberman, Herbert                        Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
   Director.                             Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
        (Appeared Oct. 29, 1947; refused Dannv Dare, Mar. 23, 1953.
        to affirm or deny Communist Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
        Party membership.)               Gertrude Purcell, Apr. 8, 1953.
                                         Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                         Also identified by 7 former Communists
                                           in 1951 and by 4 in 1952.
                                                          ;
                                                          


 Bigelman, Leo (party name: Dennis Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
     Dane)                                 in New York).
   Physician.                            Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
         (Appeared Sept. 18, 1951; re-     1953).
        fused to affirm or deny Commu- Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
        nist Party memebership.)         Also identified bv 5 former Communists
                                           in 1951 and by 1 in 1952.
                                                          ;



 Bindley, Mary                           Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
 Birnkarnt, Arthur (or Birnkrant)        David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
 Blankfort, Henry                        Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
   Writer.                                 in New York).
         (Appeared Sept. 18, 1951; re- Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying
        fused to affirm or deny Commu-     in New York).
        nist Party membership.)          David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
                                         Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953.
                                         Also identified by 2 former Commu-
                                           nists in 1951 and by 1 in 1952.
                                                                     ;
      AIVIVTJAL   REPORT, COIVIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                  31

                                                                   Identified by
Blankfort, Laurie (Lorry)                       David A. Lang, Mar.           24, 1953.
                                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1951.
Bogigian, Ellenore     (See Ellenore Ab-
  owitz.)
Bogner,    Max                                  Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,   1952 (released in
  Social worker.                                  1953).
                                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1952.
Bognoff, Sarah                                  Charles H. Garrigues, Mar, 27, 1953.
Bomser, Allan                                   Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953,
Bomser, Edith                                   Editli Macia, Mar. 28, 1953,
Bookc'hin, Nat                                  Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Boretz, Allen                                   David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1951.
Boyagian, Anita (also known as Anita            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
  Chatinover).
Boyer, Richard O.                        Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Brand, Phoebe (Mrs. Morris Carnov-       Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
    sky)                                 Also identified by 2 former Communists
  Actress.                                 in 1952 and by 1 in 1951.
                                                             ;


Bright, John                             Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Writer.                                  in New York).
       (Mr. Rossen testified that he be- Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
      lieved John Bright left the Com- David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
       munist Party.)                    Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953,
                                         Also identified by 5 former Communists
                                                  in 1951.
Bromberg, Goldie      (Mrs.    J.       Edward Pauline      S.   Townsend, Mar.      12, 1953.
  Bromberg)                                     Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                  in 1951 and by 1 in 19-52.
                                                             ;


Brooks, Lawn                                    Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Brooks, Miriam                                  Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Head, musician's branch, Communist              in 1953).
    Party
Brown, Carter                                   Anne Kinney, Dec.         22, 1952     (released
                                                  in 19.53).
Browne, Gus (Brown)                             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Browne, Marsha (Mrs. Gus Browne                 Edith Macia, Mar.       28,   1953
  (Brown) )
Buchman. Harold                       Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Screenwriter.                         in New York).
      (Appeared Apr. 17, 1951 refused
                                    ; David A. Lang, Mar. 24. 1953
      to afhrm or deny Communist Pauline S. Townsend. Mar. 12. 1953
      Party membership.)              Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953
                                      Also identified by four former Commu-
                                                  nists in 1951.
Buchman, Mrs. Harold                            Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
Burke, Bea                                      Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                                  19.53).
Burke, Libby                                    (Investigation identifying Libby Burke
  Dancer.                                         as a member of the Communist Party
      (Appeared Mar. 30, 19.53 refused
                                    ;             has not been made public.)
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Burns, Georgia                                  Harold Hecht, Mar.       23, 1953
  Actress  member.
            ;           Federal    theater
    unit of the   Communist    Party, New
    York.
Burns, Jessie                                   Danny Dare, Mar. 23, 1953
  Studio reader.                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1952 and by 3 in 1951.
                                                             ;


Burnstein, Clare     (Mrs.    Russell     Wm.   Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953
  Burnstein).
32    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                         Identified by
Bnrnstein, Russell William                            Babbette Lang, June           2,   1953
  Studio enyiiieer.
Burrows, Ruth                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
Burton, Val                                           David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953
  Writer.                                             Also identified by a former Communist
                                                        in 1952.
Bush, Rose                                            Anne Kinney, Dec.        22,   1952 (released in
  Communist               Party       underground       1953).
     worker.                                          Also identified by a former Communist
                                                        in 1951.
Butler, Hugo                                          Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Screenwriter.                                         in New York).
                                                      David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953
                                                      Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953
                                                      Also identified bv 2 former Communists
                                                        in 1952; and by 2 in 1951.
Byler, Albert                                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Euulueer, Los Angeles Board of Edu-                   1953).
     cation.
Byrne, Norman                         LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar. 27, 1953
  Plumber former teacher.
                ;
                                      Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953
      (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; refused Anne Kinney, Dec. 22. 19.52 (released in
      to affirm or deny Communist       1953) and by 1 in 1952.
         Party membership.)
Callender, Jane                                       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.53
Campbell, Harry                                       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953
Carey, Honor^ Moxley                                  LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar. 27, 19.53
  Teacher.                                            Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953
         (Anne Kinney testified that she              Aime Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
         believed Honort^ Carey dropped                 1953)
         out of the Communist Party
         te:icber's unit.   )


Carlyle,Harry (or Harry Carlisle)                     Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953
  Communist Party functionary;                orig-   Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953
    inally from Australia.                            Also identified by a former Communist
                                                        in 1952; and by 3 in 1951.
Carnovsky, Morris                                     Larry Parks, Mar. 21, 1951 (released in
  Actor.                                                1953)
         (Appeared Apr.         24,   1951; refused   Lee   J. Col)b.   June   2,   1953
              to affirm   or deny       Communist Also      identified by 2       former Communists
        Party membership.)                              in 1952    ;
                                                                       and by 2     in 1951.
Carnovsky, Mrs. Morris. (See Phoebe
    Brand.)
Caroway,       J.                                     Identified in Communist Party publica-
  President,         branch, Communist
                    Day                                 tion introduced into the record during
     Party in Los Angeles.                              testimony of Anne Kinney, Dec. 22,
                                                        19.52   (released in 1953).
Carr, Joe                                             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953
Carson, Jules                                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Director, Communist Party training                    1953)
     school, Los Angeles.
Carufo, Jessie                                        Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953
Casluier, Milton                                      Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Social worker.                                        1953)
Chamberlin, Howland                                   Anne Kinney, Dec.        22,   1952 (released in
  Actor.                                                1953)
      (Appeared Sept. 18, 1951 refused    ;

          affirm or deny Communist
         to
      Party membership.)
Chamberlin. Mrs. Howland. (SeeLeona
     McGiiity.)
Chapman, Clarice (Mrs. Tom Chapman)                   Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953
                                                      Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953
Chapman, Tom                                          Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953
  Screen reader.                                      Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953
                                                      Also identified by a former Communist
                                                        in 1951.
         ANjSTUAL report,    committee on UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       33
                                                              Identified by
Chassen, Jack                                   Edith Macia, Mar.   28, 1953
Cliassen, Miriam (Mrs. Jack Chassen)            Edith Macia, Mar.   28, 1953
Chatiiiover, Auita.  (See Anita Boya-
  gian.)
Chodorov, Edward (Ed)                           Jerome Robbins, May   5, 1953 (testifying
  Writer producer.
            ;
                                                  in New York)
                                                Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953
                                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1951.
Clark, Maurice                                  Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Writer.                                         in New York)
                                                Bart Lytton, Mar. 26, 1953
                                                David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1958
                                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953
                                                Also identitied by three foi-mer Commu-
                                                  nists in 1951.
Cline,   Paul (see also section of this   re-   Charles H. Garrigues, Mar. 27, 1953.
    port regarding the hearings held            Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952. (Released
    in San Francisco).                            in 1953.)  Also identified by 4 former
  Communist Party functionary.                    Communists in 1952 and by 3 in 1951.
                                                                        ;


Cloner, Sam                                     Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
  Craft worker.
Cohen, Sue                                      Anne Kinney, Dec.     22,   1952 (released
  Member, Hyde Park branch, Com-                  in 1953).
    munist Party, Chicago.
Cohn, Bob (also known as Bob Cole)              Anne Kinney, Dec.    22, 1952 (released
    (see also section of this report re-          in 1953.)   Also identified by a form-
    garding the hearings held in San              er   Communist   in 1952.
    Francisco).
Cole, Beatrice Lubitz                   Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Cole, Johnny                            Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
Cole, Lester                            Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Writer.                                 in New York).
       (Appeared Oct. 30, 1947; refused David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
       to affirm or deny Communist Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
       Party membership.)               Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953. Also
                                          identified by 2 former Communists in
                                          1952 and by 9 in 1951.
                                                          ;


Comingore, Dorothy                      David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953. Also
  Actress.                                identified by a former Communist in
       (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused    1952.
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Cooper, Bert                            Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953.
  Member radio group, Communist
    Party.
Corey, Jeff                                     Lee J.Cobb, June 2, 1953. Also identi-
  Actor.                                          fiedby a former Communist in 1952;
         (Appeared Sept. 21, 1951; re-            and by 1 in 1951.
         fused to affirm or deny Commu-
         nist   Party membership.)
Crutcher, Nerval (Norville)                     Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
  Organizer, Technicians local,      lATSE.       Also identified by a former Commu-
                                                  nist in 1951.
Curtis, Paul                                    David A. Lang, Mar.    24, 1953.
  Writer.
Davis, Herbert (C. P. name for Herbert
    Goldfrank).
Dawson, Sadie (Mrs. Ernest Dawson)              Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Dicho, John                                     Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Dimsdale, Harold                                Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Dimsdale, Howard                                David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                       Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953. Also
                                                  identified by a former Communist in
                                                  1951.
34      ANlSrUAL REPORT,             COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                        Identified by
Dinam, Andreas                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Doberty, John                                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Donath, Ludwig                                         Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
  Actor.
Dow, James                                             Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
Downs, Tommy                                           Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Drdlik, Frank                                          Charlotte Darling Adams, Mar.              26,
  Set designer.                                          and June 2, 1953.
Dreyfus, Rose                                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
D'Usseau, Arnaud.     {See section                on
  hearings held in New York City.)
Eastman, Philip Dey                     Bernyce Polifka Fleury, Sept. 10, 1951
  Artist and writer.                       (released in 1953).
       (Appeared Mar. 23, 1953, refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Edgley, Leslie (Les)                    Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                        Also identified by a former Communist
                                                         in 1952.
Edgley, Mrs. Les                                       Pauline  S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Eliscu (Elisku),           Edward                      David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                              Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                                         in 1951.
Ellis, Charles.         (See Charles Stone.)
Emer, Fanny                                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Emer, Frank                                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Endfield, Cyril (Cy)                                   David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer director.
            ;
                                                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                                         in 1951.
Endore,    Guy                                         Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
     Writer.                                             in New York).
                                                       David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
                                                       Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                       Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
                                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                                         in 1952 and by one in 1951.
                                                                    ;


Endore, Henriette (Mrs. Guy Endore)                    Babbette Lang. June 2, 1953.
Englehardt, Jack                                       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
Faragoh, Francis Edward                                Meta Reis Rosenberg, Apr. 13, 1951.
     Former     writer.                                Edward Dmytryk, Apr. 25, 1951.
         (Appeared Mar.     1953; re- Martin Berkeley, Sept. 19, 1951.
                                    24,
         fused     to     deny Com-
                           affirm   or
      munist Party membership.)
Faragoh, Elizabeth (Mrs. Francis Far- Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  agoh)                               Also identified by a former Communist
                                                          in 1951.
 Fargo, Evelyn                                         Anne Kinney, Dec.        22,     1952 (released
     Former     officer.   United Auto Workers            in 1953).
       local,   Chicago.
Fast,    Howard                                        Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
     Author, writer,                                   Also identified by a former Communist
                                                          in 1952.
 Finn, Pauline Lauber (also               known   as   Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
     Pauline Lauber)                                     in New York).
                                                       Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying
                                                         in New York).
                                                       Danny Dare, Mar. 23, 1953.
                                                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                                          in 1951.
 Fisher,   Ed                                           Edith Macia, Mar.     28, 1953.
     Formerly of San Francisco.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON TJN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                   35
                                                                   Identified by
Fisher, Mrs.   Ed                                 Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
  Formerly of      San Francisco.
Fisher, Eddie                                     Anne Kinney, Dec.     22,   1952 (released in
  Salesman.                                         1953).
Fisher, Mrs. Eddie.     {See   Anya     Lieber-
    son.)
Foreman, Carl                          David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Screenwriter                         Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
      (Appeared Sept. 24, 1951 refused Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
                                    ;


      to affirm or deny Communist Also identified by 2 former Communists
      Party membership.)                 in 1952 and by 1 in 1951.
                                                               ;



Foreman, Estelle (Mrs. Carl Foreman) David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
                                       Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
Fox, Jack                              Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Member pharmacist       branch,       Commu-      1953).
    nist Party, in   Los Angeles.
Franchi (Franche, Franchia), Davida Anne Kinney, Dec.                   22,   1952 (released in
  (Mrs. Fred Franchi)                               1953).
                                                  Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                    in 1952.
Frank, Michael                                    Edith Macia, Mar. 2, 1953.
Freed, Emil                                       Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Communist Party functionary presi-  in;                1953).
    dent, east  branch,   Communist Also                identified by a former     Communist
    Party.                                          in 1952 ; by 1 in 1951.
Freed, Tassia (Mrs. Emil Freed)                   Anne Kinney, Dec.     22, 1952 (released in
                                                    1953).
Freeman, Sidney                                   LeRoy Herndon,   Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
Freud, Rosalind                                   Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Freund, Burton                                    Edith Macia, I\Iar. 28, 1953.
Friedman, Fanya                                   Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                                    1953).
Froelich,   Anne                                  Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                  Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 19.53.
Fuller, Gertrude (Mrs. Lester Fuller)             Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
Fuller, Lester                                    Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Motion-picture director.                        Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                                    in   New   York).
Fuss, Oscar                                       Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,   1952 (released
                                                    in 1953).
Gannett, Betty (see aUo section of this           Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,   1952 (released
    report on hearings held in San                  in 1953).
    Francisco).
  Communist Party functionary.
                                                  Also identified by 3 former Commimists
                                                    in 1952 and by 2 in 1951.
Garber, Dora                                      Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Gardner, Helen                                    Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Communist Party functionary.                      in 1953).
Gelfand, Sam                                      Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,   1952 (released
  Social worker for State relief ad-                in 1953).
    ministration.
George, Harrison (see also section of             Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,   1952 (released
    this report on hearings held in San             in 1953).
    Francisco).
  On staff. Daily People's World.
Gerber, Lillian (Mrs. Serrill Gerber)             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Gerber, Serrill (see also section of this         Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.53.
    report regarding the hearings held            Lou Rosser, Jan. 15, 1952 (identified as
    in San Francisco).                              a member of the Young Communist
  Elementary schoolteacher.                         League).
      (Appeared Apr. 7, 195.3; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
36     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                                           Identified hy
Geyer,  Jacob           (also    known           as     Jack   Edith Macia, Mar.                 28, 1953.
  Geyer)
Geyer, Sara                                                    Edith Macia, Mar.                 28, 1953.
Gilbert, Ed                                                    Charlotte L^arling Adams, Mar. 26, and
  Set designer.                                                  June             2,   1953.
                                                               Also identilied by a former Communist
                                                                 in 1951.
Gilbert,       Jody                                            Harvey Narcisenfeld, Nov.                   12,   1952 (re-
  Actress.                                                       leased in 1953).
         (Appeared Mar. 26, 1953 refused         ;


          toaffirm or deny Communist
         Party membership.)
Gilder,    Harry                                               Edith Macia, Mar.                  28, 1953.
Ginsberg, Jack                                                 Anne Kinney, Dec.                 22, 1952 (released in
                                                                 19.53       ) .


Ginsberg, Margaret (Mrs. Jack Gins-                            Anne Kinney, Dec.                  22,    1952 (released
  berg)                                                          in 1953).
Gladstone, Charles (also known as Joe                          Edith Macia, Mar.                 28, 1953.
  Young)
Glenn, Charles (Charley)                                       Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying in
  Writer; correspondent                  for           Daily     New York).
    People's World.                                            Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
                                                                 Also identified by 2 former Com-
                                                                 munists in 1952; and by 3 in 1951.
Glickman, Kelly                                                Danny Dare, Mar. 23, 1953.
Gold, Lee                                                      Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Writer.
Goldfrank,   Herbert             (Party               name:    Silvia Richards,                Mar.   25, 1953.
     Herbert Davis)
  On   staff of "Soviet         Russia Today."
Goldstein,      Mary                                           Edith Macia, Mar,                28, 1953.
  Owner        of a cleaning shop with                   Mr.
     Goldstein.
Goodman, Becky                                                 Anne Kinney, Dec.                22,   1952 (released in
  Nursery-school teacher.                                        1953).
Goodman, Benny (not to be confused Anne Kinney, Dec.                                            22, 1952 (released in
    with the baud leader).           1953).
Gordon, Don                                                    Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
  Screen    reader    assistant
                         ;        editor,
                                                               Also identitied by a former Communist
    studio story department.                                     in 3951.
       (Appeared Sept. 24, 11)51 refused     ;

      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Gordon, Emily (Mrs. Julian Gordon)                             Anne Kinney, Dec.                22,   1952 (released in
  (Louise Light Silver testified on Jan.                         1953).
    21, 19.52, that she believed Emily                         Also identified by a former Communist
    Gordon had broken with the party.)                           in 1952.
Gordon, Julian                                                 Anne Kinney, Dec.                22,   1952 (released in
  Manufacturer of accessories for mo-                            19.53   )    .



     tion-picture producer.                                    Max   Silver, Jan. 24, 1952                 (released in
       (Appeared Mar. 24, 1953; ad-    1953).
       mitted former Communist Party Louis Rosser, Jan.                                         15,   1952 (released in
       membership but refused to an-                             1953).
       swer questions regarding the
      group to which he belonged, but
      not on constitutional grounds.)
Gorney, Jay.   {8cc section on hearings
     held in     New York       City.)
Gorney, Sondra (Mrs. Jay Gorney)                               Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                               Also identified by a former Communist
                                                                 in 1952 and by 1 in 1951.
                                                                                   ;


Gough, Lloyd                                                   Larry Parks, Mar. 21, 1951 (released in
  Actor.                                                         1953).
       (Appeared         May    17,   1951   ;       refused   Jerome Robbins, May                5,    1953 (testifying
       to      affirmdeny Communist
                         or           in New York).
       Party membership).           Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                                 in 1952.
     ANNUAL REPORT,              COIVDVIITTEE   ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                           37

                                                                      Identified by

Grant, Carl                                     Anne Kinney, Dec.             22, 1952      (   released
  In theater     branch     of    Communist       in 1953).
  Party.
Grant. Elizabeth (Betty) (Mrs. Morton Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Grant).                             Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in   195L

Grant, Morton                                   Robert Rossen,          May   7,    1953 (testifying
  Writer.                                         in   New York         City).
                                                David A. Lang, Mar.  24, 1953.
                                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                Also identified by three former Com-
                                                  munists in 1951.
Green, Anne (Mrs.      Howard Koch)             Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 195,3.
Grennard, Elliott                               David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 195.:.
Hancock, Stanley                                Charles H. Garrigues, Mar. 27, 1953.
  Conununist Party functionary,          San
  Diego, 1937.
Handle, Reva                                    Anne Kinney, Dec.             22,    1952   (released
  Member Studebaker branch.          Commu-       in 1953).
    nist Party, in     Chicago.
Handman, Nina                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Harper, Annette                        Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying
  Actress, radio.                        in New York).
       (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953.
      to affirm or deny Communist Also identified by two former Commu-
       Party membership.)                nists in 1952.
Harris, Lou                            Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
  Publicity man.                         in New York).
                                                Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
                                                Also identified by four former                  Commu-
                                                  nists in 1951.
Hay, Marjorie                                   LeRoy Herndon,  Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
  Former teacher     secretary of teach-
                       ;
                                                Richard Pyrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953.
    er's union, Los Angeles, local 430.         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
                                                  in   1953 )   .




Healey (Healy), Donald (Don)                    Anne Kinney, Dec.
                                                        22, 1952 (i-eleased in
  Painters union attended Communist
                   ;                   1953).
    Party training school, San Fran- Also identified by a former Communist
    cisco.                                        in 1951.
Healey (Healy), Dorothy                         Charles H. Garrigues, Mar. 27, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.                  Also identified by five former Commu-
                                                  nists in 1952.
Hellgren, George                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Studio employee.
Heltness, Al                                    Anne Kinney, Dec.             22,    1952   (released
                                                  in 1953).
Henry, Milton                         Identified in Communist Party publi-
  President, Hollywood studio branch,   cation introduced into the record dur-
    Communist Party.                    ing testimony of Anne Kinney, Dec.
                                                  22, 19,52         (released in 1953).
Heron. Lillian                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Hershey, Edith                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Hignian, Neil {see also section of this Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1953 (released
    report regarding the hearings held    in 1953).
    in San Francisco).
  Retired teacher.
Hillierman. David (Dave)                        Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
  Screen cartoonist.                            Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                  in 1951.
Hilherman, Libby (Mrs. Dave Hilber-             Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
  man)                                          Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1951.
38       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                        Identified iy
Hinman,        Luke,     Communist        Party Roland W. Kibbee, June                     2,   1958.
  union organizer.
Hirsch, B.                                        Edith Macia, Mar.            28, 1953.
  Transferred from a Chicago             Commu-
    nist Party group.
Hobart, Rose                                      Lee   J.    Cobb. June       2,    1953.
  Actress.
Holmstock, Ethel                                  Anne Kinney, Dec.                 22,   1952 (released
  Former      secretary, China    Aid Council.      in 1953).
Holtz, Doreen                                     Edith Macia, Mar.            28, 1953.
Holtz, Miriam                                     Anne Kinney, Dec.              22, 1952         (released
  Stenographer.                                     in 1953).
Hopkins, Pauline (former wife of          Owen    Silvia Richards,        Mar.  25, 1953.
    Vinson)                                       Roy Erwin, Mar.           31, 1953.
  Writer.                                         Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying in
                                                    New York).
                                                  Also identified by a former Communist
                                                    in 1952.
Horn, Sam                                         Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Hovey, Tamara (Tammie)                            Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Writer.
Howard, Evelyn (Mrs. Maurice How- Charlotte Darling Adams, June                                    2,   1953.
  ard)
Howard, Maurice                                   Charlotte Darling Adams, June                    2,   1953.
  Business      agent,   Screen    Cartoonist
     Guild.
Howe, Ann                            Anne Kinney, Dee.                              22,   1952 (released
  Former executive secretary of Con-   in 1953).
     temporary Theater.
Hubley, John                                      Charlotte Darling Adams, June                    2,   1953.
  Cartoonist.
Hudson, Henry                                     Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Huebsch, Edward                                   David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                         Also identified by 3 former Communists
      (Appeared Mar. 23, 1953 refused;
                                                    in 1952 and by 3 in 1951.
                                                                 ;


       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Hunter, Alice (Mrs. Ian Hunter)       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                      Also   identified by a former Com-
                                        munist in 1951.
Ingham, Bill (William)                Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released Ib
  Communist Party functionary.          1953).
                                      Also identified by a former Communist
                                                    in 1951.
Ingham, Nina (Mrs.       Bill   Ingham)           Anne Kinney, Dec.              22,      1952 (released
  Burbank.                                          in 1953).
Isaacman, Morris                                  Edith      INIacia,   Mar.    28, 1953.
Jacobson, Libby                                   Anne Kinney, Dec.            22, 1952 (released in
     President,    Wilshire branch, Com-            1953).
         munist Party.
James,   Dan                            David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                               Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
       (Appeared Sept. 19, 1951 refused Bart Lytton, Mar. 26, 1953.
                                     ;

      to affirm or deny Communist Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
      Party membership.)                  in New York).
                                        Also identified by two former Com-
                                          munists in 1951.
James, Lilith (Mrs. Dan James)          Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer.                               Bart Lytton, Mar. 26, 1953.
       (Appeared Sept. 19, 1951; re- Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
       fused to affirm or deny Com-       in New York).
      munist Party membership. )        Also identified by a former Communist
                                          in 1952 and by one in 1951.
                                                                ;
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON            UN-AJVIERICAN ACTIVITIES                      39
                                                            Identified hy
Janis, Louise                          Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Jarrico, Paul                          David A, Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer,                              Max Benoff, Mar. 24, 1953.
       (Appeared Apr. 13, 1951 refused Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                               ;

       to aflirm or deny Commuuist       in New York).
       Party membership.)              Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                         in 1952 by 7 in 1951 and by a former
                                                    ;                     ;


                                         Communist in 1951 as a member of
                                         the Young Communist League.
Jeffrey, John                          Anne Kinney, Dec, 22, 1952 (released in
  Social worker.                         1953).
Jerome, V. J.                          Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.         Leonard Patterson, July 7, 1953 (testi-
        (Appeared Mar. 8, 1951 refused
                               ;        fying in New York).
       to affirm or deny Communist Also identified by 5 former Communists
       Party membership.)                in 19.52 and by 6 in 1951.
                                                        ;


Johnson, Edith                         Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Jones, Lillian                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
   Secretary of worker's school, Los     in 1953).
     Angeles.                          Also identified by a former Communist
                                            in 1951.
Judis, Harry                              Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Judis, ilinnie (Mrs.   Harry Judis)       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Kahn, Gordon                              Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
  Writer.                                 David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
                                          Max Benoff. Mar. 24, 1953.
                                          Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                          Also identified by four former Com-
                                            munists in 1952 and by seven in 1951.
                                                                ;


Kalish, Sam                               LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
  Night-school teacher in Los Angeles.    Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 19.53.
                                          Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1953 (released
                                            in 1953).
Kanter, Shirley                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Kaplan, Sol                           (Investigation identifying Mr. Kaplan
  Musician and composer, Los Angeles.   as a member of the Communist
      (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refused   Party has not been made pubUc.)
      to   affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Karson, Bobbie                            Edith   Macia,    Mar.     28,      1953.
Karson, Charles                           Edith   Macia,    Mar.     28,      1953.
Karson, Ethel                             Edith   Macia,    Mar.     28,      1953.
Karson, Morris (also known as "Red"'      Edith   Macia,    Mar.     28,      1953.
  Karson)
Kelleher, June (nickname: "Kay")          Edith Macia, Mar.          28, 1953.
Keller, Evelyn                            Anne Kinney, Dec.           22, 1953        (released
  Clerk, United Office and Professional     in 1953).
     Workers of America, Chicago,
Kelly, Jane Dawson                        Edith Macia, Mar.          28, 1953.
Kibre, Jeff (also known as Barry Wood)    Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.            Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
                                          Also identified by three former Com-
                                            munists in 1951.
Killian, Victor, Sr.                      Larry Parks, Mar.         21,   1951 (released in
  Actor.                                    1953).
       (Appeared Apr. 13, 1951 refused
                                   ;      Lee J. Cobb, June
                                                        2, 1953.
       to affirm or deny Communist Also identified by a former Communist
       Party membership.)                in 1951.
Klein, Herbert                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Newspaperman.                             in 1953).
       (Appeared Sept. 18, 1951; re-      Also identified by 4 former Communists
      cused to affirm or deny Commu-        in 1952 and by 3 in 1951.
                                                        ;


       nist Party membership.)
Klein, Minna (Mrs. Herbert Klein)         Anne Kinney,       Dec. 22, 1952 (released
                                            in 1953).
                                          Also identified by 4 former             Communists
                                           in 1952 and by 2 in 1951.
                                                    ;
40    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                 Identified   htj

Klein, Phil                                       Charlotte Darling Adams, June               2,      1953.
  Member    of cartoonist group,           Com-
     munist Party.
Kline, Joe                                        Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.53.
Kliue, Rose (Mrs. Joe Kline)                      Edith M.Mcia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Klowden, Nina                                     Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953.
  Kadio actress.                                  Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 19.53.
                                                  Cariu Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying in
                                                    New York).
                                                  Also identified by two former Commu-
                                                    nists iu 1952.
Koch, Mrs. Howard.          {See   Anne Green.)
Koeniu', Lester                                   David  A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer; associate producer.                     Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
      (Appeared Sept. 24, lO.jl refused;
                                                  Also identitied by a foi-mer Communist
      to aliirm or deny Communist                   in 1951.
       I'arty iiieiubersliip.)
Kromher.irer, Joe                                 Charlotte Darling Adams, June                  2,   1953.
  Studio electrician.
Kusiiitz,    Sara                                 Edith Macia, Mar.   28, 1953.
  President,    fi.'^d   assembly district        Anne Kinney, Dec.   22,     1952 (released in
     branch. Communist Party.                       1!)53).
Laserfin. Pauline                                 David A. Lang, Mar.       24, 1953.
  Writer.
LauibtMt. Rude.        (Sec also section of       Anne Kinney, Dec.   22,     1952 (released in
     tbis report regarding the hearings             19.53).
    held in San Francisco.)                       Also identified by a former            Communist
  Coiiiniun'st I'arty functionary.                  in 1951.
Laniliert,   Walter                               Anne Kiimey, Dec.   22,     1952 (released in
  Teacher, Conmmnist Party training                 1953).
     scbdol, S;in Francisco, 1938.
Lain pell, Millard                                David  A. Lang, Mar. 24, 19.5.3.
  Writer.                                         Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
Lanipell, Mrs. Millard                            Silvia Richards. Mar. 25. 19.53.
Landall, Edith                                    Edith Macia. Mar. 28, 1953.
Lardiiei-, King, Jr.                              David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                         Mas Benoff, Mar. 24, 1953.
       (Appeared Oct.        30. 1947; refused    Sol Slior, Mar. 12, 195.3.
       to    afhrni    or   deny     Communist    I'auline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
       Party membersliip.)                        Roland W. Kibbee. June             2, 195.3.
                                                  Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                                    in New York).
                                                  Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                    in 1952: hj 4 in 1951 and as a mem-
                                                                                 ;


                                                    ber of the Young Communist League
                                                    by a former Communist in 1951.
Larkin, Catherine                                 Babbette Lang, June       2,       1953.
Lauber, Pauline. (See Pauline Lauber
  Finn.)
Lawson, John Howard                               Dannv Dare, Mar.     23, 1953.
  Writer.                                         Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 19.5.3.
        (Appeared Oct.       27, 1947; refused    David A. LauL', Mar. 24, 1953.
       to     affirm   or
                     deny            Communist    Max Benoff, Mar. 24, 1953.
       Party membership.)                         Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                  Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                  Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                  Larrv Parks, Mar. 21, 1951 (released
                                                    in 19.53).
                                                  Roland W. Kibbee. June 2, 1953.
                                                  Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
                                                  Bart Lytton, Mar. 26, 19.53.
                                                  Robert Ro.ssen, May 7, 19.53 (testifying
                                                    in New York).
                                                  Also identified by 4 former                Commu-
                                                                  and by 11 in 1951.
                                                    nists in 19.52;
Lawson, Kate (Mrs. John Lawson)                   Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                      41

                                                                     Identified by
Lazar, Jack                                            Edith Macia, Mar.   28, 1953.
Lazarus, Simon          1\I.                           (Investigation identifying Mr. Lazarus
  Owner         of   Independent Productions             as a member of the Communist Party
    Corp.                                                has not been made public.)
       (Appeared Mar. 26, 19.13 refused    ;


         to afBrm or deny Coumiunist
        I'artj- menjbership.)
Leech, Elizabeth (Mrs. Charles Glenn)                  Anne Kinney, Dec.   22,   1952 (released in
  Communist Party functionary.                           19.-)3).
                                                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                       Bart Lytton, INIar. 26, 19.53.
                                                       Also identified by 2 former Commu-
                                                         nists in 1952; and by 5 in 1951.
Leech, John                                            Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Communist Party functionary.                           19.53).
                                                       Also identified by 4 former       Commu-
                                                         nists in 1951.
Lees, Jean                                             Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
Leonard, Charles                                       David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  AVritei   .                                          Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
                                                       Also identilied by a former Communist
                                                         in 1951.
Leonard, Helen (Mrs. Charles Leonard)                  David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 19.53.
                                                       I'auline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                       Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
Levitt. Alfred (Al)                                    David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  AVriter.                                             Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
       (Appeared Sept. IS,  lO.jl re- Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                ;


         fused to affirm ordeny Com- Also identilied by a former Communist
        munist Party membership.)       in 1952; and by 1 in 1951.
Lewis. Al                             Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Teacher.                              19.53).
                                      Richard Byrd Lewis, IVIar. 27, 1953.
Lewis, Matilda (Mrs. Al Lewis)        Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Principal,Park Ave. School.                            1953).
       (Appeared Apr. 13, 11)53; denied                LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
        present membership in the                      Itichard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953.
            Communist Party, but refused
            to testify     concerning past      mem-
            bership.)

Lewitzky,        Bella         (Mrs.   Newell   Rey-   Anne Kinney, Dec.     22,   1952 (released
    nolds)                                               in 1953).
  Dancer.
       (Appeared Sept. 12, 1951; re-
       fused to affirm or deny Commu-
       nist Party membership.)
Lieberson, Anya (Mrs. Eddie Fisher)                    Anne Kinney, Dec.     22,   1952 (released
  President, 65th assembly      district                 in 1953).
    branch Communist Party,
Lockett, Albert                                        Anne Kinney, Dec.     22, 1952    (released
  Burbank.                                               in 1953).
Looschen, John                                         (Investigation identifying Mr. Looschen
  Building contractor, Malibu, Los                       as a member of the Communist Party
    Angeles County former studio car-
                                ;
                                                         has not been made public.)
    penter.
       (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Losey, Louise (Mrs. Joseph Losey nee            ;
                                                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Louise Moss.)                                        Also identified by a former Communist
                                                         in 1951.
Lusher, Bernard                                        (Investigation identifying Mr. Lusher
  Union organizer.                                       as a member of the Communist Party
      (Appeared Mar. 28, 1953; refused                   has not been made public.)
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
       47400     — 54          4
42     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                      Identified hy
Lyon, Peter                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Radio writer, New York.                           Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
McClosky, Joe                                       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
McCombe, Daniel                                     (Investigation identifying Mr.      Mc-
  Barber.                                             Combe as a member of the Commu-
      (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953: refused                 nist Party has not been made public.)
       toaffirm or deny Communist
      Party membersliip. )
McCormiek, LaRne                      Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Communist Party functionary.          in 1953).
McDonald, Florence                    Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
McGinty, Leona (Mrs. Howland Cham- Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
     berlin )                                         in 1953).
  (See also section of this report re-
    garding the hearings held in San
    Francisco.)    Communist Party
    functionary.
McGrath, Thomas Matthew                             (Investigation  identifying         Mr. Mc-
  Assistant professor, Los                Angeles     Grath as a member of the         Communist
     State College.                                   Party has not been made public.)
       (Appeared Apr. 13, 1953 refused;


       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
McLean, George                                      Anne Kinney, Dec.        22,   1952 (released
  Longshoreman, San Pedro.                            in 1953).
McVey, Paul                                         Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953.
  Radio actor.                                      Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953.
      (Mr. Dwight Hauser testified                  Carin Kinzel, May        5,   1953 (testifying
      that he believed Paul McVey had                 in New York).
      left the Communist Party.)
McVey, Mrs. Paul                 Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953.
MacGregor, Marjorie (Mrs. Arnold Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Manoff)                        Also identified by five former Commu-
                                                      nists in 1951.
Maddow, Ben                                         Pauline   S.   Townsend, Mar.     12, 1953.
  Screen writer.
       (Appeared Mar. 28, 1953; re-
       fused to affirm or deny Commu-
       nist     Party membership.)
Maise, Wilhelmina                                   Anne Kinney, Dec.        22, 1952    (released
                                                      in 1953).
Mallof, Helen                                       Anne Kinney, Dec.        22,   1952 (released
                                                      in 1953).
Malloy, Rose                                        Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Malloy, Sophia                                      Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Maltz, Albert                                       Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
  Writer.                                           Max Benoff, Mar. 24, 1953.
       (Appeared Oct.         28, 1947;   refused   Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
       to     affirm   or
                     deny           Communist       Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
       Party membership.)                           Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                      in 1952 and by 6 in 1951.
                                                               ;


Maltz, Margaret (Mrs. Albert Maltz)                 Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
Manoff, Arnold                                      David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                           Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
                                                    Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                    Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                    Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
                                                    Also identified by two former Commu-
                                                      nists in 1951.
Manoff, Marjorie.           (See Marjorie Mac-
  Gregor. )
March, Jane                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Member, Studebaker branch of Com-   in 1953).
    munist Party, Chicago.
Martin, Betty.                      Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                                     1953).
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                     43
                                                            Identified hy

Martin, Henriette (Henrietta)               David A. Lang, Mar. 24. 1953.
  Writer.                                   Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Matlin, Zema                                Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                              1953).
Matsuto, John                               Identified in   Communist Party            publi-
  President, Japanese Branch,        Com-     cation introduced into the record dur-
    munist Party, Los Angeles.                ing testimonv of Anne Kinney, Dec.
                                              22, 1952 (released 1953).
Mayer, Jean                                 Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Communist Party functionary.                1953).
Maymadus, Abraham                           Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Worked for International Workers            1953).
    Order.
Mazer, Herman                               Edith Macia, Mar. 28. 1953.
Meyers, Henry                               David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                   Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                       Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                         in New York).
                                       Also identified by three former Com-
                                         munists in 1952: and by one in 1951.
Mindlin, Eunice                        David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Secretary member Communist Party Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
              ;


    writer's group, Hollywood.
Mlnkus, Abraham (Abe)                  LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
  Teacher.                             Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953.
       (Appeared Mar. 27 and 30, 1953; Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
      refused to affirm or deny Com-     1953).
      munist Party membership.)
Minkus, Libby (Mrs. Abe Minkus)        Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                              1953).
                                            LeKoy Herndon,       Jr.,   Mar.   27, 1953.
Michel, Josef (Joseph)                      Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer.                              Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
      (Appeared Sept. 24, 1951 refused
                                 ;
                                         in New York).
      to affirm or deny Communist Also identified by a former Communist
      Party membership.)                 in 1951.
Moore, Jack                            Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
  Communist Party functionary, Los       1953).
    Angeles County carpenter.
                     ;
                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                              in 1951.
Moore, Mrs. Patricia (Patsy)           Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Moore, Sam                             Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Writer.                              Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953.
       (Appeared Apr. 17, 1951 refused Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953.
                                 ;


      to affirm or deny Communist Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying
      Party membership.)                 in New York).
                                       Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                         in New York).
                                       Also identified by two former Commu-
                                         nists in 1952 and by one in 1951.
                                                             ;



Morgan,      Ann Roth    (see   Ann Roth
    Richards).
Morley, Hank                                Charlotte Darling Adams, June             2,   1953.
  Laboratory technician.
Morley, Karen                               Roy Erwin, Mar.      31, 1953.
  Actress.                                  Larry Parks, Mar.      21, 1951 (released in
       (Appeared Nov. 13, 1952 refused
                                 ;        1953).
      to   affirm or deny Communist Also identified by three former Com-
      Party membership.)                  munists in 1952 and by three in 1951.
                                                                  ;



Morris, M.                              Identified in Communist Party publica-
  President, Hans Eisler branch of Com-   tion introduced into the record during
    munist Party, Los Angeles (musi-      testimony of Anne Kinney, Dec. 22,
    cians branch).                            1952 (released in 1953).
Moskin, Frank                               Edith Macia, IMar. 28, 1953.
Moss, Jay                                   Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
                                               in 1953).
44       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                         Identified by
Moss, Louise {see Louise Losey.)
Most, Rose                                              Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,   1952 (released
  Social worker.                                          in 1953).
                                                        Also identified by a    former Communist
                                                          in 1952.
Mullen, Mrs. Virginia                                   (Investigation identifying Mrs. Mullen
  Actress.                                                as a Communist Party member has
       (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refused   not been made public.)
          affirm or deny Communist
         to
      Party membership.)
Murphy, Maurice (see also section of Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
    this report regarding the hearings Also identified by a former Communist
    held iu San Francisco).              in 1952 and by two in 1951. ;



Murray, Donald                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Actor.                                                  in 1953).
Myer, Irving                                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Nadler, Morton                                          Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Member Hyde Park branch              of       Com-      in 1953).
     munist Party, Chicago.
Nidiss, Bernie                                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Nolan, Mary (Mrs. Frank Nolan)                          Charlotte Darling Adams, June          2,   1953.
Norman, Billie                                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Norman, Harry                                           Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
North, .Joseph                                          David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary               ;   writ-
     er.
Numovna, Barta                                          Anne Kinney, Dec.     22, 1952 (released in
  Teacher.                                                1953).
                                                        LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
                                                        Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953.
Oats, Frank                                             Identified in Communist Party publi-
  President, Culver City studio branch,                   cation   introduced into the record
     Communist Party, lt)39.                              during testimony of Anne Kinney,
                                                          Dec. 22, 1952 (released 1953).
O'Connor,        Oleta   (Oleta      O'Connor           David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Yates)                                                Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
     Communist Party functionary        (see              1953).
         iiUo section of this report regard-            Also identified by a former Communist
         ing the hearings held in San                     in 1951.
         Francisco).
Offner,   Mortimer.       (See     section        on
  liearings held in      New York      City.)
Oleksink, Steve                                         Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
OlelvSiuk, Tillie                                       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Oliver, William E.       (Bill)                         Alice Bennett, May 22, 1952.
  Newspaperman; drama             critic.               Urcel Daniel, July 8, 1952.
         (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; refused
         to affirm or deny Communist
         Party membership.)
Olson,     Ben                                          Silvia Richards,    Mar.   25, 1953.
  Santa Monica.
Olson, Dorothy                                          Silvia Richards, Mar.      25, 1953.
  Santa Monica.
O'Neal, John                                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
O'Neal, Mrs. John                                       Edith j\Laeia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Oppenheimer, Frank                                      Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Professor, University of Minnesota                      in 1953).
       (Appeared June 14, 1949; ad-
         mitted    former   membership             in
       the Communist Party.)
Ornitz, Sadie (Mrs. Sam Ornitz)                         Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
                                                        Also identified by 2 former Communist
                                                          in 1951.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                           45
                                                                       Identified by
Ornitz,   Sam                          David A. Lang. Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer                               Roland W. Kibbee, June 2. 1953.
      (Appeared Oct. 29, 1947; refused Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
      to afBrra or deny Communist Also identified by a former Communist
      Party membership.)                 in 1952 and by 4 in 1951. ;




Orr, "Violet {see also section of this                Anne Kinney, Dec.     22,    1952 (released in
       report regarding the hearings                    1953).
       held in San Francisco).
Oser, Ruth                                            Babbette Lang, June 2, 19r)3.
Oster, Morris (also known as Alzar)                   Edith IMncia, Mar. 28. 19.53.
Oster, Nina                                           Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.T3.
Page, Charles Albert                                  Morris Appelman, Jan. 10, 1952.
  Former secretary Screen Writers                     Martin Berkeley, Sept.        19, 1951.
    Guild
      (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; testified
      he was not a member of the Com-
      munist Party prior to 1934 and
      subsequent to 1941 invoked the
                               ;


         fifth   amendment   in refusing to
         testify  concerning       the       period
         1934 to 1941.)

Palley, Henrietta                                     Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,    1952 (released
  Social worker.                                        in 1953).
                                                      Also identified   by a former Communist
                                                        in 1952.
Pate, Bob                                             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 195.3.
Pate, Helen (Mrs.        Bob Pate)                    Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Pearson, Rose                                         Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
  Member, Federal Theater unit of
     Communist Party, New York.
Peck, Trudy                                           Harold Hecht, Mar.      23, 1953.
  Member, Federal Theater unit of
     Communist Party, New York.
Perlin, Paul                                          Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 19.53.
  Studio worker                                       Also identified by a former Communist
       (Appeared Oct. 6. 1952; refused                  in 1952.
         to         deny Communist
               affirm   or
      Party membership.)
Perlman, Git (former Mrs. Maurice                     Edith Macia, Mar.      28, 1953.
  Perlman)
Perlman, Holly                                        Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Perlman, Maurice                                      Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Perlman, Norman                                       Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Perry, Pettis                                         Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Communist Party functionary.                          in 1953).
                                                      Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                                        in 1952; and by 1 in 1951.
Peterson, Henry                                       Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
  Studio carpenter.
Peterson, Hjalmar                                     Charlotte Darling Adams, June          2,   1953.
  Studio carpenter.
Pezman, Dorothy                                       Anne Kinney, Dec.      22,   1952 (released in
  Social worker.                                        1953).
                                                      Also identified by a former Communist
                                                        in 1952.
Place, Joan                          Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released                            in
  Member, United OflSce and Profes-    1953).
  sional Workers of America Chicago. ;

Pollin, Ben                          Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953.
  Member of radio group of Communist
    Party.
Polonsky, Abraham Lincoln (Abe)                       Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Director-writer.                                    Also identified by 2 former Comnmnists
          (Appeared Apr. 25, 1951 refused;
                                                        in 1952; and by 4 in 1951.
          to affirm or deny Communist
          Party membership.)
46    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                        Identified hy
Pomerance, Edwina                                        Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953^
                                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Pomerance, William           (Bill)                      Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
  Former executive   secretary, Screen                   Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
     Writers' Guild.                                     Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
        (Appeared Feb. 5, 1952; refused                    in New York).
       to affirm or deny Communist                       Also identified by 3 former Commimists
          Party membership.)                               in 1951.
Posell,    Joseph J.                                     Anne Kinney, Dec.        22,   1952 (released
                                                           in 1953).
Posell,Rose                                              LeRoy Herndon, Mar. 27, 1953.
  Elementary school teacher, Los An-                     Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released       in
     geles.                                                1953).
          (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; refused
          to affirm or deny Communist
          Party membership.)
Praeger, Stanley                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                         Bart Lytton, Mar. 26, 1953.
Pratt, Horace                                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Pratt, Ida (Mrs.        Horace Pratt)                    Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.53.
Putnam, Fred                                             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
  Tinsmith.
Radin (Raden),Mary (Mrs. Joe Aidlin) Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Employed office of Los Angeles County   in 19.53).
    Communist Party.                    Also identified by a former Communist
                                                           in 1951.
Rapf, John                                               Roy Erwin, Mar.     31, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
Rapf, Maurice                                            David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12. 1953.
                                                         Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
                                                         Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                                           in New York).
                                                         Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                                           in 1951 and by 1 in 1951 as a member
                                                                    ;


                                                           of the Young Communist League.
Rapf, Mrs. Maurice                                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 19-53.
Reddock, Arcus                                           Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 19-52 (released
  Arizona attended Communist Party
               ;
                                                           in 1953).
    training school in San Francisco in
     1938.
Reichman, Charles                                        Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Revere,    Ann                                           Larry Parks, Mar. 21, 1951 (released in
  Actress.                                                 1953).
          (Appeared Apr.      17,   1951   ;   refused   Lee J. Cobb, June   2,   1953.
       to      affirmdeny Communist
                        or
       Party membership.)
Reynolds, Mrs. Bella Lewitzky.  (See
  Bella Lewitzky.)
Richards, Ann Roth Morgan (Mrs. Rob-                     Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
    ert Richards)                                          in New York).
  Housewife.                                             Bart Lytton, Mar. 26, 1953.
       (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; re-                     Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
      fused to affirm or deny Com-                       Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
      munist Party membership.)                          Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
                                                         David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
                                                         Also identified by a former Communist
                                                           in 1952; by one in 1951.
Richards, Robert                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer.                                                Also identified by a former Communist
       (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; re-                       in 1952.
       fused to affirm or deny Commu-
       nist Party membership.)
      ANNUAL            REi^ORT,   COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                     47
                                                              Identified hy

Richardson, Jean                             Anne Kinney, Dec.       22,    1952 (released
  San Diego; attended       Communist          in 1953).
    Party training school in San Fran-
    cisco, 1938.
Rinaldo, Fred                                Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer.                                    Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                               in New York).
                                             Also identified by 4 former Communists
                                               in 1951.
Rinaldo, Marie.                              Mildred Benoff, Feb. 17, 1953.
                                             Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                             Also identified by a former Communist
                                               in 1951.
Riskin, Alexander                            Anne Kinney, Dec.      22, 1952 (released in
  Physician.                                   1953).
                                             Also identified by a former Communist
                                               in 1952 and by 1 in 1951.
                                                          ;




Riskin, Angelina                             Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                               1953).
River, W. L.                                 David A. Lang, Mar.          24, 1953.
  Novelist.                                  Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                             Also identified by a former Communist
                                               in 1951.
Robbins,   Ed                                Anne Kinney, Dec.      22,   1952 (released in
  Newspaperman.                                1953).
                                             Also identified by 4 former Communists
                                               in 1952.
Roberts,   Bob                               David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer   ;   producer.                     Also identified by a former Communist
                                               in 1951.
Roberts, Holland {see also section of        Anne Kinuey, Dee.        22, 1952        (released
    this report regarding the hearings         in 1953).
    held in San Francisco).
  Director, California Labor School,
Roberts, Marguerite (Mrs. John San-          LeRoy Herndon, .Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
    ford)                                    David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                    Leopold Atlas', Mar. 12, 1953.
       (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; re-         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
      fused to affirm or deny Commu-         Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
      nist     Party membership.)              in New York).
                                             Also identified by a former Communist
                                                in 1951.
Robeson, Naomi                               Dwight Hauser, Mar.          30, 1953.
  Former       actress.                      Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
      (Appeared Mar. 30, 1953, refused       Charlotte Darling Adams, June 2, 1953.
      to affirm or deny Communist            Also identified by a former Communist
      Party membership.)                       in 1952.
Robinson, Bob                                Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Robinson, Jack                               Roy Erwin. Mar. 31, 1953.
  Writer.                                    Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                in 1952.
Robinson, Jerome                              (Investigation identifying Jerome Rob-
  Photographer, Los Angeles.                    inson as a member of the Communist
       (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; refused          Party has not been made public.)
      to            deny Communist
               affirm     or
      Party membership.)
Robinson, Marjorie                           Edith Macia, Mar. 28,         19.53.
Robinson, Mary (Mrs. Jack Robinson)          Roy Erwin, Mar.      31, 19.53.
  Writer.                                    Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                in 19.52.
Robison, David                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer teacher.
           ;


      (Appeared Mar. 30, 1953 refused ;



      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Rohr, Joe                                    Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
48       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                Identified by
Rohr, Myrtle                                 Edith Macia, RLar. 2S, 1953.
Rolfe,   Ed                                  Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Wiifer.
Rosenfeld, Paul                              Pauline     S.   Townsend, Mar.             12, 1953.
  Attorney for Music Corp. of America.
Rossen, Sam                        ,         Larry Parks, Mar.             21, 1951       (released
                                               in 1953).
Rossen, Sue (Mrs. Robert Rossen)             Pauline     S.   Townsend, Mar.         12, 1953.
Rotti,    Ann     (see   Ann Roth Morgan
     Ri(har<!s)
Rousseau, Louise                             David A. Lang, Mar.           24, 1953.
  Writer.
         (Appeared Sept. 21, 1951; re-
         fused to affirm or deny Commu-
      nist Party membership.)
Rubin, aiary (Mrs. Sam Rubin)                Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Kubin, Sam                                   Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.53.
Rudimon (or Rudamon), Sara                   Edith Macia, Mar. 28. 1953.
Raskin, Shimen                               Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
  Actor.
      (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refused
          affirm or deny Communist
         to
      Party membership.)
Ruthven, Madelaine                    Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 19.53.
  Communist Party functionary, Holly- David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
    wood.                             Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 19.53.
                                      Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                        in New York).
                                      Also identified by a former Communist
                                        in 1952 and by 6 in 1951.
                                                          ;


Ryan, Allen Lane (Al)                 Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Communist Party functionary.          in 1953).
                                      Also identified by a former Communist
                                               in 19.52.
Ryan, Maureen (Maurine)                      Anne Kinney, Dec.             22,   1952      (released
  Social worker.                               in 19.53).
Ryan, Ruth Stoddard                          Anne Kinney, Dec.             22, 1952        (released
  Nursery .school teacher.                     in 1953).
Salemson, Harold                             Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  In charge of press department, Doug-
    las Fairbanks Productions, New
     York     office.
Salit, Fran                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Salit, Sophia                          Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Salt, Waldo                            David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Screen writer.                       Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
       (Appeared Apr. 13, 1951 refused Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
                                 ;


      to affirm or deny Communist Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
      Party membership.)                 in New York).     Also identified by 7
                                         former Communists in 1951.
Samuels, Helen                         Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.'
Sandy, George                          Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Communist Party functionary.           in 1953).
Sanford, John                          Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Attorney.                            Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
       (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951; re- Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
      fused to affirm or deny Commu-     Also identified by 2 former Commu-
      nist Party membership.)            nists in 1951.
Sanford, Mrs. John.   (See Marguerite
    Roberts. )
Saul, Estelle (Mrs. Oscar Saul)              Babbette Lang, June           2,    1953.
Saul, Joe (party name for Joseph
    Spri nger )  ( See J oseph Springer. )
                   .



Schlein, Gerry (Mrs. Charles Schlein)        Lee   J.   Cobb, June    2,   1953.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                       49
                                                               J den titled   hy
Schneiderman,          William,
                             {See   also   David A. Lang, Mar.         24, 1953.
    section of this report regarding the   Anne Kinney,         Dec. 22, 1952 (released
    hearings held in San Francisco.)         1953).         AJso identilied by a former
  Communist Party functionary.               Communist         in 1951.
Schwartz, Harry                         Edith Macia, Mar. 28. 1953.
Schwartz, \ed                           Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.5.3.
Scott, Adrian                           David A. Lang. Mar. 24. 19.53.
  Writer.                               Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
       (Appeared Oct. 29, 1947; refused   in New York).   Also identified by a
       to affirm or deny Communist        former Communist in 195 L.
       Party membership.)
Scott, Lew                              Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
                                             19.53).
Segure, Rose (party name, Alice Starr)     Anne Kinney, Dec.             22, 19.52      (released
  Social worker.                             1953).         Also identified by a former
  (See also section of this report re-       Communist         in 1952.
    garding hearings held in San Fran-
    cisco.)
Seklen, Betty                              Anne Kinney, Dec.          22, 1952 (released
  Social worker.                             1953).         Also identified by a former
        (Appeared Oct. 7, 1952; refused      Communist         in 1952.
         toaffirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Selfrid, Leo                               Anne Kinney, Dec.             22,       1952 (released
  Engineer or draftsman.                     in 19.53).
Selig, Gertrude                            Anne Kinney, Dec.          22,     1952 (released in
  Former officer. United Auto Workers,       1953).
    Local 908, Chicago.
Shaffer,      George                       Anne Kinney, Dec.  22, 1952 (released in
                                             1953).
Shapiro, Victor                            David A. Lang. Mar. 24, 1953.
  Publicist.                               Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                           Robert Rossen. May 7, 1953 (testify-
                                             ing in New York).
                                           Also identified by a former Communist
                                             in 1952; and by 1 in 1951.
Sharf,    Dave                             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Sharf, Rose (also known as Rose            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
  Sherry; Mrs. Dave Sharf)
Shaw, Mary (Mrs. Robert Shaw)              Pauline     S.   Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Shaw, Robert                               Pauline     S.   Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer.
Shelf,   Sanders                           Anne Kinney, Dec.          22, 1952 (released in
  Engineer. Los Angeles.                     1953).
Shepro, Anna (Mrs. Harry Shepro)           LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar.                  27, 19.53.
                                           Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar.                  27, 19.53.
Shepro, Harry                              Leroy Herndon, Jr., Mar.                 27, 1953.
  Teacher in Los Angeles high schools.     Richard Byrd Lewis, Mar. 27, 1953.
      (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; refused      Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
      to affirm or deny Communist            1953).
      Party membership.)
Ship, Reuben                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Radio and screen writer.           Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying in
      (Appeared Sept. 14, 19.51; re-   New York).
      fused to affirm or deny Commu- Also identified by 2 former Communists
      nist Party membership.)          in 1952.
Shire,   Henry                             Anne Kinney, Dec.           22, 19.52 (released in
  Truck driver.                    1953).
Shire, Marian (Mrs. Henry Shire) Anne Kinney, Dec.                     22,    1952 (released in
  Former manager of a downtown     1953).
    bookstore.
Shore, Viola Brothers                      Babbette Lang. June 2, 1953.
  Writer.                                  Also identified by a former Communist
                                             in 1951.
50     ANlSrUAL REPORT,      COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERTCAN ACTIVITIES

                                                             Identified hy
Shore, Wilma (Mrs.       Lou Solomon)    David A. Lang, Mar.             24, 1953.
  Writer.                                Also identified bv a former Communist
                                           in 1952 and by 1 in 1951.
                                                     ;


Siegel,    Sylvia                        Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
  New     York.
Silver, S;im                             Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
Simousgard, Jens                         Anne Kinney, Dec.         22,   1952 (released in
  Member Hyde Park branch of the        1953).
    Communist Party, Chicago.
Simonsgard,  Sarah                    Anne  Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Member, Hyde Park branch of the       in 1953).
    Communist Party, Chicago.
Skadron, Bernard                      Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Public accountant, Los Angeles.
       (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953 refused
                                 ;


      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Skadron, Mrs. Lillian                    Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Housewife, Los Angeles.
Sklar, George                            David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                           in 1952 and by 1 in 1951.
                                                     ;



Sloan, Robert                            Harold Hecht, Mar. 23, 1953.
  Member,           Theater unit of
               Federal
    Communist Party, New York.
Smolan, Morrie                           Charles H. Garrigues, Mar. 27, 1953.
                                         Anne Kinney, Dec.   22, 1952 (released
                                           in 1953).
Solomon, Lou (Louis)                     David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12,                19.53.
                                         Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                           in New York).
Solotoy, Sonya (Mrs. Percy Solotoy)      Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                           19.53).
                                         Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                           in 1951 and by 1 in 1952.
                                                         ;


Sondergaard, Gale (Mrs. Herbert Biber-   Larry Parks, Mar. 21, 1951 (released
      man)                                 in 1953).
  Actress.                               Lee
                                           J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
       (Appeared Mar. 21, 1951 refused Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                     ;


      to affirm or deny Communist        in 1952; and by 2 in 1951.
      Party membership.)
Sparks, Nemmy (Ned)                    Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary; for- Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 19.53.
    merly in Boston, later in Los An- Harry J. Marks, June 22, 1953 (testify-
    geles.                               ing in Washington).
                                       Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                           in 1951.
Spears, John                             Anne Kinney, Dec.           22,     1952 (released
                                           in 1953).
Spencer, Ray                             Danny Dare, Mar.   23, 1953.
  Writer.                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
Spivak, Freda                            Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Springer, Joseph (Communist Party        Robert Gladnick, May              6,   1953 (testify-
    name: Joe Saul)                        ing in New York).
  Ladies' garment manufacturer and
    operator of a camp in Crestline,
      Calif.
      (Appeared Mar. 25, 1953 refused;


          affirm or deny Communist
          to
      Party membership.)
Stanford, John                        David A. Lang, Mar.             24, 1953.
  Writer.
Stapp, John                              Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
     Communist Party functionary.        Also identified by 5 former Communisti
                                           in 1952 and by 6 in 195L
                                                         ;
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                           51

                                                                         Identified hy

Starr, Alice (Communist Party name
    for Rose Segure) (see Rose Segure)
Steinmetz, Harry C.                                        Anne Kinney, Dec.    22,    1952 (released
  Teacher, San Diego State College.                          in 1958).
       (Appeared Apr. 7, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Stevens Clara                                              Anne Kinney, Dec.    22, 1952      (released
                                                             in 1953).
Stevenson, Janet (Mrs. Philip Steven-                      Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
  son)                                                     Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                                             in 1952.
Stevenson, Philip (Phil)                                 Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Screen writer.                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
        (Appeared Sept. 19, 1951;                    re- Also identified by a former Communist
       fused to affirm or deny Commu-                        in 1952.
       nist Party membership.)
Stice, Cliff                                               Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Stone, Bert (female)                                       Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
                                                             in 1953).
Stone, Charles (also           known as Charles Edith Macia, Mar.              28, 1953.
    Ellis)
  Writer for People's World             ;   fought in
    Spain.
Stone, Shirley (Mrs. Charles                     Stone;    Edith Macia, Mar.   28, 1953.
  also known as Shirley Ellis)
Strawn, Arthur                                             Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Writer.                                                  Also identified by a former Commimist
          (Appeared       May   10,   1951   ;   refused     in 1951.
          to   affirm     or
                        deny            Communist
          Party membership.)
Sullivan, Elliott         (also   known          as Ely    Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
    Sullivan)                                              Jerome Robbins, May 5, 1953 (testifying
  Actor.                                                     in New York).
                                                           Also identified by a former Communist
                                                             in 1951.
Swanson, Carl                                              Anne Kinney, Dec.     22,   1952 (released
  Former       officer.   United Auto Workers,               in 1953).
     Local 998, Chicago.
Taffel, Bess                            David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                               Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
        (Appeared Sept. 18, 1951; re- Also identified by 2 former Communista
       fused to affirm or deny Commu-     in 1951.
       nist Party membership.)
Tanner, Harry                           Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
Tarloff, Frank                          David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                               Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
        (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refused
          to affirm or deny             Commimist
          Party membership.)
Tarnoff,       Harry                                       Anne Kinney, Dec.     22,     1952 (released
                                                             in 1953).
Tashjian,       Vaughan A. K.                              Anne Kinney, Dec.   22,   1952 (released in
  Doctor.                                                    1953).
Tourney, James (also known as James Anne Kinney, Dec.                          22,   1952 (released in
    or Jim Thorne or Thorme)                                 1953).
  Communist Party functionary.                             Also identified by 2 former Communista
                                                             in 1951.
Todd, Louise. {See also section of this Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
    report regarding the hearings held    1953).
    in San Francisco.)                  Also identified by 2 former Commimists
  Communist Party functionary.            in 1951.
Trabusis, Paul                          David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.
Trachgin, Frieda                                           Edith Macia, Mar.   28, 1953.
52      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                         Identified hy
Tree, Dorothy (Mrs. Michael Uris)          Larry Parks, Mar.     21, 1951 (released in
  Actress.                                   1953).
                                           Lee J. Cobb, .Tune   2,   1953.
                                         Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                           in 1952 and by 3 in 1951.
                                                     ;




I'rivers, Paul                           David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                         Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953.
                                         Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                           in 1952 and by 3 in 1951.
                                                     ;


Trmiibo, Dalton                          David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
   Writer.                               Max Benoff, Mar. 24, 19.53.
        (Appeared Oct. 28, 1947; refused Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
        to affirm  or  deny  Communist   Robert Rossen. May 7, 1953 (testifying
        Party membersliip.)                in New York).
                                         Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                           in 1952 and by 3 in 1951.
                                                     ;


Tuttle, Tanya (Mrs. Frank Tuttle)        Dannv Dare, Mar. 23, 1953.
                                         Mildred BenolT, Feb. 17, 1953.
                                         Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                         Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                           in 1952 and by 2 in 1951.
                                                     ;


Tyne. George (also known as Buddy Lee J. Cobb, June 2, 1953.
     Yarus)
  Actor.
Uris,   Dorothy   Tree.   (See   Dorothy
  Tree. )
Uris, Michael                              David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                  Sol Shor. Mar. 12, 19.53.
                                           Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                             in New Yoik).
                                           Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                             in 1952 and by 4 in 1951.
                                                     ;


Vandercar, Catherine                       Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
  Nursing-school director.
Vidaver, Matt                          Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Santa Monica.
Vinson,   Pauline  (the   former Mrs.
    Owen     Vinson).   {See   Pauline
    Hopkins.)
Vorhaus, Bernard                       Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
  Director.                            Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                         in New York).
                                       Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                          in 1952 and bv 3 in 1951.
                                                     ;


Wachsman, Robert                       Charles Daggett, Jan. 21, 1952.
  Publicist.
      (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refused
         affirm or deny Communist
        to
      Party membership.)
Wagner, Esther Jerry                       Babbette Lang, June       2,   1953.
  Radio announcer.
      (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Wagner, Murry (or Murray)                  Dwight Hauser, Mar. 30, 1953.
Walden, Clara (Mrs. Mischa WaMen)          Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Waldreen, Herman (also known as            Roy Erwin, Mar.      31, 1953.
    Herman Waldman and David
    Wolfe)
  Radio actor.
Wales, Beulah                              Anne Kinney, Dec.     22, 1952.        (Released
  Teacher.                                   in 1953.)
Wallace, Jane (party name for Jane
    Wilson). (See Jane Wilson.)
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                        53

                                                                      Identified by
Warren, Lucy                                    Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 19.-33.
Wt^ber, John                                    Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12. 19.-)3.
  Agent.                                        Also identified by 2 former Cumuiuuists
                                                  in 1951.
Weber, Ruth (Mrs. John Weber)                   Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 19r)3.
                                                Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
Weil, Everett                                   Pauline   S.       Townsend, Mar. 12, 19.53.
Weinbaum. Sidney                                LeRoy Herndon,          Jr., Mar. 27, 1953.
  Instructor at Cal-Tech.
Wellnian, Ruth H.                      Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Welluian, Ted.    (See Sidney Benson.)
West, Lawrence                         Identified in Communist Party publica-
  President, lawyers branch of the       tion introduced into the record during
    Communist Party, Los Angeles.        testimony of Anne Kinney, Dec. 22,
                                         1952 (released in 1953).
Wetherwax, Jack                        Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released in
                                                  19.53).
Wexley, Cookie (Mrs. John Wesley)               Pauline     S.     Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
Wexley, John                                    David A.       Lanir,   Mar. 24. 1953.
  Writer.                                       Pauline     S.     Townsend, Mar. 12, 1953.
                                                Bart Lytton, Mar. 26, 1953.
                                                Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953 (testifying
                                                  in   New York          City).
                                                Also identified by 3 former Communists
                                                  in 1951.
White, Ann                                      Edith Macia, ]\Lar. 28, 19.53.
White, Irving                                   Danny Dare, Mar. 23. 1953.
                                                So! Sbor.      I\lar. 12,   1953.
                                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1952; and by 1 in 1951.
Whitney, Lynn                                   Dwiirht Ilauser, Mar. 30. 1953.
  Actress.                                      Roy Erwin, Mar. 31, 1953.
      (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused           Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953 (testifying
      to affirm or deny Communist                 in New York).
      Party membership.)                        Also identified by 2 former "Com-
                                                  munists in 19.52.
Wiena, Lena                                     Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Wilhy, Celia                                    Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Santa      Monica;   employee       Douglas
    plant.
Wilenchick, Clement                             (Investigation identifying Mr. Wilen-
  Artist and actor.                               chick as a member of tbe Communist
       (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refu.sed           Party has not been made public.)
      to  aflirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Willner. George                         Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Writers' auent.                       Leopold Atlas, Mar. 12, 1953.
       (Api)eared Apr. 24, 1951 refused Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
                                  ;


       to aflirra or deny Communist Also identified by 2 former Communists
       Party membership.)                 in 19.52 and by 2 in 1951.
                                                               ;


Willner, Tiba (Mrs. George Willner)     Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
                                        Babbette Lang, June 2, 195.3.
                                        Also identified l)y a former Communist
                                          in 1952 and by 1 in 1951,
                                                               ;


Wilson,   Jane    (party   name: Jane Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
    Wallace)                              in 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.          LeRoy Herndon, Jr., Mar. 27, 195.3.
                                        Also identified by a former Communist
                                                  in 1951.
Wilson, Margaret                                Anne Kinney, Dec.             22,     1952 (released
  San Francisco.                                  in 1953).
Wilson, Michael                        David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                              Sol Shor, Mar. 12, 1953.
      (Appeared Sept. 20, 1951 refused Babbette Lang, June 2, 1953.
                                  ;

      to afBim or deny Communist Also identified by a former Communist
      Party membership.)                 in 1952.
54    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                Identified by
Winebrenner, Dolph                          Anne Kinney, Dec.          22,    1952 (released
  Newspaperman,                               in 1953).
                                            Also identified by 4 former          Communists
                                              in 1952.
Winter, Carl                                Anne Kinney, Dec.          22,    1952 (released
  Communist Party functionary.                  in 1953).
                                            Pauline S. Townsend, Mar 12, 1953.
                                            Also identified by 4 former Communists
                                                in 1952.
Winter, Ella                                David A. Lang, Mar.          24, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.              Manning Johnson, July   8, 1953 (testify-
                                                     New York).
                                                ing in
Witkowski, Anne                             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Witkowski, Bert                             Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Wixman, Sam                                 Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Teacher.                                      In 1953).
Wixman, Myrtle (Mrs. Sam Wixman)            Anne Kinney, Dec.           22,   1952 (released
                                                in 1953).
Wolf, Hilton                                Edith Macia, Mar.        28, 1953.
Wolfe, David.     (See   Herman Wald-
  reen.)
Wooley, Angus                               Pauline      S.   Townsend, Mar.        12, 1953.
Wooley, Barbara (Mrs. Angus Wooley;         Pauline      S.   Townsend, Mar.      12, 1953.
  nee Barbara Roberts)
Tarus, Buddy (See George Tyne)
Yates, Allen.   (See also section of this   Anne Kinney, Dec.           22, 19.52    (released
     report regarding the hearings held         in 1953).
    in San Francisco.)
  Seaman from San Francisco.
Yates,   Oleta O'Connor     (See Oleta
  O'Connor)
Young, Bill                                 Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Santa Monica.
Young, Joe (party name for Charles
  Gladstone). (See Charles Gladstone)
Young, Ned (professional name: Ned-         (   Investigation identifying Mr. Young as
     rick
        Young)                                   a member of the Communist Party
  Actor and writer.                              has not been made public.)
      (Appeared Apr. 8, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Young, Molly (Mrs. Bill Young)              Silvia Richards, Mar. 25, 1953.
  Santa Monica.
Young, Sandra                               Edith Macia, Mar. 28, 1953.
Zadow, Dorothy                              Anne Kinney, Dec. 22, 1952 (released
  Oakland.                                      in 1953).
Zadow, Joseph                               Anne Kinney, Dee.           22,   1952 (released
  Tailor.                                       in 1953).
Zimet, Julian                               David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953.
  Writer.                                   Pauline S. Townsend, Mar. 12,               1953-
        COMMUNIST METHODS OF INFILTRATION
                       (   Government   —Labor   )



  During the year 1953 the House Committee on Un-American Activi-
tiescontinued its investigations to ascertain the extent of Communist
infiltration into the fields of government and labor.
  In June 1953 the committee heard Russell Arthur Nixon, legis-
lative representative of the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine
Workers of America. The committee is aware that the extent of Com-
munist infiltration into the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine
Workers of America was sufficiently strong to have caused the Con-
gress of Industrial Organizations to expel it, along with certain other
unions, for Communist activities. Russell Arthur Nixon, who was
identified this year by Mrs. Dorothy K. Funn as having been a member
of an underground group of legislative representatives of various
unions and other organizations, was earlier identified in 1952 in the
course of hearings in Philadelphia, Pa. In calling Mr. Nixon before
the committee, there was a twofold interest, both of government and
labor, since the committee had developed information that Russell
Nixon was attached to the American Military Government in Germany,
along with other individuals who have been identified as members of
the Communist Party. The operation in which Mr. Nixon was em-
ployed in the American Military Government was under the direction
of officials in the United States Treasury Department, including Harry
Dexter White, William Ludwig Ullmann, and V. Frank Coe, all of
whom were identified in 1948 by Elizabeth Bentley as having been
individuals in a Communist operation within the Government who
supplied her with information as a Soviet espionage courier. Mr.
Nixon was questioned concerning this operation and the individuals
with whom he had associated, but declined to answer, on constitutional
grounds, whether he knew these individuals to be members of the
Communist Partj^ or whether he himself was a member of the Com-
munist Party.
  One of the committee's investigations which led to a hearing in Sep-
tember 1953 serves to further point up the continuing need for con-
gressional investigations and hearings. On September 15, 1953, the
committee heard the testimony of James F. McNamara, who was
commissioner for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service in
 Cincinnati, Ohio.   The committee,     in the course of its hearings in
 Albany, N. Y., received testimony from Jack Davis and Nicholas
 Campas to the effect that a James McNamara, who was an officer of
 the Hotel and Restaurant Employees' and Bartenders' International
 Alliance in Washington, D. C, had been a member of the Communist
 Party during the late 1930's. The committee further ascertained that,
 on the basis of FBI reports, Mr. McNamara was given loyalty hearings
 in 1948, 1952, and as recently as February 16, 1953. Throughout these
                                                                55
56       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

loyalty hearings, Mr.      McNamara
                                  denied having been a member of the
Communist Party, and was    retained in his position. Within a matter
of days after he had been subpenaed to appear before this committee,
Mr. McNamara submitted his resignation to the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service and, during his appearance, admitted that he had
been a member of the Communist Party from 1938 to 1940. The com-
mittee believes that had the loyalty process, which permitted Mr.
McNamara to be retained in Federal employment in the face of adverse
FBI reports, been properly enforced, such a situation would not have
existed.
  The following persons were identified as Communist Party members
during the course of hearings held in Washington on the subject of
"Government-Labor"         :




Greenstein, William                         Investigation identifying Mr. Green-
  Tmc'kdriver; secretary of Brewery           stein as a member of the Communist
    Workers Joint Board, New York             Party has not been made public.
     City.
         (Appeared July 20, 1953; refused
         to aflarm or deny Communist
         Party membership.)
Grier, Mary Catherine (Miss)                Executive testimony identifying Miss
  Biblioyrapher and indexer, Geological       Grier as a member of the Communist
    Sjciety of America, Washington,           Pax'ty has not been made public.
    D. C.
       (Appeared Apr. 17, 1953: denied
      present Communist Party mem-
      lieiship but refused to affirm or
      deny past membership.)
Klare, Charles                              Investigation identifying Mr. Klare as
  Office             Brewery Workers
              secretary,                      a member of the Communist Party
     Joint Board, New York City.              has not been made public.
        (Appeared July 20, 1958; refused
         toaffirm or deny Communist
       Party njemiiersliij).)
Nixon, Russell Arthur                    Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953 (testify-
  Legislative representative in Wash-      ing in New York City).
    ington, D. C, for United Electrical, Also identified by a former Communist
    R.idio and Machine Workers of          in 1952.
     America.
        (Appeared June 9, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Sipser, I. Philip                        Investigation identifying Mr. Sipser as
  Attorney, New York City; general         a member of the Comnmuist Party
     counsel of joint local executive      has not been made public.
     board of Brewery Workers Union.
        (Appeared July 20, 1953 refused
                                ;


       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE
             NEW YOEK CITY AKEA
  During the year   1953, the House Committee on Un-American Activi-
ties held hearings in New York City on two separate occasions. The
first of these were held during the first week of May.   subcommit-      A
tee held further hearings in New York City during July. In the
course of these hearings, the committee received information from a
number of witnesses, who were formerly members of the Communist
Party, concerning the Communists' efforts to infiltrate the fields of
entertainment, education, labor, Government, and religion.
   One of the most valuable witnesses was Mrs. Dorothy K. Funn, who
is presently a teacher in the New York City public school system.
Mrs. Funn has been engaged in the teaching profession since 1923,
except for a period of about 4 years from 1943 until 1947. Mrs.
                                                                Funn
stated that she had joined the Communist Party in May 1939 and had
remained a member until about June 1946.
   Mrs. Funn, a Negress, explained her reasons for becoming a member
of the Communist Party in the following manner                   :




   You know,    the cause—  I'll answer you, sir
                                                 —the cause of the Negro    Is a very

touching one and one on which a lot needs to be done yet, and my feeling and
conclusion is that the Communist Party took this great need that Negroes in
America feel as a basis for exploiting their wants, desires, and the things that
they were working for which were not for complete justice and equality for the
Negro but it lends itself beautifully to an emotional tieup, and you can say, "Well,
if this is the organization that's going to do this, therefore, this is the organiza-
tion with which I want to affiliate myself."

  One of the highlights of Mrs. Funn's testimony was her recollec-
tion of the training she had received after joining the Communist
Partj\ She explained that she and others had been selected for a 6-
week training course at Bergman's farm outside of Kingston, N. Y.
Mrs. Funn further explained that the school she attended was exclu-
sively for teachers from New York City and that some 25 miles away
there was another school which was attended by persons who came
from different sections of the United States, which school was known
as the National School.
  When she was asked whether any instruction was given at this
school as to what should be taught by teachers in the public schools,
Mrs. Funn stated:
   I       to answer it this way, if I may: No one stood up there and
        want
said, "Now, this is what you are to teach in the classroom." But on the other
hand you couldn't possibly be open to all this propaganda at the time, believing
that they were doing something that was really for the good of all, as well as for
any group, without slanting your work in the classroom and I'm sure that I
                                                                     ;


did, as well as others.
  It colored your thinking completely,     and   I    can look back now and think of
some of    my history classes. Although    it   was    to 12- and 1.3-year-olds, I'm sure
that I slanted it in line with Communist   Party doctrine.
  During the period that she was not engaged in teaching, Mrs. Funn
became associated with the National Negro Congress and, for a period
     47400—54 —5  —                                          57
58     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTJVITIES

of time, was the legislative representative of that group in Wash-
                                 control exercised by the Communist
ington, D. C. The extent of the
Party  over the National Negro Congress  was explained by Mrs. Funn
in these words    :




  Well, the Negro commission fits in very definitely. I recall meeting; with the
Negro Commission of the Communist Party while I was still a member of the
staff of the National Negro Congress, and certain matters of policy for future
action came up at the Negro commission. I mean matters of policy and action
in connection with the National Negro Congress would come up for considera-
tion and discussion at the Negro Commission of the Communist Party, which
met on East 12th Street at the Communist Party headquarters.
   While she was in Washington, D. C, Mrs. Funn continued as a
member   of the Communist Party and was assigned to a Communist
cell which was composed of the legislative representatives of other

groups and unions. Mrs. Funn explained that this
                                                        was an under-
               and that only members were present at its meetings. In
ground group
the course of her testimony, Mrs. Funn advised the committee that this
cell or group functioned under the direct control of Albert Blumberg
who was then the legislative representative of the Communist Party
in Washington, D. C.     She stated            :




  Albert Blumberg,        of
                      first           was the ideological head of the legislative group
                                   all,
who were members      of the       Communist Party, and he met with us in the Com-
munist Party meetings in Washington. Further than that, if he found it neces-
sary, he would assign certain of the legislative representatives who
                                                                      were Com-
munists to see certain Congressmen to whom he couldn't go because he wouldn't
get an audience with the Congressmen or Senators, so that we would
                                                                     then do the
job of lobbying in place of him.
  The effectiveness of tliis group in lobbying for the causes the Com-
munist Party advocated was also explained lay Mrs. Funn                      :




  They had a terrific lobby in Washington and the           iwssibility of reaching far
more than the other organizations would. After all,     if you have 10 or 12 people

representing thousands, because legislative representatives there would go back
to the parent groups, to the many locals, to the councils of the mass organizations
in the communities, so that their influence was far greater than would be the
influence of, say, one person outside of this Communist Party group yes; far
                                                                                 —
greater.
  Mrs. Funn explained for the committee her understanding of the
purposes and the objectives of these legislative representatives
                                                                         who
were members of the Communist Party. She said                   :




  Well, I might say in all Communist Party meetings the basic idea was to give




       *******
full attention   and study to Marxism, Leninism, and furthering the cause of the
revolution.
   You see, "Come the revolution," some of them         were going   to be   commissars of
this, that, or the other thing. That's a quote.


  Well, I tell you, when
                                           —
                          said that I said, it was a quote because, although I
                              I
think it's a basic thing,                                   —
                           was said ofttimes in fun "Come the revolution, so
                              it
forth, so on will happen"
                                  —
                            but I think underneath that there was something
                      —
more basic in that that there was an idea there would be an overthrow of our
American tenets and that the Marxist-Leninist doctrines would then be adopted
and put into operation.
  Mrs. Funn explained that during her membership in the Com-
munist Party she had been working for the betterment of the Negro
people in the United States and had believed for a long period that
the Communist Party had a similar interest. There came, however, to
her a gradual enlightenment when she understood that this was not
true and she explained this in giving her reason for having returned
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       59

to    New     York, as well as her break from the Communist Party.                She
testified     :



     I left   Washington because   —one thing—   I   was through with the whole setup
of the Communist Party. I had found out that my original reason for joining
the Communist party, which I thought was a good one, and become a leader
in the mass organization that was an arm of the Communist Party I got         —
mixed up in my statement there, but, anyway, I had joined and thought I
Was going on the right path for economic and social and political freedom
for the Negro. Working in the organization, I found that we were really
puppets of the Communist Party and that there was truly no interest in further-
ing Negro rights. Therefore I was no longer interested or wanted to be any part
of it. So I came back to New York and decided to try and get my old job back.

  The committee also called some of the individuals who had been
named by Mrs. Funn as having been members of the same Communist
Party cell to which she had belonged among teachers in the New
York Cit}'^ public-school system. They, however, refused to affirm or
deny the sworn testimony, and stood on constitutional grounds in re-
fusing to furnish the committee with any knowledge they might pos-
sess concerning Communist activities.
  During the committee's investigations and hearings to ascertain
the scope and success of Communist efforts to infiltrate the entertain-
ment field, it was found that a number of the persons named in testi-
mony    as individuals who could furnish the committee with valuable
information resided or were employed in New York City. One such
person named was Artie Shaw, who had been identified as having
attended Marxist study classes and eventually taking out Communist
Party membership. Shaw admitted that he had attended the study
classes but could not recall that he had actually taken out Communist
membership. He did recall that on one occasion he had registered for
something and had used a name other than his own, but thought that
this was a formality required to attend the. study groups.
   The testimony of Mr. Shaw reflected the need for vigilance of
persons of prominence to prevent lending their names for use by
organizations or groups which could possibly further Communist
causes.   He explained to the committee how on at least one occasion
he had lent his name to be used by a group which he later found to be
a Communist front because he respected some of the other sponsors
who had given their names. Referring to the World Peace Congress,
he stated         :




  I was playing at a night club in New York, and I was busily engaged with a
                             —
symphony, which was quite something quite unexpected and something I wanted
                                     —
to try and during that period it was a very hectic period. The press was
         ;




       ***•**
very much for it and against it. There was a lot of controversy, and somebody
                                           —
came up to me at one of these rehearsals and I was pretty harried at that time-
somebody came up and said, "Would you please put your name on this, for the
World Peace Congress?" I said, "Who else is on it in my field?" He gave me
absolutely irreproachable names and showed them to me in print on their letter.

  I investigated   only to the extent of seeing people's names on there that I
thought were perfectly all right, and that I still do in most cases think they are
                      —
perfectly all right and on the basis of that put my name on it.
  The House Committee on Un-American Activities has tried for
years,by every means of communication, to impress on all persons
regarding whom any allegations of Communist or subversive activities
have been made that they are welcome to contact the committee by
60      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

addressing the committee office, Room 225-A Old House Office Build-
ing, Washington 25, D. C, in order that any question concerning their
alleged association with subversive groups might be clarified. The
committee feels that to a degree it has been successful in making this
known to the American public, but it also recognizes that this fact is
not understood by a great many people. Mr. Shaw's testimony
pointed up this when he stated      :




  It   seems   to   me something            —
                              could be done and I, as one citizen would be very
                            —                                         —
appreciative of seeing it I vrould like to see it done. We all have this how shall
         —
I say it haze of rumor.     This haze of rumor started about me. It started out
about 4 years ago, and about 3 years ago it began to affect me as a citizen very
seriously.  At that time I was ai^i^roached by various people in the radio and
           —
television in the related fields, friends of mine who knew me very well, who
wanted to get me jobs, who offered me things that could have been good for them,
                                        —
and they could have been good for me and they would say "Do you realize the
                                                            :


cloud you are under? Do you realize you ought to clear yourself of all this
suspicion?"
  And I would ask every one of them, "How do I clear myself? What way is
there?"
  I had to wait 3 years to ask to appear before this committee so I can clear
myself in this sense, and I thought there ought to be somewhere some group, some
responsible, official party designated by the Congress of the United States, to
which people like I could come and appeal, without having to wait to be sub-
penaed, where I could go and say, "Could I come and testify as to my part in this
so I can once and for all make it clear where I stand now, and where I stood at
that time?"
  It                      in the progress of the committee's work if
        would be a great step
all    persons,     who
                find themselves in circumstances similar to those of
Artie Shaw, would realize that all they need do is communicate with
the committee, the chairman, or its members in oi'der to clarify or
elaborate on any information the committee possesses relative to
themselves.
   During the past year there have been more contacts of this nature
with the committee than ever before and, as a result, the committee
is prepared to furnish a much more accurate picture relative to these
individuals.
   In 1951, during the committee's hearings relating to Communist
infiltration into the motion-picture industry, one of the witnesses
called by the committee was Robert Rossen. Rossen had been identi-
fied under oath as having been a member of the Communist Party,
and it was the committee's hope that he would furnish the information
he possessed. In 1951, however, Mr. Rossen refused to testify fully,
and relied upon the fifth amendment of the Constitution. The com-
mittee was quite certain that Rossen had made a complete break with
the Communist Party some time prior to his appearance before tlie
committee in 1951 and regretted, as in many similar instances, his
refusal to supply information in his possession.
    During the preparations for the hearings in New York City, in 1953,
 it was learned that Mr. Rossen had altered his previous disposition

 against testifying fully, and the committee offered him the opportunity
 to again testify.  Mr. Rossen proved to be a most informative witness
 on the subject of communism. In relating his personal^ experiences
 of 10 years' membership in the Communist Party, the witness added
 materially to the sum total of the knowledge of communism now
 possessed by the committee.
   One of the matters that the committee is most anxious to learn is
 the reason why people, especially those possessing the high intellect
       ANNUAL REPORT,      COIVOIITTEE   ON   XJN- AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       61

of Robert Rossen, ever joined the Communist Party.                          Mr. Rossen's
reasons are best expressed in his own words         :



  I've done a lot of thinking about this, and it seems to me in addition to the
usual reasons which have been presented before this committee, instead of going
back to the thirties, I sort of went back to the twenties, and I kept thinking
of the intellectual atmosphere in which we lived at that time as yoiuig men
                                                                                             —
the fact that there was a period of great cynicism, disillusionment; it was a
period in which I think most young men who were interested in ideas accepted
the premise that the system of government or this government that we had
grown up under had failed. There weren't any more horizons there weren't any
                                                                        ;


more promises we had pretty much reached the apex of a pretty materialistic
               ;


society.
                                                                    —
  Then the thirties, of course, and the depression proved at least to any man
           —
with ideas that this was true; the system had, in a sense, broken down for
                                                                                              —
us in terms of our own personal experience, and we felt that we were looking
I felt that I was looking  —for new horizons, a new kind of society, something
I could believe in and become a part of, something in
                                                           —
                                                          well, in a sense I felt I
wanted to attach myself to history; I wanted to be a part of that historical
movement, and it seemed to me at the time the Communist Party offered, as
far as I was concerned, the only way that could be effective.
  Tou had the rise of fascism in the thirties. You had the struggle against
the depression. You had the most vital movement in terms of writers, artists,
et cetera, that existed.  You felt that something new had to grow up, had to
grow out of all of this, and you felt the Communist Party was the medium
through which all this could be effected.
                       —
  This was, in a sense it offered every possible kind of thing to you at a time
which could fulfill your sense of idealism, and it was a kind of dedication.
People in the Communist Party felt they were doing this not for any particular
and immediate gain, but out of a real sense of self-sacrifice and it was a  ;

                                                                                 *   *   *
catchall in the sense for idealism,   and you went      into completely.
                                                               it
  Values had broken down. This is a real fact. There weren't any values and
the Communist Party seemed to be the place that had the values. Its people were
the most dedicated. It worked the hardest, and it was interested in cultural
movements. It was interested in anything you were interested in. Therefore,
you felt that this was the only place you could possibly go.
  I would say on the level that was the reason
                                                — in other words, the same reason
that you joined the party, as I believed, ultimately is the same reason you get
out.

  In the case of Robert Rossen, at least, it was not merely a process of
signing a card and immediately becoming a member of the Communist
Party. Rather, there was a period of time that he was assigned to a
Marxist study class, following which he was assigned to a new mem-
bers' class before gaining actual membership status.
   Rossen has for many years been successful as a producer, director,
and writer of motion pictures, and he estimated that over the 10-year
period he had been a member of the Communist Party he had con-
tributed about $20,000 directly to the Communist Party and a like
amount to Communist causes and front groups. This fact confirms
the previous findings of the committee that the fields of entertainment
and, in particular the motion-picture industry, were financial reser-
voirs for the Communist Party and its fronts over a period of many
years.
   Another witness who appeared during the May hearings held by
 the committee in New York was Robert Gladnick. Gladnick has
 been out of the Communist Party for many years, but he was able to
 give informative testimony on the general objectives of the Commu-
 nist Party in its efforts to infiltrate the Armed Forces^ of the United
 States and to gain control of the waterfront and martime operations
 of this country. Mr. Gladnick testified that the interest of the Com-
62    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

munist Party in infiltration of the Armed Forces was a basic one and
was a requirement of the Communist International. He stated                :




  Well, you see, the 21 points of admission to the Communist International
states specifically that the individual Communist Parties all over the world
                                                                  —
must carry on work within the armed forces of their respective quote coun-—
tries —           —
        in brackets  countries. That is my own quote. And since the Young
Communist League is a youth branch of the Communist Party, most of the
activity within the Armed Forces were carried on primarily at that time, as far
as I knew, to the best of my knowledge, through the Young Communist League ;
and they would plant people into the armed services, such as the Citizens' Mili-
tary Training Corps, National Guard, such civilian military establishments as
the Brooklyn Navy Yard * * *
  The object of getting Young Communists into the CMTC was twofold. No. 1          :


It gave the Young Communists the experience of arms.
   It also gave the Young Communists a chance to find out if they liked military
life; and, if they did, they were then put into the other Armed Forces, such
as the National Guard or the Regular Army or Navy.
   The committee, over the past 15 years, has developed extensive
information on the espionage operations of Soviet agents, particu-
larly with regard to the widespread use of false and forged passports.
The testimony of Mr. Gladnick pointed out one means by which these
passports were secured     :




  Well, it was common knowledge amongst the Communists at that time when
                                                                          —
I say Communists, I mean those who were connected with the so-called Armed
Forces group, as it was called the antidepartment of the party, that the New
York Public Library had a book of       vital statistics, and if somebody needed a
false passport or false birth certificate he simply went down and looked through
the book for the year in which that particular person was born, and a likely
person, and he just picked out a name. On the basis of that name they would
send away the information to the board of health and receive the birth
certificate.

  Gladnick testified that he had been a member of the CMTC under
an assumed name, together with some 30 or 40 other members of the
Young Communist League. Later, he was to be assigned to the water-
front faction of the Young Communist League. It was revealed in
his testimony that the Communists' main objective in that field was to
break up the International Seamen's Union, A. F. of L. He further
explained to the committee the purpose the Communist Party hoped to
achieve, if successful, in gaining control of the waterfront unions            :




   The Communists had many reasons for getting in on the waterfront. First of
all, it was a question of leading a segment of the American trade-union move-
ment, but it was very important. It was a concentration area, because the mari-
time industry is the Achilles' heel of American industry, because you could
throttle the American war potential, American industrial potential, by calling a
strike or sabotaging the waterfront.

  Another activity in which Gladnick was engaged while a member of
the Communist Party was an effort to organize and propagandize the
United States Fleet, which was then stationed at Long Beach, San
Pedro, and San Diego, Calif. On this point Mr. Gladnick stated                 :




  Well, at that time Schneiderman (Lou Schneiderman) told me there were
certain contacts within the fleet. He turned over to me, and I can't recall his
name, but he was a second-class fireman and I think he came from Ogden, Utah,
aboard the United States steamship tfew York, who was a member of the Young
Communist League and it was my duty to keep in touch with him, to guide him,
                    ;


pass literature to him, and then he told me there was also an officer aboard the
Pennsylvania, and that was his contact. I never got to meet the man.
  Now, at that time, at that particular period, there was a general 10-percent
cut for all Federal employees in effect. It was our job to go aboard these various
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                    63

battleships to find out what the sentiment of the Navy men was in regards to the
pay cuts and our job then was to issue a newspaper, which we did.
     We                                                    —
        put out a newspaper called the Shipmates' Voice the best that I could
recall it.   It may have been Sailor's Voice, but I think it was called the Ship-
mates' Voice. Schneiderman and I had it printed.     We   wrote most of the articles
for it.
     We had it printed. We  made sure that we didn't have it printed anywhere in
any of the Communist printing houses. We went to a Mexican place that put out
newspapers for supermarkets and the reason we picked this Mexican place was
because we decided the owner was not too well versed in the English language.
He put out this newspaper. After it was finished, we destroyed the type, and
                                      —
we turned this newspaper to a legal or open member of the Communist Party.
  In Los Angeles at that time the Young Communist League had a special mobili-
                              —                            —
zation on a Sunday, where all primarily the young girls they all showed up at
a certain given spot. They were all handed this newspaper, and they went
aboard the battleships and distributed it in the lockers and passageways, and in
that way, in one swope, 5,000 copies of the Shipmates' Voice covered every ship
in the fleet.
  On those ships where the Communists had contacts very few papers were given
out. The intention was to create the impression that it is the other ship that
has the Communists; and on the ships where we had these contacts we gave —
                —
out very few not to let them look innocent, but at the same time not to point
suspiciously to them.
  Now, after we put out this newspaper the fleet moved to the east coast, and
                             —                                     —
Schneiderman went to Cuba anyway, he told me he went to Cuba and put out a
second edition of this paper called the Shipmates' Voice, with the aid of the Young
                                                                   —
Communist League of Cuba, which was distributed with their aid ^probably with
their girls' aid at Guantanamo Bay.
  I came to New York, and I contacted Velson and a Dodo, whose name is
          —                                          —
Malken he also worked in the Brooklyn Navy Yard George GorchofE, and we put
out a third edition of this paper, which was printed in the Finnish Federation
Press on 50 East 13th Street.
                                           —
  The reason I know where it was printed ^we were there to make sure no spare
copies were left around.
  There was also a mobilization of female members of the Young Communist
League in New York and they also went aboard the various ships and distributed
in   New York   City.

   Gladnick further advised the committee of the training that he and
others had received in ciphers and secret communications designed to
facilitate the transmission of information to Communist leaders.
   Having been one of those recruited in the United States for duty in
Spain with the Communist Abraham Lincoln Brigade and it was
while there that Gladnick, according to his testimony, became disillu-
sioned with communism, finding that, contrary to Red claims, there
was a more rigid caste system in communism than in other forms of
Government.
   ]VIr. Gladnick, who was intimately associated with the Communist

Party, had this to say about the conspiratorial aspects of the Commu-
nist Party in the United States.
  It's not an international conspiracy. It's a national conspiracy run by the
Russian National Communist Party. In other words, the word "international"
leaves impression that the American Communists might have something to say
in the setup.
  Well, I wiU say this: That the     American Communist doesn't even have the
privilege of sneezing when orders    came from Moscow. They just carry those
orders out. If they say black is white, they say black is white.
  In other words, it's a national conspiracy, a foreign conspiracy against the
United States, and those fellows are just Russian agents. They're not part of
any international setup, except in the set point of view that they are American
agents of a Russian setup.
  It is the desire of the committee to express great appreciation to
the following persons whose full and informative testimony regard-
64       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

ing the twists and turns of the subversive Communist conspiracy
has been made avaihxble not only to the United States Congress, but
also to the      American public        :



                                                                           Date of appearance
ITunn, Dorothy K                                                                 May 4, 1953
Gitlow, Benjamin                                                                 July 7, 1953
Gladnick, Robert                                                                 May 6, 1953
Johnson, Manning                                                                 July 8, 1953
Kinzel, Carin (Mrs. Abe Burrows)                                                 May 5, 1953
Kornfeder, Joseph Zack                                                           July 7, 1953
Patterson, Leonard                                                               July 7, 1953
Philbrick, Herbert A                                                             July 6, 1953
Robbins, Jerome                                                                  May 5, 1953
Rossen, Robert                                                                   May 7, 1953
Schwartz, Zachary                                                                May 7, 1953
  In addition to the testimony of the above individuals, who had been
actually members of the Communist Party, either from choice or to
gain information for the FBI, the committee is pleased to have the
benefit of the observations and knowledge on this subject given by
Archibald Eoosevelt, on July 6, 1953.
  The following persons were identified as Communist Party members
during the course of hearings held in New York City                    :



                                                      Identified hy
Akeson, Virgil                           Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Union legislative representative in
    Washington, D. C.
Alexander, Hy.    {See section on hear-
  ings held in Los Angeles.)
Amarigio, David (Communist Party Robert Gladnick, May 6, 1953.
  name: David Leeds)
Andren, Carl                             Investigation identifying Mr. Andren as
  Vice president, District 65, Distribu-   a member of the Communist Party
    tive, Processing and Office Workers    has not been made public.
      Union.
         (Appeared July 6, 1953; refused
         to  affirm or deny Communist
         Party membership.)
Avnet, Marcella                          Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Teacher, girls' high school, New York
     City; later resided in Baltimore.
Backus, Georgia (Mrs. Hy Alexander).
  (*Sfee section of this report on hear-
  ings held in Los Angeles.)
Bard, Phil                               Robert Gladnick, May 6, 1953.
  Cartoonist for The Young Worker.
Barzman, Ben. (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)

Beitscher, Henry                                   Dorothy K. Funn,   May   4,    1953.
  Legislative representative, Washing-
    ton Industrial Union Council.
Belfrage, Cedric Henning                           Testimony identifying Mr. Belfrage as
  Editor, National Guardian                          a member of the Communist Party
          (Appeared,    May   5,   1953; refused     has not been made public,
          to   affirm   or
                       deny          Communist
         Party membership.)
Belton,    Lem                                     Dorothy K. Funn,   May    4,   1953.
     Washington, D. C.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                        65
                                                                 Identified hy
Berman, Lionel                                 Jerome Bobbins, May        5,    1953.
  Member, Communist Party theatrical
     group,    New
                York.
Bessie, Alvah.  (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Biberman, Edward. {See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.)
Biedenkapp, Fred                               Manning Johnson, July            8,   1953.
Bigelman, Dr. Leo. (See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.)
Blankfort, Henry. (See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.   )

Blumberg, Albert                               Dorothy K. Funn,      May 4,      1953.
  Communist Party legislative repre-             Also identified by a former                 Commu-
    sentative, Washington, D. C.                 nist in 1951.
Blumberg, Dorothy (Mrs. Al Blum-               Dorothy K. Funn,      May    4,       1953.
    berg)                                        Also identified by a former                 Commu-
  Employee, Baltimore     office   of   Com-     nist in 1951.
    munist Party.
Bouslog, Harriet                               Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Legislative    representative,    ILWU   ;
                                                 Also identified by a former Commu-
    lawyer.                                      nist in 1951.
Branca, James                                  Dorothy K. Funn,      May    4,       1953.
  Former organization    secretary.     Com-     Also identified by a former                 Commu-
    munist Party, Washington, D. C.              nist in 1951.
Braverman, Maurice                             Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Attorney, Baltimore.                         Also identified by a former Communist
                                                 in 1951.
Bright, John.    (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles. )
Brown, Archie.      (See also section of       Robert Gladnick,     May   6,    1953.
  this report regarding the hearings
  held in Sau Francisco.)
  Active in longshore organization, San
     Pedro, Calif.
Buchman, Harold. (See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.   )

Butler, Hugo.   (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Campbell, Robert                               Dorothy K. Funn,      May   4,    1953.
  Organizer for      Bedford-Stuyvesant
    section     of   Communist      Party,
    Brooklyn.
Campion, Martha                                Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953.
                                               (Witness identified Martha Campion as
                                                 a member of the Young Communist
                                                 League.)
Cayton, Revels.    (See also section of        Dorothy K. Funn,       May       4,    1953.
  this report regarding the hearings
  held in San FrancLsco. )
  Former executive secretary, National
    Negro Congress.
Chakin, George                                 Robert Gladnick,     May    6,    1953.
  Served in Spain.
Chancey, Martin                                Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Washington, D. C.                            Also identified by a former Communist
                                                 in 1951.
66        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                         Identified by
Chapman, Stanley                                         Dorothy K. Funn, May        4,    1993.
  Member    of teachers' group, Bedford-
     Stuyvesant      area,    Communist
     Party, Brooklyn.
Chaunt, Peter                                            Manning Johnson, July       8,    1953.
  Communist Party              district organizer,
     Buffalo, N. Y.
Chodorov, Edward. ( See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.)
Chodorov, Jerome                                         Jerome Robbins, May 5, 1953.
  Writer.                                                Also identified by a former Communist
                                                           in 1951.
Claris,Maurice.  {See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.      )

Clarke, Angela                                           Carin Kinzel,   May   5,   1953
  Radio group of Communist Party in
     Hollywood.
Clinton, Rose                                            Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Employed         Ijy    Cafeteria Workers then;
                                                         Also identified by a former Communist
     CIO.                                                  in 1951.
Clott,    Herman                                         Dorothy K. Funn,      May   4,    1953.
  Legislative                   United
                          representative,
    Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers,
    in Washington, D. C.
Cohen, Robert                                            Dorothy K. Funn,      May    4,   1953.
  Assistant to principal. Junior High
    School 227, Brooklyn.
       (Appeared, May 5, 1953 refused       ;


      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Cohen, Robert                                            Robert Gladnick,    May     6,    1953.
  American from             New York who was        in
     Servicio Informacion Militar of the
     Spanish Army.
Cole, Lester. ( See section of this report
  on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Coleman, Edna Rosenberg (also known                      Dorothy K. Funn,      May    4,    1953.
     as Edna Rosenberg)
   Teacher, Girls' High School, New
     York         City.
Coleman, Mr. (husband of Edna Rosen-                     Dorothy K. Funn,      May    4,    1953.
    berg Coleman)
  Communist Party organizer.
Cousins, Calvin                                          Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Washington, D. C.                                      Also identified by a former Communist
                                                           in 1951.
Cowl, Margaret,              {See Margaret Und-
   jus.   )

Dalles, Ida                            Benjamin Gitlow, July                          7,    1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
Dale, Thelma                           Dorothy K. Funn, May                           4,    1953.
  Former executive secretary, National
    Negro Congress.
D'Avila,  Sarah Hartman               Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Washington, D. C. member, Anti-;

    Poll-Tax Committee.
DeCaux, Len                           Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Editor, CIO News.
Drummond, Dave                        Robert Gladnick, May 6, 1953.
  An American who fought in Spain.
       (Mr. Gladnick testified he un-
              derstood Mr. Drummond to be
              out of the party now.)
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                  ACTIVITIES                   67

                                                                       Identified by
Dunn, Robert W.                                         Benjamin Gitlow, July         7,       1953.
  Headed Labor Research Association.
D'Usseau, Arnaud                       David A. Lang, Mar. 24, 1953 (testify-
  Playwright, New York                   ing in Los Angeles).
        (Appeared May 5, 1953; refused Roland W. Kibbee, June 2, 1953 (testi-
        to affirm or deny Communist      fying in Los Angeles).
        Party membership.)             Also identified by a former Communist
                                         in 1951 and by a former Communist
                                                          in 1952.
Elfenbein, Sylvia                                       Dorothy K. Funn, May              4,   1953.
  Teacher.
Ellis, Bill                                             Robert Gladnick, May 6, 1953.
  An American who            fought in Spain.             (Witness identified Mr. Ellis as a
                                                            member     of the    Young Communist
                                                            League.)
Endore, Guy.    (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Evans, Gertrude                                         Dorothy K. Funn,    May       4,       1953.
  A   secretary for Industrial Union
     Council, Washington, D. C.
Finkelstein, Jeannette                                  Dorothy K. Funn,    May       4,       1953.
  Clerk in school system, Brooklyn.
Finkelstein, Ruth                                       Dorothy K. Funn,    May       4,       1953.
  Clerk, Board of Education, New York
      City.
Finn, Pauline Lauber. (See section of
  this report on hearings held in Los
  Angeles. )
Flacks. David                                           Dorothy K. Funn, May          4,       1953,
  Teacher, Public School 174, Brooklyn.
        (Appeared May 5. 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Comunist Party
        membership.)
Flacks, Mildred (Mrs. David Flacks)                     Dorothy K. Funn,    May       4,       1953.
  Former public school teacher, Brook-
      lyn.
        (Appeared       May   5,   1953   ;   refused
        to     affirmdeny CJommunist
                        or
       Party membership.)
Fletcher, Martha (Mrs. Harold A. Flet-                  Herbert A. Philbrick, July              6,   1953.
      cher. Jr.)
   Former head of Unitarian youth
     movement in United States now in         ;


      Paris.
Forsyth, Margaret E.                                    Manning Johnson, July             8,   1953.
Fuller, Lester. (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Gandall, Bill                                           Robert Gladnick,   May       6,   1953.
  Ambulance driver in Spain.
Gilbert. Margaret (Comrade Peg)                         Herbert A. Philbrick, July              6,   1953.
  Member, profession group of Commu-
    nist Party, Cambridge, Mass.
Oilman, Sarah (also known as Sarah                      Dorothy K. Funn,    May           4,   1953.
  Gilman Rosenblatt)
    Clerk in Brooklyn schools.
Glenn, Charles. (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Gonda, Elaine                                           Carlin Kinzel,   May    5,   1953.
  Member, Communist Party radio
    group, Hollywood.
Gorchoff, George                                        Robert Gladnick,    May       6,       1953.
  Member, Communist Party cell,
    Brooklyn Navy Yard, in early
      1930's.
68       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                       Identified iy
Gordon, Alice Wilson.          {See Alice Wil-
  son.)
Gordon, Hy. (See section on education
  hearings held in Washington, D. C.)
Gorney, Jay                           Pauline S. Townsend, March 12, 1953
  Songwriter.                           (testifying in Los Angeles).
        (Appeared May 6, 1953 refused Bart Lytton, IMarch 26, 1953 (testify-
                                            ;


         to affirm or deny Communist    ing in Los Angeles).
         Party membership.)           Also identified by 2 former Communists
                                        in 1952 and by 2 former Communists
                                                           in 1951.
Gough, Lloyd. {See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Grant, Morton. {See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Grossman, Mildred                        Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  High-schol teacher, Bronx.
Guarnaccia, Elizabeth                    Herbert A. Philbrick, July 6, 1953.
  Resident, Medford, Mass; former
      teacher.
Gurewitz, Casey                                           Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Washington, D. C.                                       Also identified by a former Communist
                                                            in 1951.
Haddock, Hoyt*                                            Dorothy K. Funn, May     4,    1953.
  Legislative representative for Na-
    tional Maritime Union, in Washing-
    ton, D. C.
Hall, Martin (also known as Herman                        Benjamin Gitlow, July    7,   1953.
  Jacobs)
      Los   Angeles     ;    lecturer   ;       former
      member German Communist                    Party.
Hall, Otto                                                Manning Johnson, July     8,   1953.
  Member,     district committee,               Commu-
      nist Party, Buffalo.
Hall,Rob                            Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Former Daily Worker correspondent Also identified by a former Commimist
    in Washington, D. C.                                    in 1951.
Hardy, Jack                                               Benjamin Gitlow, July    7,    1953.
  Coauthor of Labor and Textiles.
Harper, Annette. {See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.)
Harris, Lou. {See section of this report
  on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Hartman, Sarah. {See Sarah Hartman
  D'Avila. )
Hathaway, Clarence                                        Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.                            Also identified by a former Communist
                                                            in 1952.
Heller, A. A.                                             Manning Johnson, July     8,    1953.
   Exporter-importer,         New York           City.
Henderson, Donald                                         Manning Johnson, July     8,    1953.
  Unionist.
Hirsch, Alfred                                            Benjamin Gitlow, July    7,    1953.
  Official of Sound         View Foundation.
Hoff, Sid                                                 Robert Gladnick,   May   6,   1953.
     Cartoonist   ;   New   York.

      er the testimony of
  lAfter                       Dorothy K. Funn, Hoyt Haddock submitted a statement which
was     rlntPd under title,
      prii                    "Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York Area,"
pt. 8, p. 22S0.
  2
    Following the testimony of Mr. Gladnick, Sid Hoff communicated with the committee
staff, stating his position as having been anti-Communist since 1930, and offering any
assistance possible to the committee.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                                   69
                                                                              Identified by
Hopkins,   Pauline   (formerly  Mrs.
  Owen Vinson). (See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
  geles.   )

Hood, Otis Archer                   Herbert Philbrick, July                                   6,   1953.
  Chairman, Massachusetts Communist
    Party, 1949.
Hudson, Roy.   (See also section of this                    Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953.
    report regarding the hearings held                      Also identified by a former Communist
    in San Francisco.)                                        in 1952.
  Communist Party functionary.
Hughes, Langston                                            Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953.
Hunter, Ian                                                 Robert Rossen, May 7, 1953.
  Writer.                                                   Also identified by a former Commu-
                                                              nist in 1951.
Hutchins, Grace                                             Benjamin Gitlow, July        7,    1953.
  Labor Research Association.
      (Appeared June 21, 1951,    in ex-
      ecutive session not yet made
      public; refused to affirm or deny
      Communist Party membership.)
Jacobs, Florence (Mrs. Julius Jacobs)                       Dorothy K. Funn,        May       4,   1953.
  Teacher, Franklin K. Lane High
     School, Brooklyn.
       (Appeared May 5, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Jacobs, Herman.   (See Martin Hall.)
Jacobs, Julius                                              Dorothy K. Funn,        May    4,      1953.
  Teacher,  Lafayette                  High       School,
    Brooklyn.
       (Appeared        May       5,   1953; refused
      to            deny Communist
               affirm   or
      Party membership.)
James, Dan. {See section of this re-
    port on hearings held in Los An-
    geles.     )

James, Lilith (Mrs. Dan James). (See
    section of this report on hearings
    held in Los Angeles.)
Jarrico, Paul. (See section of this re-
    port on hearings held in Los An-
    geles.)
Jerome, V. J.  (See section of this re-
    port on hearings held in Los An-
    geles.)
Johnson, William S.                                         Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Business representative, AFL Local                        Also identified by a former Communist
    209, Washington, D. C.                                    in 1951.
Jonas, Hallie                                               Carin Kinzel,   May    5,   1953.
  Member, Communist Party radio
    group, HoUyvA'ood.
Klowden, Nina (also known as Anna).
  (See section of this roport on hear-
    ings held in Los Angeles.)
Kolowski, Walter                                            Robert Gladnick,      May    6,    1953.
  From Buffalo, N. Y. served in Spain.
                              ;


Koppelman, Hyman                                            Dorothy K. Funn,       May    4,       1953.
  Member, Communist Party teachers
    group, Bedford-Stuyvesant area,
    Brooklyn.
Kraft, Hyman Solomon (Hy)                                   Robert Rossen. May 7, 1953.
  Writer.                                                   Also identified by a former Communist
       (Appeared Mar. 20, 1952 refused        ;
                                                              in 1951.
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
70     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                Identified ty
Lannon, Al                                        Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Former head of Communist Party in               Also identified by a former Communist
    Baltimore-Washington D. C. area.                in 1951.
Lapin, Adam.    (See also section of this         Benjamin Gitlow, July       7,   1953.
     report regarding the hearings held
     in San Francisco.)
  Daily Worker columnist.
Lardner, Ring, Jr.
   (See section of this report on hear-
     ings held in Los Angeles.)
Lash, Joe                                         Leonard Patterson, July 7, 1953.
                                                  (Witness identified Mr. Lash as a mem-
                                                    ber of the Young Communist League.)
Lawrence, Bill                                    Robert Gladnick, May 6, 1953.
  Communist Party organizer; served               Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953 (testi-
    as commissar in Spanish Civil War,              fying in Albany, N. Y. )       .


                                                  Bella Dodd, Nov. 16, 1953 (testifying
                                                    in Philadelphia).
Lavpson, John Hovpard
   (See section of this report on hear-
     ings held in Los Angeles.)
Lee, Madeline                                     Jerome Robbins, May    5,   1953.
  Member, Communist Party theatrical
     group, New York.
Leeds, David
   (See David Amarigio.)
Lepowsky, Martha     (last   name now   be-       Dorothy K. Funn,   May      4,       1953.
  lieved to be Mrs. Kahn).
    Formerly in school system,       New
      York.
Lerner, James                                     Benjamin Gitlow, July 8, 1953.
  Daily Worker writer.                            Manning, Johnson, July 8, 1953.
Levine, Seth                                      Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Union legislative representative in
    Washington, D. C.
Lindeman, Mitchell                                Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953.
  Member, Communist Party radio                   Also identified by two former                Commu-
    group, Hollywood.                               nists in 1952.
Little,John                           Robert Gladnick, May 6, 1953.
  Former head. New York District,
    Young Communist League.
Livingston, David                     Investigation identifying Mr. Livingston
  Secretary-treasurer, Distributive,    as a member of the Communist Party
    Processing and Officer Workers of   has not been made public.
      America.
        Appeared July 6, 1953 refused
          (                      ;


           affirm or deny Communist
          to
       Party membership.)
Lucia, Tony Santa (also known as Tony Robert Gladnick,               May   6,      1953.
  Sands )      .


    Member, longshoremen's fraction,
          Communist Party.
Lumpkin, Grace                                    Benjamin Gitlow, July       7,    1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
McMichael, Rev. Jack R.                           Benjamin Gitlow, July 7, 1953.
     Methodist minister.                          Leonard Patterson, July 7, 1953.
         (Appeared July 30-31, 1953, in           Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953.
         Washington, D. O., and denied
         Communist Party membership           ;

         matter has been referred to the
       Department    of Justice.)
 McNutt, Waldo                                    Benjamin Gitlow, July            7,   1953.
 McVey, Paul. (See section of this re-
   port on hearings held in Los Angeles. )
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                           ACTIVITIES                71

                                                                Identified by
Malkin (or Malken), Dodo                        Robert Gladnick,    May     6,    1953.
  Member, Brooklyn Navy Yard cell of
    Communist Party in early 1930's.
Meadows, Leon                                   Carin Kinzel,   May   5,   1953,
  Member, Communist Party radio
    group, Hollywood.
Meyers, Henry. ( See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Michelson, Clariua                              Manning Johnson, July        8,       1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
Michelson, William                              John Mills Davis, July       15,      1953     (testi-
  Organizational director, District 65,           fying in Albany, N. Y. )        .



    Distributive, Processing, and Office
    Workers of America.
      (Appeared July 6. 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Mischel, Josef. ( See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Moore, Sam.    (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Moos, Mrs. Elizabeth                            Herbert A. Philbrick, July 6, 1953.
Moreau, Alberto                                 Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Communist Party educational director
     for New York City.
Morse, Gene                                     Robert Gladnick,    May     6,    1953.
  officer in   Spanish Civil War.
Nechemias, Ann                                  Dorothy K. Funn,       May       4,    1953.
  Member, Communist Party teachers
    group, Bedford-Stuyvesant           area,
    Brooklyn.
Newman, Arthur                                  Dorothy K. Funn,       May       4,    1953.
  Teacher, Bronx, N. Y.
Nixon, Russell A.
   (See section of this report on labor
     hearings held in Washington, D. C.)
Nolan, Edward                                   Zachary Schwartz, May            7,   1953,
  Los Angeles.
Oak Liston                                      Benjamin Gitlow, July            7,    1953.
  Edited "Soviet Russia Today".
Ocko, Edna                                      Jerome Robbins, May         5,    1953.
  Member, Communist Party theatrical
    group,     New   York,
Offner,Mortimer                      David A. Lang, March 24, 1953 (testi-
  Theater and television director.     fying in Los Angeles).
      (Appeared May 5, 1953; refused Sol Shor, March 12, 1953 (testifying in
      to affirm or deny Communist      Los Angeles).
      Party membership.)             Also identified by a former Commimist
                                       in 1952 and by 3 former Communists
                                                  in 1951.
Olson, Rose                                     Dorothy K. Funn,     May 4, 1953.
  Substitute     teacher     in   New   York
     schools.
Ornitz, Louis                                   Robert Gladnick,    May 6, 1953.
  Bryant Avenue, Bronx, N. Y.
Osman, Arthur                                   Investigation identifying Mr. Osman as
  President,      Distributive, Processing        a member of the Communist Party has
     and    Office Workers of America.            not been made public.
       (Appeared July 6, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
          Party membership.)
            AXXTAL REPORT. COMMITTEE OX rX-AMERIC.\X ACTRTTIES
                                                                                Iden tidied by
                                                                   Investigation identifying Mr. Paley as
     Vice prosidont. Pisrributive. Prooess-                          a member of the Communist Party has
       iixg and Oifioe Workei-* of America.                          not been made public.
          (Appt^ared July 0. 1953: refused
            to affirm or deny                      Commimist
            Parry meml>ersJiip.)
F.-.t'erson.               Samuel      C.                          Manning Johnson. July      S.    1953.
1\ .ham. Beatriee Goldberg                                         Dorotli\ K. Funn.   May   4.    1953.
     Member. Communist Party teachers
       srrouix              Beiiford-Stuyre^^ant           area.
     Brooklyn-
Peters. .1. ( SiT section on hearingrs held
  in C^^lumbus. Ohio, and in San Fran-
     cisco. >
Pomerance. William. iSee section of
  tliis report on hearings held in Los
     Angeles. >
Purcell. Gertrude,    (S'e^ section of this
     report cm hearings held in Los An-
     geles.)
Kapf Maurice,
        .           ( St^f section of tliis re-

     port on hearings held in Los Angeles. )
Raven. Bob                                                         Robert Gladnick.    May   6,    1953.
  Arrist-
Rieliards. Ann Roth Morgan. (Se^ sanc-
  tion of tiis report regarding the hear-
  ing? held in Los Angeles.)
Rioh^irdson. Marie                                                 Dorothy K. Funn,    May    4,    1953.
  Exeourive   secretary.                          Wasliington
     Council of National                          Xegro Cou-

RicJiards<m. Thomas                                                Dorothy K. Funn, May       4,   1953.
  Was vice president of United Public
        Workers, Washington, D. C.
Richter. Irvin                                                     Dorothy K. Funn,    May    4,    1953.
  Legislative representative in \N'ash-
    ington. D. C. for United Auto
        Workers,
Riebej. Clara (now Mrs. Brahdy)                                    Dorothy K. Fiinu.    May        4,   1953.
  Retired leaclier.
Riedr.-an.                Maurice                                  Dorothy K. Fu-n. May            4.   1953.
     Was teacher;:                   in a boys' high school.
       Xew York.
Rinaldo. Fred. iSfo .section of this re-
   port on hearing held in Los Angeles.)
RoT'err^, Margnexite.   (See section of
   this report on hearings held in Los
  Angeles, >
Roberts, Stanley                                                   Robert Rossen. May 9. 1953. also iden-
  Writer.                                                            tified by a former Communist in 1952.
                                                                   Benjamin Gitlow, July 7. 1953.
i.          -         :     -   "a                                 Benjamin Gitlow, July 7, 19-53.
     Av.:l           r.    L./:or    and Coal.
Rosr-:         Ki-a. r-.                (.Sot?   Edna Rosen-
     berg Coleman.)
E:^f- r.aru Sarah Oilman,                          i   See Sarah
     G.li-ian.)
RutLvr^n. Madelaine.                        i
                                                See section of
     this rer-crt on hearings held in                      Los
     Ansrele*. i
                   ANNUAL BEPOET, COMMITTEE ON rN-AMZEICAN                                                                                                                  AtTlVJTUfiS          73

                                                                                                                                Identified               by 2 f:rLitr         Coi^iiL^iiiiste     In
      Broadway               j,r.I:'er.                                                                                                 l^L
                       Apr-iJirT. iray                                                7,       1&53       :        denied
                   J r
                       t.      .   £. :
                                              -       r           -     -
                                                                             onist Parry meoi-
                                                                                                   -j   afBrm or
                               .          .                                                          .)

Salt,    Waldo. <ft'ee section of ttis re-
      port on hearings held in I>&5 Angeles. )
Salz. Morris                                                                                                                    Dorothy K. Fram,                       May     4,    1953.
      7                                                                                       Brooklyiu
Si;       -                                                                                                                     DoTotbj K. Fram,                       May     4, 1&53.
      I^rgLsIatire re:                                                                                  iii        Wasb-
           iiigu-n, D. C,                                             - .:       -    .   ^        ^iia   Tobacco
           Workers.
                                                  -       '
                   <A:                                                  July 12, ir>i9, in
                   W&                             .               -.     D. C.  refn-sed to    :


                                                                                 Communist Party

Schneiderman, LotL (See aUo section                                                                                             Eobert Gladnick,                      May    6,    1953.
          -
  of tr 7   rt on hearings held in San
  Fr£
S^:                                                           e                                                                 RoT>eTt          G                   May 6,       ISCS.
      _        '_:_                                           -                               on 5&th              St. be-
                                                                       place"'
                   .3d Aves., New York.
              tween 2d and
Scott, Adrian.   (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles, j                                                                                                -       -
                                                                                                                                                     " ~
                                                                                                                                                       _                '                "
.Searle. Elizabeth                                                                                                              E-                                                  '/
   ComzQuiLisT Party functionary. Wash-                                                                                         A,                               .                           -i^anist
     ington, D. C.                                        ^ ' -
                                                                                                                                        tsi   1^*51.
Sharidr:'?.                        G^-                                               Gerry >                                    Dorothy K. Fonn.                       May    4, 1&53.
      D^glslatlv^      -atative in Wash-
        ington, D. C, lor .American Com-
              mnnications A^?«dation.
SL&X'l-           Victor.
                   •
                       -   (See section on hear-
  ings held in Los Angeles. j
Shefiard. Henry                                                                                                                 Manning                     -
                                                                                                                                                                 :i,   Jtily 8, 1&53.
  Or. ese<rutiTe c     -e of American
    League Asal-                                                                          z    a::c       Fascism.
Shen-an. Bob"                                                                                                                                 ay K. Funn,              May 4,      1953.
      Wa.sliL-.gt on.                                 D. C.                  :       believ-^.            :.:::     —
                                                                                                                   Union
                                                                                                                        :   ,
                                                                                                                                1



              to       Washington Industriai
     ConnciL
Shields. Art                                                                                                                    Dorrhy K.                 Fttttj,      May    4,    1^3.
               -
  ForT           ^'i'rker eorresponde' t
  in v. _.-_„^-.^ D.                                                                 a
Ship, Reuben.     *'e-e secticr-  irir-                       •                                               :.


      inrs helc in Lc^s Angeles, j
St' :r-                R'oir:                                                                                                   Carin KinzeL,                   May     5,   1S53.
      Z'
                                                                  -
                                                                             'ist              Panv                 radio
              ._
                           -
                                      2i\             _                      :i
Skolnik. Yale Commiuiist Party n£                 <                                                                                 .    bert GlsuSmdi,              May 6,       1953.
    Yale Sroartj
  Organizer    for   Retail-Wi
     Wrrk«^r= Union.
Smith. Ferdinand C. (See :                  i                                                                                   1              hy K. Frmn, May         4. 1953. Also
  of This rei»'>rt regarding t;          ..                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                            y a former Conunnnist in
  hel'l In San Franciseo.j                                                                                                              1. 1_.
S 1 :n r. L lis.     See section of this re-                      >




  -J'lL'r.             Is.r-l                     Wa              ...                                                           1                    .           ~.    Jnly   7,    1953.

  j:rinier.                        Jcsepn.                                  <See 5-::::i. of tiis
   re:-ort                     on hearings held in Los An-
      geles.)



                   4741 •!>
74      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                           Identified by
Stander, Lionel                                              Identified by 4 former        Communists    in
  Actor.                                                       1951.
         (Appeared              May    6,    1953; refused
         to            deny
                      affirm    or             Communist
         Party membership.)
Stein, Peter                                                 Investigation identifying Mr. Stein as
  Organizer,              Distributive,         Processing     a member of the Communist Party
      and Office Workers                      Union, New       has not been made public.
      York City.
       (Appeared July 6, 1953; refused
         toaffirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Stember, Samuel                                              Robert Gladnick,   May   6,      1953.
  Political commissar of Abraham Lin-
    coln Battalion in Spain.
Stone, Eugene R. (Gene)                                      Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953. Also iden-
  Radio writer.                                                tified by 2 former Communists in 1952.
       (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Strong,Anna Louise                                           Benjamin Gitlow, July         7,    1953.
  Writer Soviet agent.
                  ;


Strong,    Edward                                            Dorothy K. Funn,    May       4,    1953.
  Former executive secretary, National
    Negro Congress.
Stever, Lettie                                               Jorome Robbins, May         5,     1953.
  Member, Communist Party theatrical
      group,           New     York.
Stuart, Yale.    {See Yale Skolnik.)
Sullivan, Elliot. ( See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles. )
Sullivan,Glenda                                              Robert Rossen,   May   7,    1953.
  Hollywood.
Taft,   Anna                                                 Robert Gladnick,   May      6, 1953.
  Nurse   served in Spain.
              ;


Taylor, Shirley (Mrs. William Taylor)                        Dorothy K. Funn,    May       4,   1953.
  Washington, D. C.
Taylor, William                                              Dorothy K. Funn, May 4, 1953.
  Former organization secretary, Com-                        Also identified by a former Communist
    munist Party, Washington, D. C.                            in 1951.
Thompson, Louise. (See also section of                       Manning Johnson, July         8,    1953.
  this report regarding the hearings
  held in San Francisco.)
  Communist Party functionary.
Tippett,       Tom                                           Benjamin Gitlow, July         7,   1953.
  Coauthor of Your Job and Your Pay.
Trumbo, Dalton. (See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An^
  geles.)
Undjus,               Margaret         (alias    Margaret    Benjamin Gitlow, July         7,   1953.
       Cowl)
  Communist Party functionary.
Uris, Michael.  (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles. )
Velson, Irving (also known, as Charles                       Robert Gladnick,   May      6,     1951.
    Wilson and "Shavey")
  Resident, Brooklyn; employed, Steel
       Fabricators,             Long    Island.
          (Appeared             May     6,   1953; refused
          to            deny Communist
                      affirm    or
          Party membership.)
Vorhaus, Bernard. [See section of this
  report on hearings held in Los An-
     geles.)
      AJSTNUAL REPORT, COIVEVIITTEE              ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         75

                                                                 Identified by

Wacker, Charlotte                                Dorothy K. Funn, May            4,    1953.
  Teacher, Manhattan.
Wagenknecht, Alfred                              Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953.
  Official of IlliDois       Communist Party.    Also identified by a former Communist
                                                   in   1952.
Wald, Nat (Communist Party name;                 Robert Gladnick,      May   6,       1953.
    Nat Young)
Ward, Harry F.                                   Benjamin Gitlow, July 7, 1953.
  Retired Methodist minister.                    Leonard Patterson, July 7, 1953.
                                                 Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953.
Wexley, John. {See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
White, Charlie                                   Leonard Patterson, July              7,   1953.
                                                 (Witness identified Mr. White as                   a
                                                   member       of   the   Young Communist
                                                   League.)
Whitney, Lynn. (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Williams, Albert Rhys                            Benjamin Gitlow, July           7,    1953.
  Former minister and director, Mav-
    erick Church and Forum of Boston         ;


    lecturer   ;   contributing editor.
Williams, Claude C.                              Benjamin Gitlow, July           7,    1953.
  Director, People's Institute of Applied
    Religion.
Wilson, Alice (Mrs. Hy Gordon)                   Robert Gladnick,      May   6,       1953.
Wilson, Charles. (See Irving Velson.)
Winter, Ella.   (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in Los Angeles.)
Wofsy, Leon                                      Benjamin Gitlow, July           7,    1953.
  Chairman         of   National   Organizing    Also identified by a former Communist
     Conference for the Labor Youth                in 1952.
     League.
Wolff, William                                   Carin Kinzel, May 5, 1953.
  Radio writer.                                  Also identified by 2 former Communists
       (Appeared Oct. 6, 1952; refused             in 1952.
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Workman, Naomi                                   Robert Gladnick,      May       6,    1953.
  Telephone operator in Nevr York         dis-
     trict   office     of   Communist Party,
     1939.
Young, Nat. (See Nat Wald.)
Zucker, Jack S.                                  Dorothy K. Funn,          May    4,       1953.
  Organizer, United Electrical, Radio            Also identified by a former Communist
     and Machine Workers of America                in 1951.
       (Appeared Oct. 14, 1952; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE
            COLUMBUS, OHIO, AREA
  In June 1953, a subcommittee was appointed and held hearings in
Cokimbus, Ohio. As reflected earlier in this report in the section
                                                                    the
dealing with Communist methods of infiltration of education,
committee's investigation had previously determined that there had
been in existence a Communist cell on the campus at Yale University,
New Haven, Conn., and that one Byron Thornwell Darling had been a
member of this cell. At the time of this investigation, Byron Thorwell
Darling was a professor at Ohio State University and it was
                                                                decided
that the hearings should be held by a subcommittee in Columbus, Ohio.
  At the beginning of these hearings, the committee received
the benefit of the testimony of Dr. Bella V. Dodd. Dr. Dodd was
formerly legislative representative and a member of the New York
State Committee of the Communist Party and, as a member of the
                                                 ;


National Committee of the Communist Party in the United States,
held one of the highest positions a Communist Party member may
occupy.
  With   this background, Dr. Dodd was qualified to speak authorita-
tively  on the Communist menace and the various phases of its sub-
versive activities. Dr. Dodd pointed out that she had first become
associated with the Communist Party in about 1932 but, while she
had worked closely with it, she had not been an actual member. She
related that from her recollection she had become completely under
Communist discipline in about 193G and later, in 1943, became
a member of the Communist Party and its legislative representative.
   Dr. Dodd informed the committee that becoming a member of the
Communist Party was not merely a process of receiving a card and
becoming a Communist overnight. She stated that one becomes a
Communist over a long period of time by working with the party and
eventually becoming so enmeshed that he loses all other contacts and
associations.   Dr. Dodd confirmed the committee's continual warnings
that the Communists, through the use of euphonious and appealing
titles and slogans, entice many unwary individuals into its fronts and
even into the organization itself before they become familiar with the
true purposes of the Communist Party. She stated that, once a per-
son becomes a Communist, he is under complete dictatorial control of
the   Communist Party.     She said   :



  If the party says that this person is good, he is good if the party says this
                                                        ;


person is bad, he is bad. regardless of your own intelligence. The thing which
struck me was that, if the Communist movement can do that to human beings,
that kind of movement is extremely dangerous. It is a movement which uses
mass hysteria to control people's minds. It is a movement which we might well
be worried about.
  Dr.   Dodd was questioned by the committee concerning the Commu-
nist intentionsand efforts to infiltrate the field of education. She is
particularly well informed in this matter, having been one of the
       76
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                        77

principal founders and organizers of the Teachers'
                                                         Union in New
York City. She stated that the Communist Party realizes that its
membership is too old and ill-fitted to carry on the work to which the
party is dedicated that it is necessary to indoctrinate the new genera-
                            ;


tion for the purpose of furthering the efforts of the Communist Party.
Dr. Dodd stated         :




  There    isno doubt about the fact that the first enemy of the Communist is a
belief in the fact that you are created by a Divine Creator.     That they have to
get rid of before anything else.  If they can wipe that out, then it is easy, because
if you don't believe in a God, all you believe in is better material advancement,
and the Communists promise greater material advancement for all.
   She also described the manner in which the Communist is effective
in his operations on the campuses of America, as follows              :




  Where there was a unit of at least three or more members, they would meet
regularly and function as a unit. They would get instructions from the person
in charge of the covmty or city on which the campus was located. They would
pay their dues to that person. At their meetings, they would discuss first the
party line, get education on the Marxist-Leninist line and, second, they would
discuss the question of how to penetrate other organizations. If there was no
union on the campus, they would form a union.
  If it was too difficult to form a union, they would form a loose association in



the campus.
    ^

  Well, as
religion.
                    I
                        *****
which the common problems might be discussed. They would attach themselves
or form some connection with the youth, the young people, with the students on



               said before, communism is a way of life, and it is almost like a
           It becomes a part of you.    It affects your entire thinking.
your attitu'de toward your students, toward your Government, affects your
                                                                               *


                                                                         It affects


attitude toward things that are happening day by day. Most Communist col-
lege professors begin by being very much interested in their students, and if
they have a Communist philosophy, they pass it on.
   Many of them try to influence their students to become Communists. Any
number of students have become Communists because they admired a professor
who was going in that direction. Then he fimctions within all the other organi-
zations on the campus in affecting their thinking, the question of choosing books
for the library, the question of establishing curricula for the college.

  The question as to whether a Communist teacher endeavors to influ-
ence or indoctrinate his pupils was answered by Dr. Dodd in this
manner     :




  There is no doubt in my mind that I influenced students. I was teaching
economics I was teaching political science, history. These are subjects which
                ;


are very easily influenced by a Marxist-Leninist approach. I was teaching dur-
ing the period of the depression, and during that period the Communists said
the reason for the depression was the breakdown in the capitalist system and
the only thing which would obviate any future depressions would be elimina-
tion of the system. Change the system, and you would have no more depres-
sions.
  Unfortunately, there were no other answers being given at the time. The
Communist answer was the easiest answer to give. It was easy to push the
students in that direction.
  The danger and effectiveness of the Communist Party was explained
by Dr. Dodd when she stated          :



  The Communist movement is                         and highly organized move-
                                  a highly centralized
ment.  One of the reasons why they have had such astounding success in coun-
tries even lil<e the United States       —
                                      J. Edgar Hoover says there are 25,000.
William Z. Foster, head of the party, says there are 70,000. Whether it is
25,000 or 70,000, that is a small number in comparison with 160 million Ameri-
cans. Twenty thousand Communists highly organized and placed in key posi-
tions can create a tremendous amount of difficulty.
78   ANNUAL REPORT, COAIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
  In smearing a committee such as your committee, what is done is this Firsts:


you have to get the Communist Party iu opposition. Then every trade union
where there are Communists is immediately started to put out the line that if
the attack is against the Communists, the next attack will be against labor.
They get the trade unions to pass resolutions against anything that is against
Communists. Then, they go into women's organizations and minority group
organizations, the Negro people, the Jewish people, the foreign-born people, and
stirring them up. They charge that these committees are intended to annihilate
them, and, therefore, they had better pass the resolution against investigations.
  The Communists do have representation in practically every key area in
       —
America in scientific societies, in intellectual circles, women's clubs, trade
      —
unions and these organizations are all then made to adopt the resolutions
against them.
   How do they promote this resolution? First, they will get someone to make
a statement. They get a Communist not known as a Communist. Take a person,
let us say a person who is outstanding in religious fields or educational fields,

  The committee is greatly indebted to Dr. Dodd for the valuable
information she contributed to the committee's further understanding
of the Communist Party as a conspiratorial force operating within
the United States.
  Following the testimony of Dr. Dodd, the committee called Byron
Thorwell Darling, who again refused to affirm or deny the allegation
that he was a member of the Communist cell at Yale University. He
further refused to comment on testimony received in executive session
that he had been a moving force in a Young Communist cell which
had been in operation at Michigan State University while he was an
instructor there. These denials were made in spite of statements
that Darling had made to university officials, denying that he was
ever a member of the Communist Party.
  The committee also heard Mrs. Barbara Springer Darling, the wife
of Byron Thorwell Darling; and Flora Webster, his sister-in-law,
both of whom refused to affirm or deny sworn testimony that they
had been members of the Communist Partj^
  For the comprehensive and detailed testimony of the following
witnesses, which plays its part in completing the picture of the Com-
munist conspiracy which the committee is able to furnish to the Con-
gress of the United States, the committee extends keen appreciation :
                                                        Date of appearance
Baldvpin,    Bereniece                   June   18, 1953.
Bush, Robert    H                        May    25, 1953.(Dr. Bush appeared in
                                           executive session and testified fully
                                           as to his former membership in the
                                           Communist Party. Portions of his
                                           testimony have been       made    public.)
Dodd, Bella    V                         June   17, 1953.
Gainor, Charles                          May    27, 1953.  (Dr. Gainor appeared
                                           in executive session and testified
                                           fully as to his former membership in
                                           the Communist Party.      Portions of
                                           his testimony have been made pub-
                                           lic.)
Gewirts,    Edward                       June   8,   1953.   (Dr. Gewirts appeared
                                           in  executive session and testified
                                           fully as to his former membership
                                           in the Communist Party.   Portions
                                           of his testimony have been made
                                           public.)
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                           79

  The                    were identified as members of the Communist
          following; persons
Party during the coui-se  of hearings held in Columbus, Ohio                                     :



                                                                             Identified by
Adamski/ Stanley                                         Bereniece Baldwin, June 18, 1953.
  Member, United Auto workers, CIO.                      Also identified by the same witness in
                                                           1952.
Darling, Barbara        Ann         (Mrs. Byron T.       Bereniece Baldwin, June        18, 1953.
     Darling)
       (Appeared June 17, 19.53 refused     ;


          affirm or deny Communist
         to
      Party membership.)
Darling, Byron Thorwell                 Robert Bush,                    May      25, 1953.
  University professor.                                  Charles Gainor, May 27, 1953.
         (Appeared June 17 and 18, 1953;                 Edward Gewirts, June 8, 1953.
         refused to affirm or deny Com-
         munist Party membership.)'
Finklestein, Moe                                         Bella V. Dodd, June 17, 1953.
  History teacher.
Frank, Richard                                           Bella V. Dodd, June 17, 1953.
  Communist Party fimctionary.
Gregurek, Frank                                          (Committee counsel, June            18, 1953, re-
  Communist Party functionary.                             ferring to executive testimony not yet
       (Appeared June 8. 1953, in exec-                    made    public.)
         utive  session             and   refused   to
                    Communist Party
         affirm or deny
      membership.)
Gregurek, Goldie (Mrs. Frank Gregu-                      Committee counsel, June    18, 1953, re-
  rek)                                                     ferring to executive testimony not yet
  Official      of   Communist             Party    in     made    public.
  Michigan.
         (Appeared June 8, 1953, in exec-
         utive session and refused to af-
         firm or deny Communist Party
         membership. )
Norman,       Bill                                       Bella V. Dodd, June 17, 1953.
  Secretarv of the Communist Party in
  New York, 1946.
Peters, J. (alias Steve Miller).   {See                  Bella V. Dodd, June 17, 1953.
  also section of this report regarding                  Robert Gladnick, May 6, 1953 (testify-
  the hearings held in San Francisco.)                     ing in New York City).
                                                         Manning Johnson, July 8, 1953 (testify-
                                                           ing in New York City)        .



                                                         Also identified by a former Communist
                                                           in 1952.
Webster, Flora (Mrs. Willard Parker                      Bereniece Baldwin, June IS, 1953.
  "Ben" Webster).
    Post office employee, Tucson, Ariz.
      (Appeared June IS, 1953 refused           ;


         to    affirmdeny Communist
                        or
      Party membership.)
Winter, Helen Allison (Mrs. Carl Win-                    Bereniece Baldwin, .June IS, 1953.
  ter).                                                  Also identified by the same witness in
       Communist Party functionary.                        1952 as well as by 3 other former Com-
                                                           munists in 1952.
Wright, Arthur Orville                                   Testimony identifying Mr. Wright as a
  Detroit resident   employee, Briggs
                           ;                               member of the Communist Party has
       Manufacturing Co.                                   not been made public.
         (Appeared June 8, 1953, in execu-
         tive    session       in    Lansing, Mich.,
         and refused to affirm ©r deny
         Communist Party membership,
         according to statement by com-
         mittee counsel at public session
         June    18, 1953.)

   1   The last name Incorrectly spelled Dembski In the 1953 printed hearing.
  '
       Also appeared Mar. 1.3. 1953. in Washington, D. C, and refused to affirm or deny
 membership     in the Communist Party.
INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE
              ALBANY, N. Y., AKEA
  During the past few years the investigations by the House Commit-
teeon Un-American Activities have developed the fact that the Com-
munists have exerted strong efforts to infiltrate the important area of
Albany, N. Y. As a result of the information gathered by the investi-
gative staff of the committee, a subcommittee was appointed to hold
hearings in Albany during the month of July 1953.
  At this time the committee was fortunate in securing the coopera-
tion of a citizen of Canada who, as a former member of the Com-
munist Party, possessed information of a very vital character. Dur-
ing the 1950 investigation in Hawaii, the committee obtained leads
indicating that the near worldwide shipping strike of 1949 was insti-
gated and executed by the Communists as part of a conspiratorial
plan to promote certain unknown Communist objectives. It was not
until the Canadian, Patrick Walsh, accepted the committee's invita-
tion to appear as a witness in Albany that the committee learned the
full inside story of this   most significant incident which so clearly
demonstrates the international character of the Communist conspiracy.
Walsh's graphic description of what is generally referred to as the
Canadian Seamen's Union strike of 1949 is the first time the story
has been publicly told.
  Walsh's testimony demonstrates what a serious matter it is to per-
mit individuals who are subject to the directives and discipline of the
Communist Party to be placed in sensitive positions of leadership and
responsibility. It suggests the necessity of congressional considera-
tion of new means and methods of enlarging the provisions of the
Internal Security Act, tightening its present provisions, and hastening
its   enforcement.
   Mr. Walsh, in describing his background, said that he had
first become associated with communism at the age of 17 or 18,
when he became a member of the Young Conmiunist League. He later
received instructions in Marxism from Fred Rose, who in 1946 was
tried and sentenced by Canadian courts for having conspired to pass
secret documents to the Soviet Embassy in Canada.               The fur-
ther activities of Walsh during his early days in the Communist
Party, while they relate strictly to Canada, are of interest because they
so closely parallel the activities of the Communist Party in the United
States and further establish the international conspiratorial aspects
of communism.
  Mr. Walsh testified that in 1940, he was ordered by the Communist
Party to enlist in the Canadian Army in order to carry on "revolu-
tionary defeatism" because, since this was the period of the Hitler-
Stalin Pact, the Communists were claiming that the war between
Britain and Germany was an "imperialist" one.
  After the invasion of the Soviet Union, the line of the Communist
Party changed to all-out mobilization. Walsh testified that while
        80
        ANlSrUAL REPORT,   COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                 81

in England, France, and Belgium, he met with Communists of those
countries and, further, that there were occasions when he met with
members of the American Armed Forces who were also members of
the Communist Part3^ During this period, on instruction of Com-
munist officials, Walsh and other Communists in the Armed Forces of
(jrreat Britain and the United States appeared at public gatherings
to agitate for a second front.
   Following the war, Walsh was instructed by Communist leaders to
become a member of the Canadian Seamen's Union, although he had
no previous training as a seaman. This was during the period shortly
after the formulation of the Marshall plan for aid by the United States
to foreign countries. Mr. Walsh explained that Connnunist leaders
made the claim that they had Communists aboard nearly every deep-
sea ship.   Mr. Walsh stated that after joining the Canadian Seamen's
Union, he became a galley boy aboard a Canadian ship, the Mont
RoUand as a cover for his Communist activities. His instructions
were to contact the dockers in the various ports where the ship stopped
and insure that there was complete solidarity in a forthcoming strike
which the Communists were inspiring. In his testimony, Walsh left
no doubt as to the true purpose of the strike. He said            :




  Yes I will prove later on in my testimony that this strike was a political
        ;


strike which had no bona fide trade-union principles involved whatsoever and
that it was being ordered by the Cominform, which is the international section
and which faithfully carries out the dictates of the Soviet Union, that this strike
was being organized with the end in view of tying up shipping in ports all over
the world so that Marshall plan shipments would not be delivered in time or the
cargoes would rot and at the same time it was expected to deal a crippling blow
to the Atlantic Pact which the Communists were vigorously opposing at that time
all   over Europe.
  The formation of    the Communist conspiracy to tie up shipping in
ports       over the world, thereby dealing a crippling blow to the
            all
Marshall plan and the Atlantic Pact, and the acts done in furtherance
of the objectives of this conspiracy, were graphically outlined by the
witness. Walsh testified that on the arrival of his ship, the Mont
RoUand., in the port of Genoa, he received a notice to report to the
office of the General Federation of Italian Labor. At this meeting he
became acquainted with most of the top Communist agitators in the
maritime section of the Cominform. There were about 40 people
present    among them were Andre Fressinet, general secretary of the
             ;


Seamans' and Dockers' international section of the World Federa-
tion of Trade Unions: Marino De Stefano, a leader at that time of
the Italian Seamen's Union, a Communist-dominated and controlled
organization Hoiting of the Dutch Seamen's Union Van Den Bran-
                      ;                                       ;


den, of the Antwerp Dockers Action Committee; Otto Schmidt, an
official of the Austrian Inland Transportation Workers, another
Communist union affiliated with the World Federation of Trade
Unions; Salvadore Gomez, of the underground Communist Party of
Spain; Luigi Longo, a prominent leader of the Italian Communist
Party and former political commissar of the International Brigades
in Spain Jock Hastings, a well-known Communist agitator from the
                  ;

British Dock Workers Rank and File Committee Pontikos, claiming
                                                          ;

to represent the Greek Maritime Federation; and Lazaro Pina, an
official or former official of the Cuban General Workers' Federation.
82         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  The main speaker was Andre Fressinet. The nature of the con-
spiracy is best described by quoting the witness' statement of what
occurred at this meeting      :




  So, Fressinet's speech was to the effect that the Marshall plan to aid Europe
or to aid the underfed populations of Europe would defeat the Communist
Party plans in Italy and in France particularly, where the Communists were
busy exploiting the discontent that was evident everywhere due to the postwar
conditions in these countries.
  Now, Fressinet said that originally the plan had been to involve the National
Maritime Union at the same time as the Canadian Seamen's Union, so that the
strike would be more effective, but in the meantime Fressinet explained that
                                                       —
the National Maritime Union had broken away that is, the leadership had
                —
broken away from the Communist Party and that nearly all the Communist
leaders who had been there for a long time had been expelled. So that they could
not count on the National Maritime Union either joining this strike of their own
free will or of going on a solidarity strike;    but Fressinet pointed out that hap-
pily the Canadian Seamen's Union was a union wliich was not a reactionary one
and that it was in the hands of militant comrades and that the shipping tieup
which would result in both Canada and the European countries would effectively
paralyze all the ports of Europe and would deal a crippling blow to both the
Marshall plan and to the Atlantic Pact, because the dockers had been, of course,
briefed and approached and ordered to go on strike in all the ports and to tie
up shipping, which meant that it was not only the case or the question of tying
up Canadian ships. It was the question of— if the ports were paralyzed by these
ships, that the strike would spread and that all other ships of other nations, or
of Panamanian registry, would then be immobilized and the Marshall-plan
cargoes would rot and that sailing schedules would be behind time, and so on
and so forth, and that the Communist Party would actively exploit the result
of this strike.
  Now, after Fressinet spoke, Longo gave an agitational speech in Italian, which
I could see was along the same lines.      Now, previous to this I had seen copies
of For a Lasting Peace for a People's Democracy, which is the organ of the
Cominform, and I could see the party line against the Marshall plan and the
Atlantic Pact was merely being implemented in the speech given by Fressinet.
  Now, after Longo's speech, Fressinet asked me to give my opinion of what the
strike would be from the CSU viewpoint, and I told him that the members of the
CSU were being prepared for the coming strike and that we would certainly play
our part and that we had a militant background and that we would certainly
contribute our part in seeing to it that the strike was a success.
  Now, in referring to the strike, I was given by Fressinet at that meeting the
assignment that I should be transferred to the Bcaverbrae, and that is when I
found out * * * this ship was to be the key ship in the forthcoming strike. * * *
  Now, Fressinet told me that it would be very important if I should get on the
Beaverbrae and that I should take part in the coming London dock strikes, that
was from the question of experience and because also that I was held in high
                      —
esteem by the section by the maritime section of the Cominform.
  Now, I wish to stress the fact that this was not a trade-union meeting. This
was a meeting of Communist Party agitators.
   In answer to the question of whether or not any matter concerning
the welfare of seamen generally, or any resolution regarding a bona
fide wage dispute in which the seamen would be interested was dis-
cussed at this meeting, the witness replied        :




  No and that is something that scandalized me at that time, because, although
       ;

I knew Communist tactics, I didn't know they could be so blunt as that.  There
was absolutely no mention whatsoever, and when I suggested to Fressinet that
we arrange the agenda before, he told me that it was not necessary, that the
main thing was that  it was going to be against the Marshall plan and in Europe
that   wedidn't have to find excuses for these things, but that in Canada that it
was very obvious we had to convince the rank and file that it was to be carried
out for trade-union purposes, involving trade-union principles.
  In answer to a question as to whether the rank and file members
of the labor union were told the truth as to the reasons for tying up the
shipping, the witness replied      :
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                    83
   No.                                   what we said publicly and what we did
            Well, as always in these things,
        were two different things. We had to tell the rank and file that nego-
 secretly
        were being stalled by the shipowners, because the shipowners were not
 tiations
going to play ball with the union, and so on and so forth but in reality the
                                                               ;


preparations were going on all the time for this strilie. Whether the shipowners
signed the contract or agreed to sign the contract or not, the preparations were
going on and we didn't bother or care about the negotiations which officially
were going on.
  With further            reference to the occurrences at the      Genoa meeting,
Walsh testified       :



  As Lazaro Pina was the only other person coming from the American Conti-
nent,it was very important that he should stress the fact that arrangements
had been made with Ferdinand Smith, who was the former national secretary
of the National Maritime Union. * * * Pina had seen Smith on several occasions
to map out plans by rank and file committees of dock workers' unions and the
National Maritime Union would try and coordinate their work with the CSU
strike. * * * The main point of Pina's speech was to assure everyone that the
dockers on the east coast w'ould come out in sympathy strike with the CSU
strikers and would paralyze the various American ports. * * * The next speaker
was Jock Hastings, who represented the dockers rank and file committee of
Great Britain. Hastings pointed out that Jack Poponich, alias Jack Popovich,
alias Jack Pope, who, incidentally, is the brother of Harry Popovich mentioned
              —
previously that Popovich was to take up residence in Great Britain and in
coordination with the Communist Party, would see to it that all the rank and
file Communists within the dockers' union would be ready to actively support
the forthcoming strike. Hastings also remarked that if this strike could last
a year, that not only would the London docks be tied up, but all the other British
ports would be so paralyzed that it would effectively paralyze both the Marshall
plan and deal a crippling blow to the Atlantic Pact.

  Upon being asked to describe the preparation made to put the
Beaverhrae in a position which would permit of the execution of the
plans,   Walsh replied       :



                                          —
  As the Beaverhrae was the key ship that is, the strategic ship which would
                                   —
give the signal for the strike it was very important that aboard this ship
the Communists should have oldtime members of the party, who would be
reliable, and who would be ready to carry out their tasks, even in the face of
imprisonment.
   With this end in view, the Communist Party apparatus in St. John, New
Brunswick, where the Beaverhrae had its port of call, arranged to have non-
Communist crew members replaced by trusted Communist Party members, so
that when the Beaverhrae was ready for the strike, there would be oldtime,
trusted Communist members on board the ship who would not hesitate to
carry out to the full the orders to see that the port of London was effectively
paralyzed when the Beaverhrae was tied up and the dockers went out under the
prearranged plans. The Beaverhrae sailed with the choicest selection of Com-
munist agitators that ever were found aboard one ship. * * *
   As I mentioned previously, Jack Pope had contacted the dockworkers' section
of the party and everything was being prepared in London Communist members
                                                           ;


were replacing non-Communist members aboard the Beaverhrae, and also aboard
the Mont Rolland, which was the ship I was sailing on. At least 4 or 5 persons
who were found to be unreliable from the Communist Party viewpoint were put
off the ship and replaced by trusted Communist organizers.
   Previous to that we had to have a meeting so that everything would be
        —                                             —
timed that when the Beaverhrae finally left port that the signal for the
strike would be sent out to ships all over the world, because these Canadian
ships were not only sailing on the Atlantic, they were also, some of them, sailing
on the Pacific.
   And I think that the very important factor which should be stressed here
is that the Communist plan was aimed primarily at the Atlantic Pact and the
Marshall plan shipments, which is borne out by the fact that on the west coast
the CSU immediately signed an agreement with the west-coast shipowners,
because the west-coast shipowners were not involved at that time in carrying
vital cargo to European countries, but were going to Japan and China and it is
                                                                        ;


significant that when the CSU signed the separate agreement with the west-
coast shipowners that there were no wage increases granted or no improvement
84    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
of working or living conditions in the contract. It was the same contract as
before.
   So, it could be plainly seen that the strike was directly aimed at crippling
                                         —
the Atlantic shipping, but to cover up to cover up this duplicity and this double-
face dealing, the west-coast union went through the pretext of saying they had
formed another union, and that they disagreed with the policy of the east-coast
section of the union and they formed the West Coast Seamen's Union and signed
the separate contract.
  This was a camouflage tactic in case that the rank and file on the east coast
would get wise to the fact that a political strike was in the offing and not a strike
involving basic trade-union principles.
  The West Coast Seamen's Union still continues on today as a Communist-
dominated outfit and has helped Harry Bridges' union 2 months ago in effecting
the complete control of the Vancouver and Victoria dockworkers, who have
been taken over by Harry Bridges' union and the same Communist officials who
                                             ;


were on the west coast are the same Communist officials who today are in the
West Coast Seamen's Union, and they have been following the party line on the
question of peace and on various other questions. They have appealed for mercy
for the Rosenbergs and they are all known on the west coast as reliable Com-
munists.
  In describing the action which was taken on the appointed day,
Walsh      testified     :




   Well, the whole strike hinged on the Beaverhrae coming into the Royal docks
in London and the crew immediately going out on strike and appealing to the
dockworkers not to load or unload this ship because it was on strike. This would
immediately paralyze the whole London dock area because it was well known
that the British dockers, irrespective of whether they were Communists or non-
Communists, had a tradition of union solidarity, and that everything had been
           —
arranged that they would be hoodwinked into believing that this was a bona
fide strike involving trade-imion principles.
   So the strike signal would be also the signal for dockworkers in all the other
                 —
British ports Southampton, Liverpool, Leith, Swansea, Cardiff, and the other
     —
ports to also go out on strike and refuse to load and unload Canadian ships
on strike, which effiectively meant that all other ships coming into port or wait-
ing to come into port would he paralyzed until the strike was ended. * * *
   After the Beaverhrae left port, the last-minute preparations were made to
assure that we had reliable Communist members on all other ships which were
sailing, and then the strike signal was given by Harry Davis, and appeals were
also automatically sent out to all the dockers' unions all over the world to pledge
their support and their solidarity with the strike of the Canadian seamen. * * *
   The original plan was thar I was supposed to sail on the Beaverhrae, but then
it was decided that it was very important that we could tie up all the Italian
ports because all the Italian unions were Communist unions, and we wanted to
effectively paralyze shipping in Italy, too, because Italy was getting a lot of
Marshall-plan shipments, and it was important that we should see to it that thei
ships would all be tied up.     So I left on the Mont Rolland instead of on the
Beaverhrae. *        *       *
  While on our       way                           we were originally scheduled
                          to the port of Naples, where
to sail   and                                      a cablegram from the owners
                to land, the captain got a telegram or
                                     —
of the ship, Dreyfus Bros. they had a subsidiary company called the Montreal
Shipping and these ships belonged to this company. The Dreyfus company
ordered the captain to proceed to a non-Italian port, and more precisely to the
port of Beirut in Lelianon, where it was known that the Communists had no
power or control whatsoever over the dockworkers' union.
  This, of course, changed our plans because in this strike we couldn't very well
mutiny at sea because we would have left ourselves open to a very serious
charge. Not only that, the main question was to tie up the ships so that we
would paralyze the ports and a mutiny at sea did not constitute a tying up of
a ship. What we wanted to do was to create chaos and havoc in the ports.
  In describing what occurred upon the arrival of the Beaverhrae
according to plan at the London dock, and subsequently, Mr. Walsh
gave this account                :




  It created quite a crisis, not only in London but in the whole British Empire,
because London is a vital seaport and the London docks are supposed to be the
        AI>mUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                           85

greatest docks in the world. Hundreds of ships were tied up and rendered
useless when these two ships, the Bearerbrae and the Argomont, reached their
ports and their crews walked out. Immediately, by a prearranged plan, all the
                                                              —
dock workers of the port of London refused to work that is, to load or unload
cargoes, not only from these two ships, but from all the other ships in port, which
meant that every day there were possibly hundreds of other ships that wanted
to come into poi't and were held off and this went on for months and months,
                                               :



with the result that hundreds of millions of dollars were lost, shipping sched-
ules were retarded, and that the Marshall plan certainly received a serious
           *   *   *
blow.
     Nearly   the other ports were affected where Canadian ships were tied up,
               all
but principally Southampton, Liverpool. Leith, Swansea, and Cardiff. The
dockers there walked out in solidarity with the Canadian Seamen's Union strike,
                                                                        * * *
and this also contributed to creating chaos in the shipping industry.
   On the continent of Europe where, with the exception of Italy, the shipowners
decided to cancel the shipping to Italy but in France, for example, in various
                                                   ;



ports like Marseilles, Cherbourg, and LeHavre, the French dockworkers, com-
pletely controlled by the General Confederation of Labor, which is a Communist-
run organization, immediately went out on strike in support of the Canadian
Seamen's Union strike and tied up all these docks, which resulted in all the
shipping facilities being paralyzed. In some places the dockworkers even went
further and they threw some cargo overboard. Other cargo was watered, as we
say in seagoing language, and various attempts were *made to sabotage ma-
                                                        *   *
chinery, not only ship machinery, but port machinery.
   The results were very far reaching, insofar as 77 ships were successfully tied
up, immobilized. And when I say 77 ships, I wish to stress the fact, something
which I forgot, that Fressinet at the Genoa meeting prophesied that 78 ships
would be tied up, and this was months before the actual stril<e took place. So
it just goes to show you with what precautions and with what detailed plans
that these top Communist agitators had when they knew beforehand how many
ships would be tied up, when even the shipowners could not have guessed whether
they would have had 5 or 85 ships tied up.
   This showed that Fressinet was sure of the cooperation of the Communist
dockworkers' unions from New Zealand to Vancouver and from San Francisco
to    London.
   Now, there were over 200 CSU seamen who were arrested in ports all over
the world. There were at least 5 seamen killed, including 2 in San Francisco,
and there were also in Halifax and St. John probably 15 or 20 who were
wounded as Communists tried to intimidate and tried to brutalize strikers or,
rather, nonstrikers who did not want to participate in the strike.
   Now, for example, in Cuba the crews of the Canadian Victor and the Federal
Pioneer mutinied when the captain refused to sail into the port of Habana.
There in the port of Habana, Lazaro Pina had arranged for the Cuban dock-
workers to go out on strike and to effectively paralyze the Habana dock facili-
ties. When the captain did not want to sail into the port, the crew attempted
to intimidate the captain by openly creating mutiny on ship, and it got to such
serious proportion that the Cuban Government had to send a gunboat to subdue
the mutineers.
  On the west coast of the United States, Harry Bridges' longshoremen's union
cooperated in Seattle and in San Francisco entirely with the Canadian Seamen's
Union. Crew members of ships who happened to be at that time in Seattle and
San Francisco were fed by Harry Bridges' union and donations were being
raised every day by the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's
Union. It is a historical fact that the Marine Cooks and Stewards also openly
cooperated and donated financial assistance to the Communist-led crews in these
two     ports.

   The witness testified that cooperation with the Canadian Seamen's
Union strike on the east coast of the United States was a complete
fiasco, as the National Maritime Union had succeeded in cleaning house
and getting rid of Ferdinand Smith and the International Long-
shoremen's Association.   It will be recalled that deportation proceed-
ings were pending at this time against Ferdinand Smith. How the
strike was ultimately settled, after the vital shipping of the world had
been tied up for many months, is described by the witness as follows                   :




     The   strike      was   settled   due to the energetic intervention of the Seafarers'
International Union, which               was also a very anti-Communist union and when
                                                                               ;
86      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
the shipowners saw that the Canadian Seamen's Union was not acting In good
faith  and did not care to negotiate, but was carrying on this strike which threat-
ened the very existence of the Canadian merchant marine, it called upon the
Seafarers' International Union to take over and to man the ships. The Sea-
farers' International Union succeeded, despite Communist violence and intimida-
tion, in getting Canadian crews to man the strikebound ships.
   Now this was not done in a day or a week, or in a month. This was done in a
period of 6 months, because it was a very difficult thing for the Seafarers' Interna-
tional Union to man the strike bound ships because they had to go through picket
lines of strong-arm men, who were sometimes armed with clubs, and the Canadian
Government was so alarmed at the violence which was being displayed by the
Communist strong-arm squads that they had to ask the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police to step in and to prevent seamen who wanted to sail the ships from being
murdered, because there were about 300 people who were injured by these CSU
strong-arm men who used to rove around the streets at this new union. So finally,
when the Seafarers' International Union was able to supply crews, for example,
to Australia and New Zealand and South Africa, and to France and Great Britain
and other countries, they were able to man the ships and the strike finally
petered out because the Canadian Seamen's Union did not have any more con-
tracts.   In the meantime there were many of the seamen who had been dis-
gusted with this political strike and rallied to the Seafarers' International
        —
Union and that's how the strike was ended.
   Upon beino; asked whether the use of          Seafarers* International   Union
to break the strike   was   a contingency    which the Communist Party had
not prepared for, the witness replied        :



  That is the one thing that they did not anticipate. At the Genoa meeting or at
another meeting in Marseilles, which I will speak about later on, and which was
attended by Mr. Goldblatt, of the Longshoremen's Union from San Francisco, at
no time was it ever discussed that there was a possibility that another union
would be able to intervene and man the strike-bound ships. This was not dis-
cussed because the (Communists were so confident that their methods of violence
would eventually triumph that they did not take that into consideration, because




     *******
in previous strikes on the Great Lakes the Canadian Seamen's Union had always
been able to win the strikes because of the superiority of their gangster tactics,
and they thought that they had completely intimidated any other union from
even thinking of trying to compete with them.

  The Canadian Government      realized this strike was a sabotage attempt, not
only against the Merchant Marine of Canada but that it was a strike which had
nothing to do with wage increases and that it could not be called a bona fide
strike  and so, the Canadian Government was happy at the intervention of
        ;


another bona fide trade union.
  Mr. Walsh, like others who have broken with the Communist Party,
had very definite reasons for his break. Of this, he said:
   I should have stated this at the start of my testimony, but the questions were
                       —                 —
about the great strike the CSU strike for a number of years I have had no
illusions on what communism is.      I was led to believe that it was something
which I found subsequently was very contrary to the idealism that I had attached
to the idea  and when I woke up, so to speak, and when I finally realized to what
              ;


extent that such a thing as treason and sabotage and murder and assassination
were part and parcel of the Communist doctrine and practice, I decided to break
away from the Communists but I met some people who were undercover agents
                            ;


within the Communist Party and who convinced me that I should continue in
order to gather as much information as possible, so that I would be able to testify
later on as to the extent and to the seriousness of the menace of communism
which, unfortunately, the people of Canada at that time did not take very seri-
ously, and I was able to cooperate with various anti-Communist groups in giving
them advance information and to put the brakes on many violent outbreaks and
to even prevent the scuttling of a ship.  The Mont Rolland was scheduled to be
scuttled and I prevented the scuttling of that ship.

  The committee      is greatly indebted to this citizen of a
                                                              neighboring
countrywho took      the time and trouble to come to this country and add
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                   87

SO   much to the knowledge of                  the committee on the subversive activities
of the  Communist Party.
     The committee was also    furnished valuable testimony by John
Mills Davis, Nicholas Campas, Jack Davis, and Samuel Evens, all
of whom testified concerning not only Communist activities in the
Albany area but elsewhere as well. Some 15 other persons, identified
as members of the Communist Party, appeared before the committee.
These individuals refused to answer committee questions, claiming
the privilege of the fifth amendment.
     The following persons were                 identified as   Communist Party members
during the course of hearings held in Albany, N. Y.                       :




                                                                      Identified by:
Albertson, William                                      Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Former         officer,   Waiters Union Local         Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
      16,   New York         City.
iJexiou, Costas                                         Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Former           Washington, D. C,
                 officer,                               Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
      Hotel and Restaurant Employees'
    Union.
Arnold, Robert                                          John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Former employee,    United                   States   Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
    Weather Bureau, Albany.
Barry, Arthur                                           Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Member    of Young Communist League                   (Witness identified Mr. Barry as a mem-
      branch in New York City, 1935.                      ber of the Young Communist League.)
        Jim
Bartlett,                                               Nicholas Campas. July 14, 1953. (Wit-
  Young Communist League                  organizer.      ness identified Mr. Bartlett as a men>-
                                                          ber of the Young Communist League.)
Belinky, Harriet (Mrs. Sidney Belinky)                  John Mills Davis. July 15, 1953.
  Albany.                                               Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Belinky, Sidney                                         John Mills Davis, July 15. 1953.
  Laundry worker, Albany.                               Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
       (Appeared July 16, 1953 refused     ;

        to       affirm
                    deny    or           Communist
      Party membership.)
Bender, William                                         John Mills Davis, July   15, 1953.
  Local    Retail-Wholesale and Depart-
            2.
    ment Store Workers.
Blake, George                                           John Mills Davis, July   15, 1953.
  Organization director for Communist
    Party,   Borough of Manhattan,
      1946.
Bottcher, William                                       John Mills Davis, July 15. 1953.
  New York State employee, Albany.                      Samuel Ehens, July 16, 1953.
Brickman, Anna                                          John Mills Davis, July 15. 1953.
  Housewife, Albany.                                    Samuel Evens. .July 16, 1953.
Brodsky, Carl                                           John Mills Davis, July 1-5, 1953.
  Insurance business.
Carr, Clarence                                          Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Officer of Leather Workers Union,                     Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
      Gloversville, N. Y.
Cohen, Flo (Mrs. Ralph Cohen)                           John Mills Davis, July 15. 1953.
  Albany.                                               Samuel Evens, July 16. 1953.
Cohen, Ralph                                            John Mills Davis, .July 15. 1953.
  Albany.                                               Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Crago, Amalia Pesko (also known as                      Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
    Cucchiara or Cook)                                  Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
  Albany.                                               John Mills Davis, July 15. 1953.
                                                        Samuel Evens. July 16, 1953.
Crago, Joe (also          known      as Cucchiara or    John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
      Cook)                                             Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
  Albany.
88    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                             Identified by
Dakchoylous, Kostas                                         John Mills Davis, July     15, 1953.
  Business agent, Hotel and Restau-
    rant Workers local in Albany.
Davis, Clara (Mrs. John Davis)              Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Dodd, Rena                                  Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
  Former employee. New           York State John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
    Health Department.                      Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
       (Appeared July 15, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Doran, Sadie                                                Jack Davis, July    14, 1953.
  Schenectady, N. T.
Dorenz, Arnold                                              Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953. (Wit-
  Member of Young Communist League                            ness identified Mr. Dorenz as a mem-
    in Albany, 1937.                                          ber of the Young Communist League.)
Dorenz, Charles                                             Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Member of Painters Union Albany.       ;                  Jack Davis, Julv 14, 1953.
                                                            John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
Douglas, Kelly (Bud)                                        Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
  Albany.
Dworkin,   Jeauette         (Mrs.                Michael    John Mills Davis, July     15, 1953.
  Dworkin)                                                  Samuel Evens, July 16,      1953.
Dworkin, Michael                                            John Mills Davis, July     15, 1953.
  New York State employee Albany.;
                                                            Sanuiel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Edelsteiu,     Sam                                          Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Clerk and kitchen worker Albany.   ;



Feay, Herbert                                               Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  New York State employee.                                  Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
Fialkoff, Si                                                Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Communist Party organizer                      in Troy,
     N. Y., area.
Fields, Shirley                                             Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953. (Wit-
  Member of Young        Communist League                     ness identified Shirley Fields as a
     in   New York     City, 1935.                            member of the Young Communist
                                                              League. )

Flory, Ishmael                                              Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  With Dining Car Employees.                                Jack Davis, July 14. 1953.
Geller,   Hilda (Mrs. Louis Geller)                         John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
                                                            Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Geller, Louis                                               John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Electrician, Albany.                                      Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
          (Appeared July 14, 1953; refused                  Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953. (Mr.
          to affirm or deny Communist                         Campas identified Mr. Geller as a
          Party membership.)                                  member    of    the   Young Communist
                                                              League.)
Gentilli, Salvatore                                         Jack Davis, July    14, 1953.
   Officer in a waiters      union in               New
     York      City.
Gerstinheim, Leo                                            Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.  (Wit-
  Member       Young Communist League
               of                                             ness identified Mr. Gerstinheim as a
     in   New York City, 1935.                                member of the Young Communist
                                                              League. )
Gold, Irving                                                John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Former associate personnel techni-                        Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
    cian in New York State Civil Serv-
    ice Department, Albany.
       (Appeared July 15, 1953 refused       ;

      to affirm or deny Communist
          Party membership.)
Gold, Mike                                                  John Mills Davis, July      15, 1953.
  Writer.                                                     Also identifieed by a former      Commu-
                                                                nist in 1952.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                         89
                                                                         Identified hy
Gold, Stella                          John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
                        (Mrs. Irving Gold)
  Housewife, Albany.                  Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Goldistein, Evelyn (Mrs. Nathan Gold- John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
     stein nee Miusky)
           ;                          Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
  Former bookkeeper.
      (Appeared July 15, 1953 refused           ;


      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Goldstein,         Nathan                                   John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Upholstery worker, Albany.                                Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Gordon, Frances "Mike" (Mrs. Harry                          John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Gordon also known as Mrs. Harry
               ;                                            Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
  Gordon Itskowitz.               )

Gordon, Harry (legal name:                          Harry   John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Gordon Itskowitz.)                                        Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
    Salesman.
      (Appeared July                  15,   1953 refused
                                                ;


      to           affirm
                    deny     or               Communist
      Party membership.)
Gordon, Max                                                 Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Communist party functionary.                              Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
Hacker, Carl                                                Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  International organizer for Hotel and                     Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
     Restaurant Employees' Union.
Hatcliigan, Donald                                          Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Employee of cleaning and dyeing                           Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    plant, Troy, N. Y.                                      John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
Herman. David                                               Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  President of Hotel and Club Workers,                      Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    Local 6, New York City.
       (Jack Davis testified he believed
       David Herman had left the Com-
       munist Party.)
Itskowitz.  Frances "Mike" Gordon.
   (See Frances Gordon.)
Itskowitz, Harry Gordon.     (See Harry
  Gordon.)
Jacobson, Helen                                             John Mills Davis, July   15, 1953.
  Local 2, Retail-Wholesale and De-
     partment Store Workers, New
    York           City.
Jennings, Ruth                                              Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953. (Wit-
  Member           of   Young Communist League                ness identitied Ruth Jennings as
    in Schenectady, 1937.                                     a member of the Young Communist
                                                              League. )
Kaufman, IVIrs. Sarah,                                      John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  (nee Schwartzman)                                         Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
    Housewife, Albany.
      (Appeared July 14, 1953 refused           ;


      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
King. James                                                 Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
                 County, and Munici-
  Officer of State,                                         Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    pal Workers Union.
Klein, Dorothy. (See Dorothy Loeb.)
Klein, Harold                                               Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.                              John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
                                                            Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.

Klein, Joseph.              (Also     known    as Joseph    Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Stone)
  Communist Party functionary, Sche-
    nectady.
Kolker, Alexander                                           John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Railroad worker.                                          Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
      47400        —54-
90      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON XJN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                Identified iy
Kotick,     Mary                                  John Mills Davis, July   15, 1958.
  Local   Retail-Wholesale and Depart-
            2,
     ment Store Workers, New York
     City.
Kramberg, Sam                                     Nicholas Campas, July     14, 1953.
  Former   Officer of Cafeteria Workers
     Union, local 302, New York City.
LaFortune, George                                 Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Troy, N. Y.                                     Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.

Lahne, Selma                                      Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Waitress.
Lane, Gertrude                                    Jack Davis, July   14, 1953.
  Officer in Hotel and Club Employees'
    Union, local 6, New York City.
        Jack Davis testified he believed
        (


       Gertrude Lane had left the Com-
       munist Party.)
Laros, Betty                                      .Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
  Employee of the State of New York.              John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
       (Appeared July 15, 1953 refused;
                                                  Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
        to           deny Communist
                 affirm   or
      Party membership.)
Lawrence, Bill. (See section of this re-
  port on hearings held in New York
  City.)
Lazari, Nick                                      Nicholas Campas, July     14, 1953.
  Officer  of Hotel and Restaurant
     Union, Pittsburgh.
Loeb, Dorothy (also known as Dorothy              Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
    Klein alleged wife of Joseph Klein,
                 ;


     also known as Joseph Stone)
  Communist Party fuctionary.
Lubin, Louis J.                                   John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Dentist                                         Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
        (Appeared July 16, 1953 refused
                                      ;


        to affirm or deny Communist
        Party membership.)
Michelson, William.    (See section of
  this report on hearings held in New
  York      City.)
Oberkirch, Charles                                Jack Davis, July   14, 1953.
  Officer  of  Hotel and Restaurant
     Workers Union, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Obermier, Mike                                    Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Former officer of Hotel and Club Em-            Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
     ployees Union.
O'Connor, Paul                                    Jack Davis, July   14, 1953.
  UE organizer. New England.
Parker, Herbert                                   Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Communist Party organizer in Young
     Communist League.
Pesko, Amalia.            (See   Amalia   Pesko
  Crago. )
Poziomek, John (also spelled John                 John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
    Piziomek)                                     Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
  Barber.
Rappaport, David (legal name: Arpad               Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
    David Rappaport)                              Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
  Former employee, New York State                 John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
    Department of Social Welfare.                 Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
       (Appeared July 15, 1953 refused;

      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Rich, Harry                            Nicholas Campas, July 14,                 1953.
  Former officer of Cooks Union, Local Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    89, New York   City.
         AISTSrUAL      REPORT, COIVLMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                         91

                                                                     Identified by
Riibiu, Jay                                   Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Officer of Hotel         and Club Employees Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    Union, Local 6, New York City.
      (Jack Davis testified he believed
      Jay Rubin has left the Commu-
      nist Party.)
Schulz, Willie                                          Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Former         officer   of   Waiter's       Union,   Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    Local 219, New York City.
Schwarzbart, Elias "EU"                                 John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Attorney.                                             Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
       (Appeared July 15, 1953; denied
         present membership in the Com-
         munist Party, but refused to
         affirm or deny past membership. )
Schweukmyer, Frieda                Nicholas Campas, July 14,                         1953.
  Former organizer for Amalgamated Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    Clothing Workers Union, Troy,
         N. Y.
Scott,   Janet                                          John Mills Dayis, July 15, 1953.
  Newspaperwoman                                        Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
        Appeared July 14, 1953 refused
         (                             ;


          affirm or deny Communist
         to
      Party membership.)
Shapiro, Hannah (Mrs. Leon Shapiro)                     John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Teacher                                               Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
       (Appeared July 15, 1953 refused ;


      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Shapiro, Leon                                           John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Communist Party fimctionary.                          Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
Short, Irene                                            Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953. (Wit-
  Leader of          Youns Communist League,              ness identified Irene Short as a mem-
    New York            City, 1935.                       ber of the Young Communist League.)

Sidman, I. Nathan                      Nicholas Campas, July                     14, 1953.
  Attorney    vice chairman of Rens- John Mills Davis, July
                 ;                                                               15, 1953.
     selaer County Committee of Ameri-
     can Labor Party.
Stathis, George                        Nicholas Campas, July                      14, 1953.
  Waiter.                               John Mills Davis, July                  15, 1953.
Stone, Joseph.  {See Joseph Klein.)
Weinstein, Evelyn                       John Mills Davis, July                  15, 1953.
       (Witness testified he understood
       Evelyn Weinstein did not remain
         in the party.)
Winston, William                                        Samuel Evens, July   16, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary,                   New
    York        City.
Wright, Arthur                                          Samuel Evens, July   16, 1953.
  New York State employee.
      (Witness testified Mr. Wright
      told him he was leaving the
         party.)
Wright, John                                            Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Former                  Division of
                     employee   of                      Jack Davis, July 14, 1953.
    Parole, State of New York.                          John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
       (Appeared July 15, 1953; re-                     Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
      fused to affirm or deny Commu-
         nist    Party membership.)
Yarman, Mike                                            Nicholas Campas, July 14, 1953.
  Restaurant employee.
Zuckman, Morris                                         John Mills Davis, July 15, 1953.
  Attorney.                                             Samuel Evens, July 16, 1953.
         (Appeared July 14, 1953 refused   ;


         to affirm or deny Communist
         Party membership.)
             SOVIET SCHEDULE FOR             WAR— 1955
                    Testimony of Col. Jan Bukar
  An important part of the duties and responsibilities which have been
imposed by the Congress upon the House Committee on Un-American
Activities is the ascertainment of the nature, extent, and objectives of
subversive propaganda emanating from foreign sources.
  In May 1953, the committee received the testimony of a former
Slovakian Army officer who, for reasons of security, in appearing
before tlie committee, used an assumed name, CoL Jan Bukar.
   Colonel Bukar testified that in tlie fall of 1939, as an officer in
the Czechoslovakian Army, which was then joined with Hitler's army,
he had fought against Poland until the fall of that country. He
had also engaged in battles against the Soviet Union. It w^as dur-
ing that period that Colonel Bukar began to assist Russian partisans
in their fight against Germany. He related that in one instance, while
he was supposed to be assisting the Germans, he had arranged circum-
stances in such a manner that while it appeared he had made a tactical
error, he had actually allowed Russian forces to escape through Ger-
man lines. As a result of this act, Bukar became a hero of the Russian
underground and because of the services he had rendered the Russian
Government, he was approached by certain Russian officials who urged
him to form a Soviet-Slovak Republic.
   One of the highlights of Colonel Bukar's testimony was the infor-
mation he gave concerning a Soviet military school which he attended
from 1945 to 1947. The school, which was known as the Frunze Mili-
tary School, was located in Moscow, and attended by approximately
3,000 students composed largely of officers who had participated in
World War II. He described the instructors of the school as high Com-
munist generals and officials of the Soviet Foreign Office.   A  part of
the curriculum of this school was a course in firearms and other instru-
ments of war. He related how the students engaged in hypothetical
warfare against forces representing America, England, Turkey,
Japan, and Germany. The students at the Frunze School were also
tau<Tht methods of strategy to be employed in communizing capitalistic
nations, and he explained that the key positions that were the objec-
tives of the Communist Party for seizure in all instances were the
Ministries of the Interior, Army, and Industries.
   The instructors at this military school informed the students that
the Soviet Union recognized the United Nations as exercising no
authority over it, but that the United Nations served as a vantage point
 for the Communists from which events transpiring in the Western
World could be kept under close surveillance.
   The portion of Colonel Bukar's testimony from which the title for
his testimony is derived was that upon the excuse that Great Britain
 was preparing for an attack to destroy the Soviet Union in 1955, the
 Soviet Union would undertake an offensive before that time.
     92
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                       93

                      Lieutenant Franciszek Jarecki
  Lt. Franciszek Jarecki is the first young Polish jet pilot who es-
caped with a Polish jet plane, to the island of Bornholm, Denmark.
Lieutenant Jarecki appeared before the committee and furnished it
with information concerning the anti-American propaganda that is
bemg disseminated by the Communist rulers of Poland. He stated
that, in one sense, false propaganda furnished by the Communists
                                                                  is

what led   to his successful flight from Poland. Lieutenant Jarecki
stated that   tlie   Communists told    their jet fliers that   Denmark was
American-controlled and that there was an American airbase on the
island of Bornholm. While Lieutenant Jarecki believed this to be
the case, he did not believe the propaganda that the American Govern-
ment was the enemy of the Polish people. At the first opportunity,
he set the course of his plane for Bornholm where he landed in an
open field and later asked for and was granted asylum in Denmark.
Subsequently he made his way to the United States.
  Lieutenant Jarecki expressed the belief that the large majority^ of
Polish people are against communism, but that he believed time
was working for the Kussians, due to the fact that they have been in
control of the country for such a long period of time.
  He stated that he believed the Polish people were still loyal to
democratic principles and commented that the Polish people "are
like a radish  — it is red outside, but white inside."


                       Dr.   Marek Stanislaw Korowicz
   In addition to the testimony furnished the committee by Lt. Fran-
ciszek Jarecki concerning the anti-American propaganda and activi-
ties being engaged in by Soviet puppets in Poland, the committee also
received the testimony of Dr. Marek Stanislaw Korowicz.
   Dr. Korowicz, until a few days before his appearance, was the
alternate Polish delegate to the United Nations. Dr. Korowicz testi-
fied that he had never succumbed to Communist ideology, nor had
he ever been a member of the Communist Party. He has a lengthy
background of legal training and experience, and, on the basis of this,
was selected by the Polish Government to be an alternate delegate
to the United Nations as chairman of the Sixth Commission of
Jurists.
   Dr. Korowicz, in the course of his testimony, stated that the Polish
delegation to the United Nations and its members were instructed
on all occasions to cooperate closely with the delegation from the
Soviet Union and to receive their orders from the Russian delegation.
He said that the Polish delegation was nothing but an extension of the
Russian delegation. Dr. Korowicz furnished the committee with testi-
mony  as to the true conditions of a Sovietized country, when he
stated    :




  The Soviet gauleiters have turned Poland into one immense totalitarian prison
camp. The Bolshevist regime has succeeded in making of Poland, which is po-
tentially one of the richest countries in Europe, a land of misery, oppression,
and exploitation of the working classes. The so-called brotherly help that the
U. S. S. R. boasts of giving to Poland is a gigantic lie. It is, in fact, the most
cruel system of colonial administration operating for the sole benefit of Soviet
Russia.
94     ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
   The Communists have proclaimed that in Poland there are 2 million members
registered in the party, to which they add 2 million members of the Young Com-
munist Movement. Now, these young people of approximately 14 years of age
are not members of any political party. They are being indoctrinated. But the
importance given to the number of Communists in Poland must be considered
also as a lie. At the maximum the Communist Party only includes 6 to 7 percent
of the population.
  In the case of a free election, unhappily impossible under present circum-
stances, I do not believe that the Communist votes would represent more than 2
percent of the total.
'
  I am absolutely confident that I am speaking not only for myself but for millions
of my countrymen in giving to you the following thoughts   :   We
                                                                Poles see in recent
events in Russia only some tactical changes, but certainly no change in the Soviet
master strategy.  We   Poles who live close to Russia believe that the Soviet has
not made drastic and fundamental changes in its policy. They know in Moscow
that under present circumstances war is not the be.st and the safest way to
achieve their aims. As seen in Poland, the Soviet aim remains that of world
conquest. The Soviet master plan or grand strategy looks to achieve this final
aim in 1970 or 1980, and this plan is based on the progressive destruction of
the cultural, economic, and political foundations of the free world.
  First the Soviet Union is making a tremendous effort to achieve the integration
of the numerous and diverse elements among its empire of 800 million i)eople.

    The committee wishes to express its appreciation to these individuals
who have   fled the Communist terror which is in control of their native
countries, and wishes to extend an invitation to any other individual
who finds himself in a similar plight to avail himself of this committee
and furnish whatever information he may possess which will be of
help to the Congress and to the American people in perfecting the
defense of   human freedom and human            dignity.
                             KELIGION
  The world Communist conspiracy started with a basic fundamental
premise that communism, as a political and social force, could never
succeed in its goal of world domination so long as the fires of faith
in God and a belief in the immortality of the soul remained in the
hearts, the souls, and the minds of men.     Every Communist leader
since Marx and Engels has stressed the necessity for the destruction of
religious faith as a cardinal point in the Communist attack. While
the leaders of the conspiracy have, from time to time, deviated, de-
toured, or retraced their courses in political, economic, and military
matters as the demands of expediency and opportunism dictated, on
no occasion has there been a deviation from the theme as enunciated by
Nikolai Lenin that religion must, at all costs, be destroyed if commu-
nism were ever to achieve a final and complete victory over the persons
of free men.
  Lenin stated :


  ''Down with religion!      Long live atheism! The spread of atheistic
vieivs isour chief task.''''
  The crass materialism of communism replaces Bethlehem with the
shrine of Lenin, and the symbols of Christianity and Judaism with the
mummified remains of the patron saint "Discord."
  All Americans, including the individual members of the House Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities, draw strength and inspiration from
the great religious codes of history. All realize that the church, irre-
spective of denomination or creed, represents the greatest and most
effective bulwark against communism and its agents.
  Communists recognize the advantage in, and the necessity for,
organization, and the one force they fear is the force represented by
great and dedicated bodies of men and women banded together in com-
mon cause. Today, throughout the world, in dank prison cells and
behind the barbed wire of concentration camps, the Communist mas-
ters of enslaved peoples hold as hostages hundreds of men and women
of the cloth. Unspeakable torture and mental agony have been im-
posed upon these servants of God in an effort to bring about recanta-
tions of faith and a denial of spiritual values. In this effort, the
Communists have met with one of their greatest defeats. However,
and history records the tragic fact again and again, those who would
rule the world go around and under obstacles when it is no longer
possible to pass through them. Wliere threats and tortures have
proved equally unavailing, the Communists have called upon guile
and subterfuge to recruit to their causes, if not to their organization,
a number of individuals within the area of religion, individuals who,
in many cases, have been and are completely unaware of the purposes
for which they have been used and the ends to which the prestige of
their names has been lent.   A minute number of case-hardened Com-
munists and Communist sympathizers have actually infiltrated them-
                                                                95
96   ANNUAL KEPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

selves into tlw ranks of the loyal clergy, and sworn testimony relative
to this fact is in the possession of the House Committee on Un-Ameri-
can Activities.
   An examination of the record reflects that only a very small number
of clergymen in the United States have been consistent fellow trav-
elers with the Communist Party.        These individuals have consistently
followed the Communist Party line and Soviet foreign policy through
frequent reversals and flip-flops of official party doctrine.
   For these the committee can ofi^er no explanation other than that
they are true fellow travelers with communism.
   What, then, is the reason why any of the remaining great body of
loyal and patriotic members of the clergy have been associated in name
at least with one or more Communist groups ?           For the most part, it
appears to stem from humanitarian desire and possibly a lack of
careful study.
   The classic Communist trap for the unwily and the unwitting is
the ^ommunist-front group in the United States. The fronts, like
pilot fish, attach themselves to any and all worthwhile causes, par-
ticularly those having to do with minority groups in the United
States or with social and economic problems peculiar to or partici-
ptvted in by large bodies of citizens.    In an effort to lend respectability
and achieve widespread acceptance of such front organizations, the
Communists have long sought to obtain the use of the names of well-
known Americans of unquestioned loyalty. It is unfortunate to re-
late that in this effort the Communists have achieved a considerable
measure of success.
   Of necessity, a clergyman's life is a busy one, and it is understand-
able that there might be instances when a telephone call is received
or a person stops by and asks that the name of the clergyman be
given for some cause, and, upon learning that it is for peace or civil
rights, such permission is granted.         It might even follow that the
additional step of inquiry is made to determine other sponsors of the
organization. In such instances, the organizers of these organizations
are adroit at selecting the names of the more prominent, irreproach-
able individuals.
   The committee feels that all of these might be contributing factors
where names of members of the clergy, who themselves are unalter-
ably opposed to communism, are found in connection with Communist-
front groups. Tlie committee recognizes them, but still does not feel
that such association should be taken lightly or passed off without cor-
rection.   The clergymen is respected because of the life to which he
has dedicated himself. He is naturally looked upon as above the
ordinary man and, as a result, his responsibility is greater than that
of the ordinary man. The fact that an organization has the apparent
support of numerous members of the clergy would certainly give
encouragement to other indiyyifjals to become associated with or to
contribute funds to such an orjr
                                                   '


                                        'lation.
                                               ,




   Some members of the clergy          .-el  as other persons in professions
have been particularly lax in    ;;,
                                      ^f^^ a,^JJycYoi\gh investigation
                                           .                           of the
causes and groups to which thepres* geiir their names has been lent.
The names of too many men of the cloth appear as sponsors, directors,
or contributors to organizations which were established by the Com-
munist Party to serve the Communist ends, even though the number
 is very small in comparison to loyal clergy.           Failure to properly
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN              ACTIVITIES     97

comprehend the purposes of such groups and organizations has re-
sulted in the appearance, on official forms, documents, and publica-
tions of the front groups, of the names of a number of American
clergymen.      The committee     is   confident that the great majority of
those   who                        names to such Communist-inspired
              lent the prestige of their
and Communist-dominated movements as the Scientific and Cultural
Conference for World Peace held at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in
New York City on March 25, 26, and 27, 1949, \yere completely unaware
of the true nature and extent of Communist direction.
  The connnittee realizes that the temper of the times has changed
considerably over the past 10 or 15 years, and that there is a keener
awareness of subversive activities than there was in the late 1930's
and early 1940's. The committee is aware that there was scant notifi-
cation to individuals of the true nature of many organizations over
this period.   The fact is that from 1939, until the enactment of the
Internal Security Act of 1950, for which this committee is chiefly
                                                                     nza-
responsible, the only official congressional body designating orga
tions as subversive was this committee.
  The House Committee on Un-American Activities has conducted
no investigation of subversive infiltration of the clergy or religion and    "
no such investigation is contemplated.
   The committee has proceeded in its investigations on the premise
that a member of the Communist Party enjoys no immunity from in-
vestigation, regardless of his rank or calling.
                                                In the instances where
the committee has determined that an individual member of the clergy
is or had been a member of the Communist Party, the committee has

proceeded exactly as it would in the case of any other person
                                                                    so
identified.
  The official record establishes that, as in other fields, the few mem-
bers of the clergy who have associated with Communist causes is a
minute percentage of the hundreds of thousands of loyal, patriotic
men of the cloth.
                            Jack Richard McMichael-

  As has been  reflected in other parts of this report, the House Com-
mittee on     Un-AmericanActivities is charged by the Congress with the
investigation of subversive activities wherever they may be found.
  In the hearings held in New York City in July 1953, the committee
heard the testimony of Manning Johnson and Leonard Patterson, both
of whom had been members of the Communist Party in the United
States.   Both Johnson and Patterson had testified for the Govern-
ment in the prosecution of Communist leaders in the Smith Act cases,
as well as before the Subversive Activities Control Board. The efforts
of defense counsel in these cases to shake the testimony of these wit-
                                               ^

nesses failed and their testimony has     n unimpeached.
  In the course of his testimony,        ding Johnson, on July 8, 1953,
                                           •

testified as follows    :
                                       i


  Mr. ScHERER. Mr. Johnson, dK-y i kfi      ^'ny otber person who was an officer
of the Methodist Federation [for Hod'h Action] at any time who was a member
of the Communist Party?
  Mr. Johnson. Yes; the Reverend Jack McMichael was a member of the
Methodist Federation.
98    ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES



     *******
  Mr. ScHEREE. What was his connection with the Metliodist Federation?
  Mr. Johnson. He was executive secretary of the Methodist Federation for
Social Action up until 1953.


  Mr. SCHEBEB. How did you know that Reverend McMichael \vas a Communist?
  Mr. .Johnson. Well, during the period that I was member of the Communist
Party, during the thirties, Jack McMichael was a member of the national com-
mittee of the Young Communist League, and he was also a member of the Com-
munist Party, and from time to time he met with the now fugitive Communist,
Gilbert Green, who was head of the Young Communist League at that time, and
he attended occasionally meetings of the national committee of the Communist
Party with Gilbert Green.
  ]\Ir. ScHEREK. Was Reverend McMichael still a member of the Communist

Party when you left the party?
  Mr. Johnson. Yes he was.
                    ;




  During the same jS[ew York hearings, Leonard Patterson furnished
the committee with the following testimony        :




   Mr. KuNziG. When you were in the Young Commvanist League, did you ever
know one Jack McMichael?
   Mr. Patterson. Yes.
   Mr. KuNziG. What position did he hold in the Young Communist League?
   ]Mr. Patterson. He was a member of the New York District of the Young
Communist League and was a member of the top faction of the Young Commu-
nist League and the Communist Party in the American League Against War and
Fascism. Also he was a member of the top faction of the American Youth
Congress that was organized around 1934.
   IMr. KuNziG. You knew him then as one of the leading members of the Young
Communist League?
   Mv. Patterson. Yes.
   Mr. KuNziQ. I hand you a document marked "Patterson Exhibit No. 1" for
identitication. I am very carefully holding my hand over any names mentioned
and in passing you this document marked "Exhibit No. 1" for identification
I show you a picture and ask you if you recognize that person?
  Mr. Patterson. Yes.
  Mr. KuNziG. Who is that?
   Mr. PATTERSON. That is the McMichael as I recognized in the Young Commu-
nist League together with me from 1931 until I went out in 1935.
  Mr. KuNZiG. Let the record show, Mr. Chairman, that the witness has iden-
tified a document which is a photostatic copy of an article from the New York
World Telegram, September 15, 1951, headlined "Controversial Federation Re-
tains Methodist in Name."
   "Body Reelects Reverend McMichael," and then there is a picture under which
appears the name of Reverend McMichael.
  On the basis of this testimony, the committee called the Reverend
Jack Richard McMichael, who is presently pastor of the Methodist
Church at Ui^per Lake, Calif. The Reverend McMichael denied that
he had ever been a member of the Communist Party. During the
course of the hearing, the witness was confronted by Manning John-
son and the witness denied knowledge of him.
  The committee also received the testimony of John and Martha
Edmiston who stated that they had met with the Reverend McMichael
during May or June 1940 at the Southern Hotel in Columbus, Ohio,
the occasion being a meeting of the Ohio Youth Congress.
  The Reverend McMichael contended that his diary indicated that
he was not in Columbus, Ohio, during the period of May or June
1940, and he denied that he knew Martha or John Edmiston.
  In view of the conflict in testimony, the committee voted that the
testimony of Manning Johnson, Leonard Patterson, Martha and John
Edmiston, and the Reverend Jack R. McMichael be transmitted to
the Department of Justice for consideration of possible perjury
prosecution.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES          99

                            G.   Bromley Oxnam
  The Reverend G. Bromley Oxnam is Bishop of the Methodist
Church for the Washington, D. C, area. On July 21, 1953, Bishop
Oxnam appeared before the committee as a result of a request by him,
that he be heard. Bishop Oxnam informed the committee that certain
information in the committee's tiles relating to him was in error.
   As in every instance of this kind, where a person feels that there
is erroneous information, or information that might require clarifica-

tion, the committee is pleased to take every reasonable step to
                                                                insure
that the information is corrected or clarified. In fact Bishop Oxnam
had been extended an invitation to appear before the committee as
early as October   1"951.
  The committee believesthat the full record of the hearing afforded
Bishop Oxnam, will now  serve to correct and clarify any erroneous
infonnation that might have been contained in the files relating to
him.
 INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE
            PHILADELPHIA, PA., AREA
  The House Committee on Un-American Activities commenced
hearings in Philadelphia in 1952, which dealt principally with Com-
munist infiltration of vital defense industries in that area. On No-
vember 16 through November 18, 1953, a subcommittee of the Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities resumed hearings in Philadelphia,
dealing exclusively with individuals who are either currently or had
been engaged as school teachers in Philadelphia. As in the case of
other witnesses so called before the committee these teachers had been
identified through investigation as having been members of the Com-
munist Party at one time and possibly having continued their member-
ship until the present time.
  In all there were 19 witnesses who appeared before the committee,
some refused to affirm or deny present or past Communist Party mem-
bership, however, the majority denied present membership while
refusing to answer any questions regarding Communist activities
prior to their signing a loyalty oath as required by Pennsylvania law
in the early months of 1952.
  The committee wishes to point out the obvious fact that the 19
teachers who appeared before the committee is a very small fraction
of the loyal American teachers in Philadelphia, Pa.
  At this point, the appreciation of the committee is extended to both
Dr. Bella V. Dodd and to Dorothy K. Funn for their further testimony,
given in the hearings held in Philadelphia.
  Witnesses heard by the committee in Philadelphia who refused to
affirm or deny allegations of Communist Party membership, or of
participation in activities promoted by the Communist conspiracy            :




                                                        Identified hy
Anton, Benjamin David                     Testimony identifying Mr. Anton as a
  Principal, Baldwin Public School.         member of the Communist Party has
        (Appeared Nov. 17 and 18, 1953;     not been   made   public,
       refused to affirm or deny Commu-
       nist Party membership.)

  Teuf'lier, Clara Barton Elementary        as a member of the Communist Party
    School.                                 has not been   made   public.
      (Appeared Nov. 17, 1953 refused
                              ;


      to aflBrm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Beilan,   Herman                          Testimony identifying Mr. Beilan as a
  Teacher, Grant High School.               member of the Communist Party has
       (Appeared Nov. 18, 1953; testi-      not been   made   public,
      tied he is not now a member of
      the Communist Party, but re-
      fused to affirm or deny past mem-
      bership.)

      100
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                                         ACTIVITIES 101

                                                                               Identified by
Deaoon. Thomas                                                 Testimony identifying Mr. Deacon as a
  Counselor,          Sulzberger         Junior       High       member of the Communist Party has
    School.                                                      not been made public.
         (Appeared Nov.      1953; testi-
                                     18,
         fied   he    is          now
                            a member of
                            not
         the Communist Party, but refused
         to affirm or deny past member-
         ship.)
Elfont, Sophia                                                 Testimony identifying Miss      Ell'out as   a
  English Department, Stetson Junior                             member     of the   Communist Party has
    High School.                                                 not been   made     public.
         (Appeared Nov.              17,   lOoS   ;   testi-
         fiedshe is not now a member of
         the Communist Party, but re-
         fused to affirm or deny past mem-
         bership.)
Fruit,   Harry                                                 Testimony identifying Mr. Fruit as a
  Mathematics teacher, Gerniantown                               member of the (Communist Party has
    Hish School.                                                 not been    made    public.
      (Appeared Nov. 16, 1053: testi-
         fied he is not now a member of
         the Communist Party, but re-
         fused to affirm or deny past mem-
         bership.)
Haas, Solomon                                                  Testimony identifying Mr. Haas as a
  Teacher, Hunter Elementary School.                             member of the Communist Party has
       (Appeared Nov. 18, 1953; testi-                           not been made public.
      fied he is not now a member of
      the Communist Party, but re-
      fused to affirm or deny past mem-
       bership.)
Ivens. Louis                                                   Testimony identifying Mr. Ivens as a
  Teacher, Stetson Junior Hisrh School.                          member of the (jommunist Party has
       (Appeared Nov. 16, 1853; testi-                           not been   made     public.
      fied be is not now a member of
      the Communist Party, but re-
      fused to affirm or deny past mem-
         bership.)
Kaplan, Samuel Meyer                                           Thomas Delaney,   Oct. 13, 1952. Other
  Teacher. John Bartram Hish School.                             testimony identifying Mr. Kaplan as
       (Appeared Nov. 16, 1953; testi-                           a member of the Communist Party
      fied he is not now a member of                             has not been made public.
      the Communist Party, but re-
      fused to affirm or deny past mem-
      bership). (Mr. Delaney testified
      that Mr. Kaplan and his wife
      Ruth were expelled from the
      Communist Party late 1950.)
Lawrence, Bill. (See section of this re-
    port regarding hearings held in
    New     Torli City.)
Lowenfels, Lillian (Mrs. Walter Low-                           Testimony identifying Mrs. Lowenfeb
    eufels)                                                      as a member of the Communist Party
  Former teacher.                                                has not been made public.
         (Appeared Nov.              16,      1953;   testi-
         fied   she    isnow a member of
                            not
         the Communist Party, but re-
         fused to affirm or deny past mem-
      bership. )
Margolis, Adele              (Mrs.      Nathan Mar- Testimony identifying Mrs. Margolis
    golis)                                            as a member of the Communist Party
  Former        teacher.                                         has not been made public
         (Appeared            Nov.      17,    1953;     re-
         fused to affirm or deny                 Commu-
         nist   Party membership.)
102 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                            Identified by
Margolis, Nathan Walter                                     Testimony identifying Mr. Margolis as
  Teacher, John Bartram High School.                          a member of the Communist Party has
        (Appeared Nov. 17, 1953; re-                          not been    made   public.
       fused to affirm or deny Commu-
       nist Party membership.)
Perloff, Caroline (Mrs. David PerlofE)                      Testimony identifying Mrs. Perloff as a
  Counselor, Ferguson School.                                 member of the Communist Party has
        (Appeared Nov. 17, 1953; re-                          not been   made    public.
       fused to affirm or deny Commu-
       nist Party membership.)
Perloff,     David                                          Testimony identifying Mr. Perloff as a
  Teacher,        Abraham           Lincoln        High       member of the Communist Party has
    School.                                                   not been made public.
         (Appeared Nov. 17, 1953; re-
         fused to affirm or deny Commu-
         nist   Party membership.)
Reivich. Isadore                                            Testimony identifying Mr. Reivich as a
  Teacher,       West           Philadelphia       High       member of the Communist Party has
    School.                                                   not been made public.
         (Appeared Nov. 17, 1953; testi-
         fiedhe is not now a member of
         the Communist Party, but re-
         fused to affirm or deny past mem-
         bership.)
Rutman, Robert             J.                               Testimony identifying Mr. Rutman as a
  Employed, Jefferson Medical College.                        member of the Communist Party has
      (Appeared Nov. 18, 1953; testi-                         not been    made    public.
      fied he is not nov? a member of
         the Communist Party, but re-
         fused to affirm or deny past
         membership.)
Soler, Esther (Mrs.             William Soler)              Testimony identifying Mrs. Soler as a
  Teacher, William B. Mann School.                            member of the Communist Party has
       (Appeared Nov. 17, 1953; testi-                        not been    made    public.
      fied she is not now a member of
      the Communist Party, but re-
      fused to affirm or deny past mem-
         bership.)
Soler,   William Gordon                                     Testimony identifying Mr. Soler as a
  Teacher, Central High SchooL                                member of the Communist Party has
       (Appeared Nov. 17, 1953; re-                           not been made public.
      fused to affirm or deny Commu-
         nist   Party membership.)
Thomas, Estelle Naomi                                       Testimony identifying Miss Thomas as
  Teacher, Bache School.                                      a member of the Communist Party
       Appeared Nov. 16, 1953
         (                                     ;   testi-     has not been made public.
         fied   she   is   not   now
                              a member of
         the Communist Party, but re-
         fused to affirm or deny past mem-
         bership.)
Wepman, Mrs. Sarah Walsh                                    Testimony identifying Mrs.           Wepman   as
  Former teacher.                                             a   member    of the     Communist Party
         (Appeared Nov. 16, 1953; re-                         lias   not been   made   public.
         fused to affirm or deny Commu-
         nist Party membership.)
INVESTIGATION OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE
             SAN FKANCISCO AREA
  The investigations conducted by the House Committee on Un-Amer-
ican Activities in California during the past few years have revealed
a strong concentration of Communist efforts to infiltrate the northern
California area, particularly that of the San Francisco and Oakland
Bay region. With these facts in mind, the committee held hearings in
San Francisco, Calif., during the first week in December 1953.
  The first witness to appear before the committee w^as Louis Rosser,
who had been a member of the Communist Party or the Young Com-
munist League from 1932 until December 1944. Mr. Rosser, as is
Mrs. Dorothy K. Funn, who previously       testified in New York City,
is  a Negro who had joined the Communist Party for much the same
 reasons as had Mrs. Funn. During the early 1930's, he became con-
 vinced that the Communist Party was working actively and sincerely
 for the betterment of social and economic conditions for the Ameri-
can Negro. He testified that he subsequently realized that the Com-
 munist Party was using the Negro issue in the United States for its
selfish aims.   He related how, during the period of the 1930's when
it seemed likely that there would be a war between the democracies
and Germany or possibly a war which would be directed against the
 Soviet Union, the Communist Party in the United States fomented
 discontent and agitated for open rebellion by the Negro people in the
United States. He stated that, however, when it appeared that the
 Soviet Union was endangered by the attack of Hitler's forces, this
propaganda was altered and the Negro people encouraged to cooperate
fully with other races and nationalities in an all-out effort to give
support and comfort to the Soviet Union.
   Mr. Rosser described to the committee the instructions which he
liacl received concerning the world situation in the 1930's, stating that
the Communist Party line then was that if there was a war between
the "capitalistic" countries, it would be an "imperialist" war, and
the Communist Party must have the American people prepared to
turn such a war into a civil war. However, if there was to be a war
against the "workers' fatherland," the Soviet Union, the American
Communist Party must have the leadership of the American people
and must lead them to turn their guns against their own Government
and thwart any attempt by the American Government to destroy the
Soviet Union. Rosser's disillusionment came gradually over a long
period of time when he realized that the Communist Party had no
sincere interest in the American Negro other than to exploit him, and
in 1944 made a public break with the Communist Party.            Rosser's
experience following his break with the Communist Party once again
serves to strengthen the committee's knowledge concerning the black-
listing methods used by the Communist Party against anyone who
is not a Communist, or particularly against anyone who has had the

                                                                103
104 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

courage to break away from the Communist Party. Rosser explained
how, following his break with the Communist Party, he had returned
to the normal pursuits which he had cast away out of necessity by
being a member of the Communist Party, and had obtained employ-
ment as a porter in a bowling alley. Rosser stated that when the
Communist Party learned of this it sent a delegation to the proprietor
of the bowling alley and exerted sufficient pressure on his employer
to cause him to lose even this minor position.  Subsequently, when he
was able to obtain a position as labor secretary of the National Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Colored People, a Communist faction
within that group which had been unsuccessful in having him fired or
removed went to the extent of having the funds with which he was
being paid blocked.
  The committee is indeed indebted to Mr. Rosser for the volume of
valuable information he made available to it.
  During testimony given the committee in 1948, Miss Elizabeth T.
Bentley testified that a person who had been a member of a Commu-
nist unit within the United States Government, and had furnished
her material which she relayed as a Soviet courier to higher Soviet
agents, was one Donald Niven Wheeler. Mr. Wheeler, who presently
resides in Oregon, was called before the subcommittee in San Fran-
cisco on December 1, 1953, in order that he might furnish the com-
mittee with the information he possessed or deny the testimony previ-
ously given regarding his espionage activities. Mr. Wheeler, as have
the majority of the other members of this Communist cell, refused to
affirm or deny Communist Party membership or the activities previ-
ously alleged, on the basis that to do so miglit tend to incriminate him.
  The committee also called two persons w^ho, had they desired, could
have furnished the committee with some of the most valuable informa-
tion yet available concerning Communist Party activities, because of
the position of prominence they had attained in the Communist Party.
One was Roy Hudson, who had been a member of the national com-
mittee, as well as a member of the political bureau of the Communist
Party. In 1944, Hudson was the vice president of the Communist
Political Association.   The other person was Harrison George, who
in 1933 was a member of the central committee, and in 1939 a member
of the national committee of the Communist Party. In addition to
being a speaker at the 10th National Convention of the Communist
Party, he was a member of the staff of the Daily W^orker in 1937,
editor of the People's World from 1938 through 1944, and a former
brother-in-law of Earl Browder.
  Roy Hudson was presented a photostatic copy of a typewritten letter
over the signature of "Hudson" bearing date the 8th day of February
1934, and addressed to H. Jackson, who had been identified by Lou
Rosser as having been a member of the Communist Party and west-
coast organizer of the Marine Workers Industrial Union, of which
latter organization Roy Hudson was national secretary at the time.
Hudson refused to identify the signature as his on the ground that to
do so might tend to incriminate him. The letter severely upbraided
Jackson for his objection to the action of the Politbureau of the Com-
munist Party in giving George Mink a temporary leave of absence
from his duties on the west coast and his assignment to a special
mission. The letter referred to the fact that a person by the name of
     ANNUAL REPORT,     COIVIMITTEE   ON QN-AJVIERICAN ACTIVITIES 105

"Ray" had insisted upon giving the assignment to Mink. Thomas
Kay was secretary of the Marine Workers Industrial Union at that
time. This letter, referring to the mission of Mink, was written a
short time prior to the shipping strike on the west coast in 1934.
  As reported in the press, that subsequently, in July 1935, George
Mink was sent to prison by a court in Copenhagen, Denmark, for
Soviet espionage. Roy Hudson refused to testify as to whether or
not George Mink was given a temporary leave from his activities in
connection with the seamen's strike on the west coast and was sent
to the continent of Europe on a mission for the Communist Party in
connection with that strike on the rounds that his answer might tend
to incriminate him.    Thus the effort of the committee to ascertain
whether George Mink played the same role as that played by Patrick
Walsh of the Canadian Seamen's Union in seeking support of Com-
munist dock workers in European ports, was temporarily thwarted.
   In order to obtain further light on the international aspect of
Communist Party activities in the United States, the witness Harrison
George was questioned regarding certain propaganda activities which
he directed, and in which he participated on the west coast from 1933
to 1935.
  Anne Kinney,   a former member-at-large of the Communist Party,
                            on December 22, 1952, that she was given
testified in executive session
a special party assignment to work for Harrison George, who was
engaged in publishing a trade-union paper designed for circulation
in Japan.   Her function was limited to that of a "mail drop". She
                                                   of the propaganda
possessed no knowledge of the character or purpose
activities aimed at Japan.
  During the hearing in San Francisco, the testimony of Joe Koide,
a Japanese national and a former member of the Communist Party
of the United States was taken. This witness testified that when
Earl Browder came back from the Orient, he was interested in meeting
orientals.   This resulted in an offer from Earl Browder to send the
witness to Moscow for a 3-month training course. He accepted the
offer and remained in Moscow for about 1 year.   As the witness was a
Japanese national, a question arose as to whether he should be re-
turned to the United States from Moscow, and the witness proposed
to those in charge in Moscow that there was a job that should be done
and could be done in the United States in connection with propa-
ganda aimed toward Japan. He was returned to the United States
to engage in that enterprise.
   Joe Koide testified that for a period of 18 months, beginning in the
fall of 1933, he and Harrison George engaged on the west coast in
the editing, publishing, and printing of a magazine in the Japanese
language, the title of which was Pacific Worker. This magazine, he
testified, bore the notation "Organ of the Pan-Pacific Trade Union
Secretariat.''  The witness assumed that the funds for the publishing
of the official organ of the Pan-Pacific Secretariat came from
           —
"RILU Red International of Labor Unions, otherwise known as
Pruliiiteiii." The magazine, he testified, was mainly concerned with
an analysis of the economic conditions in Japan under military rule,
and articles dealing with how to improve conditions in the shops,
factories, and farms. In addition to Harrison George's share in the
division of labor in and about the editing, publishing, and printing
      47400—54    S
106 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

of this magazine, Harrison George contributed between 2 and 3 dozen
articles to   it.
   In answer to the question as to whether the witness' work was cen-
sored or edited in any way by Communist Party members on a higher
level, the witness answered that it was and gave as one example an
instance in which Tanaka, a Japanese representative of the Profintern,
had severely criticized an article which had been published in the
magazine, and gave peremptory directions that a manuscript prepared
by him, Tanaka, should be printed in the magazine in toto, without any
editing or abridging, which was done.
   In establishing this link in the international conspiracy, it would
be well to recall the testimony given by Maj. Gen. Charles E.
Willoughby before this committee on August 22 and 23, 1951, relating
to the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat, which is usually referred
to as the PPTUS. General Willoughby, Chief Intelligence Officer of
the United States Army operating directly under General Douglas
MacArthur, testified as follows    :



  The Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat and     its   parent organization the
Shanghai branch of the far eastern Bureau, were the most important and highly
organized apparatus for Comintern labor activities in the Far East during the
late 1920's and the early 1930's.    The PPTUS set up in 1927 a conference in
Hankow which was attended by several prominent Comintern leaders, including
Lozovsky, a Comintern agent who rose from secretary of the Profintern in 1928
to a transient position as leader of the Soviet labor movement. Another member
of the Hankow conference who later became first head of the PPTUS was the
American Communist, Earl Browder, who was assisted in his work in Shanghai
by an American woman, Katherine Harrison. Other Americans, including a
journalist, James H. Dolsen one Albert Edward Stewart, and Margaret Undjus,
                           ;


were prominent in the affairs of the PPTUS, as was the German woman, Irene
Weidemeyer.
   Harrison George, had he chosen, could have furnished the committee
with first-hand information regarding this aspect of the international
conspiracy of the Communist Party in the United States. He chose,
however, to refuse to furnish the committee any information on the
ground that to do so might tend to incriminate him.
   The committee did receive valuable testimony from Dickson P. Hill
who had operated as an undercover agent for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in the Communist Party from April 1945 until the fall
of 1949. Mr. Hill furnished the committee with the information he
had acquired in this position which was particularly valuable since
he was for a period of time membership director of a Communist
Party branch in Oakland, Calif.
   Another witness to testify before the subcommittee in San Fran-
cisco, who had also been an undercover operator for the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, in its investigation of the Communist Party was
William Donald Ames. Mr. Ames testified that he had joined the
Communist Party after first having offered his services to the FBI
in 1946 and had continued to report information to that agency until
1950. Mr. Ames also had been a membership director of the Commu-
nist Party group to which he was assigned and, as a result, was in a
position to furnish the committee with very valuable testimony con-
cerning the individuals whom he knew to be members of the Commu-
nist Party in the San Francisco-Oakland area.
   As has been indicated in other sections of this report, the committee
is particularly concerned with the success of efforts which the Com-
         AISTNUAL REPORT,          COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 107

 muiiist Party has exerted to gain a foothold in the waterfront and
 maritime industries of the United States. The committee received
 testimony from James Kendall concerning these efforts and the de-
 gree of success which had been achieved hj the Communist Party.
Mr. Kendall testified that he had been a member of the Communist
Party from April 1942 until about 1948, although he considered that
he had broken away from the Communist Party as early as 1946.
Mr. Kendall, who was a seaman by trade, testified that after he had first
become a member of the Communist Party he gained employment as
a seaman aboard a troopship, the steamship Arthur Middleton, which
was under charter to the United States Navy, and that, out of the
crew of possibly 125 to 200 individuals, 25 on that particular trip were
members of the Communist Party. Mr. Kendall also related to the
committee other instances in which he was assigned to vessels upon
which there were Communist Party members, in addition to himself.
Mr. Kendall also furnished detailed information relating to the in-
fluence exercised by tlie Communist Party on the various maritime
and waterfront unions.
   The subcommittee also received the testimony of Charles David
Blodgett who, on the basis of his experiences in the Communist Party
and the Young Communist League and the excellence of the presenta-
tion of his testimony, proved to be one of the most informative wit-
nesses the committee had the opportunity of hearing during 1953. Of
particular interest in Mr. Blodgett's testimony was the fact that he
had been a member of the Young Communist League from approxi-
mately August 1941 until July 1943. Mr. Blodgett testified that he
had not only become a member of the Young Communist League while
a student at Carleton College in Minnesota, but had been active in
organizing a Young Communist League cell on the campus of that
college. Mr. Blodgett's summary of his experiences is deemed to be
of sufficient importance in the study of subversive activities that the
committee is setting forth herewith the statement furnished by Mr.
Blodgett        :




                     Statement op Charles David Blodgett
                I decided to leave the Communist Party in the late summer of
     Mr. Blodgett.
1949.  actually left the Communist Party when I left California in January of
         I
1950. The reasons for my disaffection from the Communist Party are many.
There was no single flash of disaffection. It was a cumulative thing over the
3% years, approximately, that I became acquainted with the Communist Party
in action.
  When I first joined the Communist Party in 1943, I was a Communist by
intellectual conviction. I was convinced that the Communist Party was the last
and best hope for the world it was the answer to all of the problems confronting
                                   ;



society that it was the vanguard party of history that its philosophy was with-
            ;                                                ;


out a loophole; that its methodology and historical perspective raised it above
anything that had previously been developed by the mind of man.
  I had a very romantic notion about the coming of this great millenium, the
                                              —
paradise on earth, heaven on earth that is the promise of communism to
                           —                                     —
the potential recruit end of all war and poverty end of man's inhumanity
to   man.
  This is the promise that was held out to the recruit, and as I say, I was a Com-
munist because I read books and studied, and I was convinced intellectually.
However, I was not a Communist by practice until after the war, until I joined
the party in California. Then I found out that the practice of the party was
antithetical to the promise that it held out to the future it could not indeed
                                                                     ;

achieve that, that    it   was   in practice the opposite.
108 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   I related briefly in previous testimony some of the problems that were con-
fronting me as a reporter for the Daily Peoples World, problems that went deep
into the question of personal integrity and honesty.      It did not talie long for
this disillusionment to set in. It did take me a while to get out because the party
does have a very strong hold on its people. The party will tell members, espe-
cially someone who has been an open member, that they cannot escape from the
party, that society will not accept them again as a respectable member of
society.
  I have put down some of my thoughts on paper on this whole general subject,
Mr. Counsel. I know that it is not the policy of the committee to allow state-
ments to be read, but that statement in writing that I have prepared pretty well
covers the whole story of my leaving the party and my feeling about the party
today.
     The question                  —
                       of loyalty^ this doesn't bother a Communist because loyalty
is   equated in class      ;class structure is based on           You are loyal to
                                                           Marxism.
the working class,         which becomes the group assigning the Communist theory.
He cannot be loyal to an entity such as America or the United States and its
Government and still be a good Communist. The two are mutually exclusive
under the setup which the Communist himself will acknowledge, based on their
theory that governments are instituted for domination of one class over another.
  In the Soviet Union the working class, according to the Communist, has a
power. "My loyalty is to the working class first, and then my loyalty must
                               —
be to the Soviet Union this is the worker's motherland."
  The Communists do not face this question squarely. They refuse to. They
rationalize it. They say. "We are loyal to the best interests of the American
people," although the American people seem to have a rather basic disagree-
ment with that. But ultimately that is the only truth that the Communists
themselves have they must acknowledge it loyalty is loyalty to class. The
                       ;                           ;


working class has taken power in the Soviet Union loyalty is first to the
                                                              ;


Soviet Union. America is under the control of the capitalist class, and it
follows from their own theory that they cannot be a Communist and also be
loyal Americans.
     Atheism   —
             I think this waS the starting point as far as I was concerned, my
own   personal experience, that had to do with the commission of the main sin
                                                       —
that any of us commit, those of Christian faith sin of pride, the feeling that
man can be sufBcieut unto himself, that he can do without a Supreme Being,
that in fact a Supreme Being does not exist. This is not only the road to
communism; this is the road to all secularisms, of denying the existence of
God and the subsequent desecration, moral debasement, that must ensue.
  This is our hope and our salvation. I mean this very strongly. I once re-
jected a God that I did not know, and I rejected a church that I knew nothing
about because I had only immature understanding of God and the church. I
have corrected this. And secularism, no matter what its form, will lead to
communism. Atheism is one of the things, the stumbling blocks, that helped
propel me out of the party.
  There are many, many other reasons that I could go on and spend hours
and hours and point by point, example by example, on why it became so
apparent that I could not stay in the Communist Party, no matter what the
consequence would be; I would have to get out. I could not live, I could not
raise my family. I certainly could not maintain a family.
  Actually I was told by the Communists when they had an indication that
I was leaving      —
                 my first step was to resign from the Daily People's World in
October of 1949. I was told I was not open-faced, that it was not completely
honest with the Communists. I did not tell them the reason I was leaving,
and I was leaving California to lu-eak all my ties with communism. They
blamed it on my wife and told me I should divorce my wife, that the party
comes first, and that is another ba'sic principle of communism, that the party
is first; the party is worshiped.                                 —
                                     They don't have gods a God; they don't
believe in God.   They are atheists, but they do make a substitute god of the
party, make a substitute parent of the party, a slavish insubordination to this
concept of the partyist worship.
  Although they do not believe in the Great Man theory of history, they do
worship Joseph Stalin and worship Lenin; its aihilation is something that is
completely foreign to the basic spiritual foundation of our country.
   I don't know if that begins to answer.     I left the party, as I say, when I
left California.  I actually took a transfer with me in the form of a $1 bill
with a serial number on it. That was the method of transferring at the time.
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                     ACTIVITIES 109

 I   never used that transfer, and I reestablished my life in Chicago and am
  trying to start over again, and I found that the main hold that the party has
 on people is absolutely groundless. This is more true day after day, that
 employers are not vindictive. They are not punishing people because they have
 left the party and renounced their former beliefs and associates.      I found that
  this committee, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are not what the party
 pictures them to be, and I hope, I hope from the very depths of my being that
 others can see their way clear to recognize that they cannot build a life in the
 Communist Party, the kind of life that means anything but sordidness and chil-
 dren who are distorted, who are abused, children who are destined to lead un-
 happy lives, and I plead with those of my former associates whom I have abso-
 lutely no hatred for
                     —  1 have no antipathy at all, except for what they stand for
 and what they are doing.
    They can follow, and they can get out, and there is no reason why they shouldn't,
 absolutely none whatsoever, and there are so many reasons why they should, so
 many reasons.
    I don't know if there are other —  there are many, many things that could be
 said on this subject, and I don't want to bore the committee. I would very
                                                         —
strongly urge that the committee recognize something I don't want to be pre-
sumptuous about this I don't want you to think that I am being a smart aleck
                       ;


 to tell the committee what it should or shouldn't do, but this is not just a
criminal conspiracy of people these are people who are committed they are
                                ;                                        ;



people who have a religion, a belief that they are doing things on the basis of
those beliefs, and ideas and beliefs are the well springs of movements historically.
    You can't defeat them before a congressional committee. You can't defeat
them in courts of law. You can't defeat them in jails. The hard core Com-
munists who feed on a diet of underground activities and jails and courts become
hardened persons. You will find reading Marxist theory and reading Lenin, that
he says you cannot have a successful prorevolutionary leader unless they have
gone through this sort of thing, being steeled by struggle.
    Being anti-Communist is not enough. We have to be for something, and we
cannot fall into the trap of secularism because this, to me, is the basis of the
whole problem, and its start in childhood. The point of greatest importance
in the development of a person is the high school and college level.         I don't
have statistics, but I am sure that most recruiting is done at the college level,
and who is recruited? That young person who has developed a social conscience      ;


the Communists are looking for people like that. That youag person who is
serious minded, who is interested in the problems of the world and doing some-
                 —
thing about them they are the material that the Communists take and develop.
The skillful Communist recruiter can make such a picture for this person of this
glittering future, he can show them, after he has gotten them receptive, that
the people of the Soviet Union and China are marching toward this glorious
future. He can do all these things with those receptive minds, and if those young
people do not have a firm foundation of belief in God and their church, the
Communists will succeed with those people.
                                                               —
    There are none of my acquaintances at Carleton College and the story of
                                             —
Carleton College is a very interesting one- there are none of my acquaintances
who evidenced the same type of social conscience and perplexity about life and
the meaning of life and a wish to do something about it to create this better
        —
world but there were none of those people who had a sure belief in God and
tied themselves to the church who were recruited by us. We could not recruit
them.
   We have to make that first step, and the committee can't do this. They can
provide the material, case studies; they can synthesize it and analyze it and
summarize it in such a form that could be really useful to college presidents, ad-
ministrators, and high school principals. Give them the kind of material that
will make them realize that this natural radicalism of youth, these natural
yearnings and urges, must be channeled properly or the Communists will take
those young people, and we will never defeat them by being anti-Communist
because young people, as you know, are rejecting an adult world, are not af-
fected by prohibitions.  Prohibition did not stop alcoholism prohibitions will
                                                                ;

not stop young people from entertaining these ideas that are the opposite of the
adult world. The committee can do this they can do it with other organizations.
                                         ;

I know they have been I know they have been doing it with labor.
                           ;                                            They can
tell them how to spot these people, to stop them from their
                                                             recruiting activities.
The Communists will have to renew their membership; they have to get new
110 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AIMERICAN ACTIVITIES

recruits.     This   is       a necessity, and that    is   where   to cut theru off   ;   that   is   where       to
cut them      off.
    As you can tell, I think, from my testimony, I feel very strongly on                               this,   and
I   want to enlist myself when and wherever 1 can in this fight.
  The complete and revealing testimony of the following individuals
who contributed their knowledge to the hearings of the committee
in the San Francisco area was a great factor in the success of these
hearings.  For their having given this testimony, the committee
wishes to express               its   utmost appreciation.
                                                                         Date of appearance
Ames, William Donald                                        Dec. 4, 1953.
Berkeley, Martin                                            Apr. 29, 1953.    (Mr. Berkeley appeared
                                                              in executive session, and this testi-
                                                              mony has not been made public.)
Blodgett, Charles David                                     Dec. 3, 1953.
Bradsher, Mary Elizabeth Parrott                            Nov. 2, 1953.      (Mary Bradsher fur-
                                                              nished the committee with a sworn
                                                              deposition in which she testified fully
                                                              as to her former membership in the
                                                              Communist Party. A portion of this
                                                              deposition has been made public.)
Grover, Bertha                                              Nov. 18, 1953.       (Bertha Grover ap-
                                                              peared in executive session and testi-
                                                              fied fully as to her activities as an
                                                              FBI undercover agent in the Com-
                                                              munist Party. A portion of this testi-
                                                              mony has been made public.)
Hill,   Dickson      P                                      Dec. 2, 1953.
Kendall, James                                              Dec. 5, 1953.
Koide, Joe                                                  Dec. 3, 1953.    (Mr. Koide appeared in
                                                              executive session and testified fully
                                                              as to his former membership in the
                                                              Communist Party. A portion of this
                                                              testimony has been made public.)
Rosser,      Lou                                            Dec. 1, 19.53.
Seymour, Ernest Leroy                                       Nov. 6 and 22, 1953.        (Mr. Seymour
                                                              appeared in executive session and
                                                              testified fully as to his former mem-
                                                              bership in the Communist Party. A
                                                              portion of his testimony of November
                                                              22 has been made public. )
    The following persons were                 identified as        members of the Communist
Party during the course of hearings held in                           San Francisco, Calif.                    :



                                                                           Identified hy
Alexander, Herschel                                         Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  East Bay director of Civil Rights Con-                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    gress (Oakland, Calif.).                                William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Anderson, Bruce                                             Mary E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
  Sacramento.
Attarian,     Aram                                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.        3,   1953.
    Resident of Hayward, Calif. ; em-
      ployed in Oakland.
        (Appeared Dec. 4, 1953; refused
        to affirm or deny                Communist
        Party membership.)
Attarian, Sally (Mrs.             Aram    Attarian)         Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.        3,   1953.
Augustine, Elizabeth.                 (See Elizabeth
    McMuUen.)
Austin, Kenneth Craig                                       Identified in Federal court testimony in
    Longshoreman          ;   San Francisco.                  California, Apr. 1, 1952.
        (Appeared Dec. 2, 1953; refused
        to affirm or deny Communist
        Party niembership.)
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES                                               111


                                                                            Identified by
Ayeroff, Joe                                                 Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Unemployed west coast coordinator
                          ;


    of Communist Party waterfront
        branches, 1946.
          (Appeared Dec.           5,   1953   :   refused
         to   affirm deny     or          Communist
       Party membership.)
Bailey, William J.                                           James Kendall, Dec.     5, 1953.
Baker, Rudy                                                  Joe Koide, Dec.   3,1953.
Baker, Donald                                                Lou   Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  Member, Communist Party                      fraction,
  Longshoreman's Union.
  Active in Japanese language publica-
    tion   "International Correspond-
    ence," 1935.
Barlow, Edward                                               Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  San Francisco.                                             Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Barlow, Elizabetb (Mrs. Edward Bar-                          Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
    low)                                                     William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
  San Francisco.                                             Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Barnes, Carroll                                              Dickson P. Hill. Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland secretary of Alameda Coun-
                  ;
                                                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    ty Communist Party.
       (Appeared Dec. 4, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Baron, Lou                             Lou Rosser, Dec. i, 1953.
   Communist Party functionary.
        (See also Section on hearings
       held in Los Angeles.)
Baroway, Leo                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3. 1953.
   Circulation manager, Daily People's William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
     World.
        {See also Section on hearings
       held in Los Angeles.)
Batiste, Calvin                        Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
  Member, Southwest Berkeley group of
    Communist Party.
Benet, James Walker, II                                      Martin Berkeley, Apr.     29, 1953.
  Employee of San Francisco Chron-
    icle.
         (Appeared Dec. 4, 1953; denied
         present Communist Party mem-
         bership but refused to affirm or
         deny past membership.)
Bick, Barbara                       Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.                                3,   1953.
  Berkeley librarian for Daily Peo-
                  ;



    ple's World.
Bittman, John                       Charles D. Blodgett, Dee.                                3,   1953.
  Oakland international representative
              ;


    for United Electrical, Radio & Ma-
    chine Workers of America.
Black, Elaine                                                Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Instructor, San Francisco                    Workers
    School.
Black, Gladys (Mrs. Robert                         Black),   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.       3,   1953.
  Oakland.                                                   Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
                                                             William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Black, Robert                                                Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Printer; Oakland.                                          Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
       (Appeared Dec. 4, 1953; refused                       William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
       to affirm or deny Communist
         Party membership.)
Blacklock, Charles                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.       3,   1953.
  Electrician city of Alameda.
                      ;
112 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                    Identified by
Bodkin, Wesley                           Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Warehouseman functionary of Ala- Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
                          ;

     meda County Communist Party.        William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Bowen, Mildred                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Oakland.
        (Appeared  Dec. 4, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
        Party membership.)
Boykin, Ernest                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Bethlehem Shipyards employee; resi-
     dent, city of Alameda.
Brandt, Carl                             Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  Communist Party organizer within
     electrical workers union.
Bratoff, George                          Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Proprietor of store in Oakland.
Bridges,   Harry                                  James Kendall, Dec.         5,    1953.        (Identi-
  ILWU      president.                              fiedby witness as attending a closed
                                                    meeting of Communist Party leaders
                                                    within waterfront unions along the
                                                    Pacific coast.)
                                                  Also identified by a former Communist
                                                    in 1952 and a former Communist in
                                                    1951.
Brown. Al                                         Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.             3,   1953.
  Resident of city of Alameda        em-      ;


    ployee, Bethlehem Shipyards.
       (Witness testified that Mr. Brown
      withdrew from the Communist
      Party.)
Brown, Archie                                     Lou Rosser, Dec.      1, 19.53.
  Member     of longshoremen's union;             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    California State official of Commu-           Ernest L. Seymour, Nov. 22, 1953.
    nist Party.
       (.^'e also Section on hearings
      held in     New         York   City.)
Brown, Bimbo                                      Dickson P.      Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Berkeley   ;   believed to be a warehouse-      Mary     E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
   man.
Brown, Cleophas                                   William D. Ames, Dec.            4,   1953.
  Official of     Contra Costa Communist          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.             3,1953.
    Party.
Brown, Tom
  Longshoreman Los Angeles.
                      ;                           Lou Rosser, Dec.      1,   1953.
Brudney, Goodman
  Formerly with CIO public workers;               Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.             3,   1953.
    Alameda County.
Bryson,    Hugh
  Marine cooks and stewards union.                Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
Burford, .Jim                                     James Kendall, Dec. 5, 1953.
Burris, Jack                                      Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
 Hayward.        Calif.                           Dickson P. Hill, Dec.       2,   1953.
Busk, Charlie                                     Bertha Grover, Nov.         18, 1953.
  Oakland.
Calloway, Marie                                   Bertha Grover, Nov.         18, 1953.
  Member, Southwest Berkeley group of
    Communist Party.
Calloway, Warner                                  Bertha Grover, Nov.         18, 1953.
  Member, Southwest Berkeley group
    of Communist Party.
Cameron, Don                       Ernest                   L.   Seymour, Nov.      22, 1953.
  Seaman
Campbell, Will                                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.             3,   1953.
  Member, Encinal Club of Communist
    Party, city of Alameda.
           ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 113
                                                                   Identified by
Canrlght, Marjorie (Mrs.           Norman Can- Charles        D. Blodgett, Dec.      3,       1953.
      right)
  A   librarian for Daily People's World.
Canright,     Norman                                Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.            3,    1953.
  Feature editor, Daily People's World.
Capelle, Frauces (Mrs. Roger Capeile)               Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
  Membership director, Bast Oakland                 Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
      section of       Communist Party.             William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Capelle,    Roger                                   Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.                                          Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Carson. Jules                                       Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Teacher, California             Labor   School,
      1946.
Cayton, Revels                                      Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Marine cooks and stewards union.
    (See also Section on hearings held
      in   New York      City.)
Charles,     Andy                                   Lou Rosser, Dec.    1, 1953.   (Witness
  Active in Los Angeles area in 1930's.               identified Mr. Charles as a member
                                                      of the Young Communist League.)
Chasson, Bob                                        Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.      (Witness
  Active in Los Angeles area in 1930's.               identified Mr. Chasson as a member
                                                      of the Young Communist League.)
Chown, Miriam     (Mrs. Paul Chown)                 Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Housewife; Oakland.
Chown, Paul                              Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Field organizer for United Electrical, Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    Radio and Machine Workers of
    America.
       (Appeared Dec. 5, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Claibourne, Ethel          (Mrs.     Sidney Clai-   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.        3,       1953.
      bourne)
  Former member, Encinal Club of
    Communist Party, city of Alameda            ;


    believed now to be in British Co-
    lumbia.
Claibourne, Sidney                                  Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.            3,    1953.
  Former member, Encinal Club of
    Communist Party, city of Alameda            ;

    believed now to be in British Co-
    lumbia.
Cline,     Paul                                     Lou Rosser, Dec    1,   1953.
  Communist Party organizer
           {See also Section on hearings
           held in Los Angeles.)
Clifford, Bill                                      Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Plasterer       ;
                      San Lorenzo.                  William    D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Coe, Lee                                            Charles   D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Labor editor, Daily People's World.               William   D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Cohn, Bob (also known as Bob Cole)                  Lou   Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary
      (See also Section on hearings
      held in Los Angeles.)
Cook, Ernest                                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.             3,    1953.
  Member, Encinal Club of Communist
    Party, city of Alameda.
Corngold, Libby                                     Lou Rosser, Dec.        1,   1953.
  In trade union work in textile In-
      dustry.
114 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                 Identified hy
Corona, Bert                                      Lou Rosser, Dec.        1,   1953.
  Member        of       Communist group within
    warehousemen's union.
Crawford, Matthew (Matt)                          Lou Rosser, Dec.        1,   1953.
  California State official of Commu-
    nist Party.
Creque, Rosalie (Mrs. William Creque)             Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Housewife Oakland. ;



Creque, William                                   Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.
Criley, Dick                                      Lou Rosser. Dec. 1, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary.                    Also identified by a former Communist
                                                    in 1952.
Crockett, Bill                                    William D. Ames, Dec.              4,    1953.
  Landscape gardener            ;   Oakland.
Crockett, Rosalie                                 William D. Ames, Dec.              4,    1953.
  Oakland.
Crowe, Neil                                       Ernest L. Seymour, Nov.                22, 1953.
  Agent or patrolman for National                 James Kendall, Dec.          5,    1953.
    Maritime Union, San Pedro, Calif.
Danzig, Bill                                      Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3, 19.53.
  Oakland.
Darcy, Sam                                        Lou Rosser, Dec. 1. 1953.
  Communist Party             organizer.          Joe Koide, Dec. 3, 1953.
                                                  Also identified by a former Communist
                                                    in 1952 and by two former Commu-
                                                    nists in 1951.
Davis, Clarence                                   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,   1953.
  Laborer   ;   city of      Alameda.
Davis, Shelly (Mrs. Clarence Davis)               Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3, 19.53.
  City of Alameda.
Delgado. John                                     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,   1953.
  Truckdriver; Oakland.
       (Appeared Dec. 3, 1953; refused
      to  affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Dickerson, Mrs. Kathleen                          William D. Ames, Dec.             4,    1953.
  Housewife Oakland. ;


Dobbs, Ben                                        Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,       1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
Doyle, Bernadette                                 Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 19,53.
  Communist Party functionary.
Drake, James                          James Kendall, Dec.                       5,   19.53.
  Former San Pedro port agent for Na-
    tional Maritime Union.
Duarte, Charles Alfred "Chili"                    Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,    1953.
  President of Local 6, ILWU resident,  ;

    Oakland.
       ( Appeared, Dec. 4, 19.53 refused    ;


      to  affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Dwinnell, Robert                                  Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3, 1953.
  Member, Encinal Club of Communist
    Party, city of Alameda.
Eagle, Eugene                                     Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Optometrist, San Francisco.
       (Ai)peared Dec. 2, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Eagle, Godine (Mrs.            Eugene Eagle)      Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Housewife.
Edwards, George                                   Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 19.53.
  Chairman, West Oakland section of               Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    Communist Party.                              William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Edises,Bertram                                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953-
  Attorney.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMIMITTEE ON UN-AJVIERICAN ACTIVITIES 115
                                                                     Identified by
Edises, Pele                                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.        3,   1953.
  Artist, Daily People's      World.
Eidenoff, Josephine Woods              Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.
Eisler, Joe                            Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Oakland.                             Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Eisler. Marjorie (Mrs. Joe Eisler)     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Oakland.                             Bertha Grover. Nov. IS, 1953.
Englehart, Mrs. A.                     Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Garment worker, San Francisco.
Fagerhaugh, Ole                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Warehouseman, Oakland.
       (Appeared Dec. 4, 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Fogarty, Doris (Mrs. Pat Fogarty)      Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.
Fox, Ernest                            James Kendall, Dec. 5, 1953
  Merchant seaman.
Franks, Frank                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Member, Encinal Club of Communist
    Party, city of Alameda.
Frederick, George Van                                 Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Draftsman     resident of
                ;                    Sausalito,       Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
    Calif.
       (Appeared Dec. 2, 1953 refused;


       to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Frederick, Jean (Mrs. George Van Fred-                Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov.       2,   1953.
  erick)
Gannett, Betty                                        Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,    1953.
  Communist Party functionary.
       {See also Section on hearings
         held in Los Angeles.)
Garrison, A.                                          Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,    1953.
  Instructor, San Francisco Workers
    School.
George, Harrison                                      Joe Koide, Dec.   3,    1953.
  Clerical worker, Los Angeles former     ;


    editor. People's World.
       (Appeared, Dec. 5, 1953 refused;

       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)       (See also
       Section on hearings held in Los
       Anueles.)
Gerber, Serrill                                       Lou Rosser, Dec.    1, 1953.             (Witness
        (See also Section on hearings                   identified Mr. Gerber as a           member   of
          held in Los Angeles.)                         the Young Communist League.)
Gilbert,    Miss Jane                                 Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Reporter, Daily People's World.
Gilliam,    James                                     William D. Ames, Dec.       4,   1953.
  Smelter worker      ;   Oakland.
Gilliam, Louise                                       William D. Ames, Dec.       4,   1953.
  Oakland.
Goldblatt, Louis          (Communist          Party   Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,    1953.
    name: Lewis    Miller)
  Secretai'y-treasurer, ILWU.
Gonzales, Ella                                        Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov.       2,   1953.
  Berkeley.
Gonzales, Jack                                        Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov.       2,   1953.
Goodman, Esther                    Lou Rosser, Dec.                      1,   1953.
  Secretary, San Francisco Workers
    School.
Goodwin,     Sam                                      Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Instructor,       San Francisco Workers
    School.
116 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                       Identified by

Green, Louis                                            Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.        3,   1953.
   Slot man on copy desk of Daily Peo-
      ple's World.
Green, Walter "Buddy"                                   Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
   Communist Party functionary, Ala-                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
      meda County.                                      William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Griffitli. Kathleen. (See Mrs. Kathleen
   Griffith Hee.)
Grossman, Aubrey                                        Dickson P.   Hill, Dee. 2, 1953.
  Attorney.                                             Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.     (Witness
                                                          identified Mr. Grossman as a member
                                                          of the Young Communist League.)
Halliug, Bjorne                                         Ernest L. Seymour, Nov.          22, 1953.
  Longshoreman, San Francisco.
      (Appeared Dec. 5, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Halpern,     Ray                                        Bertha Grover, Nov.       18, 1953.
  Member, Southwest Berkeley group,
      Communist Party.
Hames, Lynn                                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.         3,       1953.
  Associated with CIO utility workers;
    Alameda County.
Hammond, Gene                                           Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov.           2,    1953.
Hammond, Marian.                   (See Marian Red-
  ner.)
Hanson, Carl                                            Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Chairman, Anita Whitney Club of                       Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
    Communist Party, Oakland, 1948.                     William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Hanson, Mrs. Evelyn                                     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Housewife member of Anita Whit-
                         ;



    ney Club of Communist Party,
    Oakland.
Haywood, Harry                                          Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,   1953.
  Trained in Lenin School, Moscow.
Hearn, Cleveland                                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.             3,    1953.
  Chairman of Estuary Club of Com-
    munist Party, cit.v of Alameda.
Hearn, Inez (Mrs. Cleveland Hearn)                      Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.         3,       1953.
Hedley, Dave                                            Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,   1953.
  In charge of Communist political
        action   work        in   San Francisco.
Hedley, Jean                                            Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Housewife San Francisco.
                         :



Hee, Mrs. Kathleen Griffith                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.         3,       1953.
  Waitress Berkeley, Calif.
                 :



       (Appeared Dec. 4, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Heide, Paul                                             Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,   1953.
  Former         vice
                   president, local            6   of   Dickson P. Hill. Dec. 2, 1953.
        warehousemen's union.                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
Heide,     Ruby (Mrs. Paul Heide)                       Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
                                                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
Hesse, Sig (Sigfried)                                   Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Attorney.
Higman, Nell                                            Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,   1953.
  Retired school teacher Los Angeles. ;


       (See also section on hearings
      held in Los Angeles.)
Hill,    Newton                                         Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.              3,    1953.
  Plasterer    member, Encinal Club of
                     ;


        Communist Party, city of Alameda.
Hill. Pearl (Mrs. Newton'Hill)                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.              3,    1953.
Hill, Preston                                           Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,   1953.
   Member, Communist fraction in long-
     shoremen's union, Los Angeles.
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 117
                                                                      Identtfled ty

Himinelstein, Dave                                      Lou Rosser, Dec.     1,   1953.
  Member, executive committee of Com-
    munist Party section in 14tli Con-
    gressional District, California.
Hood, Dean                                              Lou   Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Member, Communist fraction in long-
    shoremen's union, Los Angeles.
Hudson, Roy                                             Lou Rosser, Dec.     1,   1953.
  Unemployed; resident of San Fran-
    cisco.
        (Appeared Dec. 2, 1953; refused
        to affirm or deny Communist
        Party membership.)    (See also
        Section on hearings held in               New
      York City.)
Hultgren. Ruth (Mrs. Wayne Hultgren)                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Housewife Oakland.;
                                                        William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Hultgren, Wayne                                         Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Carpenter; Communist Party func-                      Charles I). Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    tionary in Alameda County.                          William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Hutchinson, Florence                                    Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
Izzard, Ralph                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Staff writer. Daily People's World.
Jacobson, Nathan                                        Ernest L. Seymour, Nov.           22, 1953.
  Officer,     marine cooks and stewards
    union.
Jackson, Harry                                          Lou Rosser, Dec.     1,   1953.
  West coast organizer of marine work-
    ers' industrial union.
Jenkins, David                                          Ernest L. Seymour, Nov. 22, 1953.
  Member, watei'frout section of Com-                   James Kendall, Dec.         5,   1953.
    munist Party, San Francisco later         ;


    leader of California Labor SchooL
Johnson, Allen                                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.          3,   1953.
  With       the   AFL     carpenters union.
Johnson, Ralph                                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.          3,    1953.
  Head       of petition     campaign for Inde-
    pendent Progressive Party, Berke-
    ley.
Kalman, Bernice                                         Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Member, Anita Whitney Club of                         Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
    Communist Party, Oakland.                           William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Kalman, li^igene                                        Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
  Member, Anita Whitney Club of Com-
    munist Party, Oakland.
Kalman, Herb                                            Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Memljer, Southwest Berkeley group                     Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
    of Communist party.                                 Ernest L. Seymour, Nov. 22, 1953.
Kalman, Ted                                             Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
  Member, Anita Whitney Club of Com-                    William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
    munist Party, Oakland.
Kalman, Teresa                                          Bertha Grover, Nov.        18, 1953.
  Member, southwest Berkeley group of
    Communist Party.
Kaplan, Al                                              Lou Rosser, Dec.     1,   1953.
  Member           of   Communist group within
    warehousemen's union.
Kaplan, Leon                                            James Kendall, Dec.         5,   1953.
  Communist Party county committee.
Keir,   Duncan          Jr.                             James Kendall, Dec.         5,   1953.
         (Witness          testified that   Mr. Keir
        was expelled from the Commu-
        nist Party.)
Keivetz, Jules                                          Lou Rosser, Dec.      1,   1953.
Keller, Morris                                          Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.
118 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                       Identified hy
Kelly, Ora                                               Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
  Meinbe~r, Encinal Club of Communist
     Party, city of Alameda.
Kelly, Mrs. Ora                                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
Kelly, Robert                                            Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
  Believed chairman of Minnesota Com-
    munist Party in 1943.
Kinkead, David                                          Dickson P.   Hill, Dee. 2, 1953.
  Berkeley.
Kirkon, Walter                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
  Carpenter    ;   city of   Alameda.
Kramer, Harry                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.             3,       1953.
  Business manager,           Daily        People's
     World.
Kyer, Charlotte                                         Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Secretarial worker, Oakland.
Lafferty, Mrs. Nori                                     Dickson   P. Hill, Dec.   2,    1953.
  Membership director, Alameda Coun-
    ty Communist Party.
Lambert, Rude                                           Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
      (See also Section on hearings
      held in Los Angeles.)
Lannon, Al (also known as Al Vettari)                   James Kendall, Dec.       5,   1953.
  National coordinator of Communist
    Party waterfront section.
      (See also Section on hearings
      held in New York City.)
Lapin, Adam                                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.            3,       1953.
  Associate   editor. Daily   People's
    World.
      (See also   Section on hearings
      held in New York City.)
Lapin, Mrs. Eva                                         Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.            3,       1953.
  Reporter, Daily People's World.
Laughery, Wilhelmina "Willie"                           Mary  E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
  Orinda, Calif.                                        Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
  Manager of a book store in Berkeley.                  Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
                                                        William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Legard, Albert                                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.           3,        1953.
  City of Alameda.
Lehman, Fanny (Mrs. Lloyd             Lehman)           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.            3, 1953.
                                                        William D. Ames, Dec.          4,   1953.
Lehman, Lloyd                        Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  San Francisco, carpenter    former Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
                                      ;


    chairman, Alameda County Com- Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    munist Party.                    William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
       Appeared Dec. 3, 1953 refused
       (                              ;


      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
LeSeuer, Meridel                                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.           3,    1953.
  Writer.
Lewis, .Tames                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.           3,    1953.
  Resident of Webster housing project,
    city of   Alameda.
Lewis, Veda (Mrs. James Lewis)                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
Lien, Gene                                              Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Resident, Berkeley employed in Oak-
                         ;                              Mary E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
       land.
Lien, Jean (Mrs. Gene Lien)                             Dickson  P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
                                                        Mary  E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
Lima, Mrs. Helen                                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Clerical worker in business             office   of
    Daily People's World.
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 119
                                                                       Identified by
Lindesmith, Rosalind          (Mrs.       Johnny         Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
    Lindesmith)                                          William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
 Los Angeles.         Former public-health
       nurse, Oakland.
Lowe,    Bill                                            Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary affili-                    William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
    ated with Communist group in
       Berkeley.
Lynch, Joe                                               Ernest L. Seymour, Nov.         22, 1953.
  National Maritime Union, Portland,
       Oreg., 194G.
Lynden, Richard (Dick)                                   Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Secretary-treasurer, Local         6,   ILWU   ;


       San Francisco.
         (Appeared Dec. 5, 1953; refused
         to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership. )
Mackie, Martin                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.        3,    1943.
  Secretary, Minnesota
    Communist Party, 1943.
Mah, Dan                                                 Identified in Federal court testimony in
  San Francisco.                                           California, Apr. 1, 1952.
      (Appeared Dec. 2, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Manley, Jack                                             Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland. Calif.                                        Bertha G rover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Manley, Katrina (Mrs. Jack Manley)                       Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Alameda County         official   of the   Com-        Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
    munist Party.
Marrow, Ozzo                                             Bertha Grover, Nov.     18, 1953.
  Member of Southwest Berkeley group
    of the Communist Party.
Martin, Sandra                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.         3,   1953.
  Oakland.    Business agent of CIO
    United Electrical Workers Union.
Mass, John W.                                            Self-admitted membership in Commu-
  Resident,   Walnut Creek, Calif.                   ;     nist Party from 1947 to 1949 accord-
    teacher. City College of San Fran-                     ing to oath of allegiance signed by
       cisco.                                              witness on Oct. 19, 1950, for San Fran-
      (Appeared Dec. 2, 1953; refused                      cisco Unified School District.
         affirm or deny Communist
         to
      Party membership.)
Matanami, Pete                                           Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Auto worker, Oakland.
May, Ruth McGovney (formerly Mrs.
   '
                                                         Bertha Grover, Nov.      18, 1953.
    Kenneth O. May)
  Member Southwest Berkeley group of
    the Communist Party.
Mayhew, Arthur                                           Dickson, P. Hill, Dec.    2,   1953.
  Oakland.
Mayhew,  Elizabeth.        {See Elizabeth Mc-
  Mullen.)
Mays, Andrew                                             Bertha Grover, Nov.      18, 1953.
  Member Southwest Berkeley group of
    tlie Communist Party.
McFadden, James (Jim)                                    Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
  Plumber Oakland.
                ;
                                                         Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
                                                         William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
McGinty, Leona (Mrs. Howland Cham-                       Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
        berlin)
   Communist Party functionary,
      (See also Section on hearings
      held in Los Angeles.)
McGovney, Ruth. (See Ruth McGov-                          Dickson P. HiU, Dec.    2,   1953.
        ney May.)
120 ANNUAL REPORT, CORIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                              Identified hy
McHarg, Janet                              Dickson P.    Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  San Francisco.
Mcintosh, Anna                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.          3.   1953.
  Organizer of the Ben Davis Club of
    the Communist Party in bay area.
McLeod, Don
  Chairman of the Austin Club of the
    Communist Party in the Alameda
    area.
McMullen, Elizabeth (nee Augustine; Dickson P.            Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
    formerly Mrs. Arthur Mayhew)
  Oakland. Legal secretary.
McMullen, Louis                     Dickson P.            Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Employed in auto industry, Oak-
    land.
McMullen, Martha       (formerly  Mrs. Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
     Louis McMullen)
  Former clerical worker. Veterans'
     Administration, Oakland.
Melia, Mrs. Carmen                     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Memher of the Encinal Club of the
     Communist Party in city of Ala-
     meda.
Melia, Joseph                          Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Resident of Berkeley, Calif.         Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
       (Appeared Dec. 4, 1952; refused William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Meyers, Blackie (Frederick N.)         James Kendall, Dec. 5, 1953.
  Official of the National Maritime
    Union.
Mindel, Jacob ("Pop")                      Lou Rosser, Dec.      1,   1953.
  Teacher at Communist Party national
     training school.
Miller, Lewis.   (See Louis Goldblatt.)
Monjar, Elsie (Miss)                       Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953. (Witness
  Los Angeles.                               identified Miss Monjar as a member
                                             of the Young Communist League.)
Montgomery, Jack                           Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  Auto worker bay area and southern
                  ;


    California.
Morgan, John                         Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Formerly business agent of CIO
    Steelworkers Union local in east
    bay area.
Morris, George                  /    Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  Editor of Western Worker.
Morris, Luther                       Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Oakland. Employed at Bethlehem William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
      Shipyards.
Murdock, Steve                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.          3,   1953.
  Feature editor of     Daily   People's
    World.
Murphy, Maurice                            Lou Rosser, Dec.         1, 1953. (Witness
  Actor Hollywood.
        ;                                    identified Mr.      Maurice Murphy as a
       ((See also Section on hearings        member      of    the     Young Communist
       held in Los Angeles.)                 League. )
Naboisek, Herbert                          Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov.             2,   1953.
  Research worker. University of Cali-
    fornia Department of Psychology.
       (Appeared Dec. 5, 1953; denied
       present Communist Party mem-
       bership but refused to aflSrm or
      deny past membership.)
Naboisek, June                             Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov.             2.   1953.
  Berkeley.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-.\MERICAN ACTIVITIES 121
                                                                                    Identified hy
Nelson. Margaret (Mrs. Steve Nelson)                              Lou Rosser, Dec.      1,      1953.
  Coiiiiuuiii.st Party functionary.
Neville. Robert                                                   Mary  E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
  Berkeley.        Warehouseman.                                  Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
                                                                  William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Newman, Mort (Morton Horace)                                      Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953. (Witness
  Active in youth movements in                             late     identified Mr. Mort Newman as a
     l'j;JO's.                                                      nieml)er   of    the        Young Communist
                                                                    League. )
Oakerly. Harold                                                   James Kendall, Dec.            5,    1953.
  Waterfront section of Communist
     Pnrty in San Francisco.
Olsen, Jack (also known as Jack 01-                               Lou Rosser, Dec.      1,      1953.
     shausky )
  OtJicial of Local G               ILWU     ;
                                                 Commu-
     nist Party functionary.
Orr. Violet                                                       Lou Rosser, Dec.      1,      1953.
  Instructor,           San Francisco Workers
     Sciiool.
       (See also Section on hearings
       held in Los Angeles.)
Parker, Eugene                                                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
  City of Alameda. Employed at Beth-
    lehem Shipyards.
Parsons, Frank                                                    Dickson  P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
                                                                  Mary  E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
                                                                  Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Partridge, Sid                                                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Circulation Department,
    Daily People's World.
Pedrick. Jessie                                                   Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.
Pell man,        Matt     (also     known      as Mike            Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 19.53.
     Pell,       Max Appleman,               or Apple-            Also identified by a former Conmiunist
     baum)                                                          in 1952 and iiy a former Communist
  Comnuuiist Party functionary.                                     in 1951.
Peters. J. (also known as Alexander                               Lou Rosser, Dec.       1,     1953.
     Stevens)
   Communist Party functionary.
        (.See a/60 Section              on hearings
        held in Columbus)
i'eters,       Hazel                                              Bertha Grover, Nov.            IS, 1953.
   Member         of the Anita        Whitney Club
     of the        Communist Party                   in   Oak-
     land.
Pfeiffer,       Charles (Charlie)                                 Lou Rosser, Dec.         1,    1953.
   Member          uf    the       Communist              Party
     group in warehousemen's union.
Phillips, Earl                                                    Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Mechanic, Shell Development Co.,
     Eujeryville, Calif.
 Phillips.Marie            (Mrs.      Earl       Phillips)        Dickson   P. Hill,    Dec.      2,    1953.
   Oakland
Pieper, Mrs.        Mary                                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.              3,    1953.
   Housewife, Berkeley.
        Appeared Dec. 3, 1953 refused
           (
                                                 ;


          affirm or deny Communist
           to
       Party membership.)
Polki, John                           Lou Rosser, Dec.                                   1,     1953.
  Member, Communist Party fraction,
     lonushoremeu's union.
 Posey, Max                                                       Lou Rosser, Dec.      1,      1953.
   Member, warehousemen's union, San
      Francisco.
        47400     —54          9
122 ANNUAL REPORT, CORIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                   Identified by

Price,Jake                                         William D. Ames, Dec.              4,   1953.
  General laborer;            member of Elm-
    hurst Clnb of            Communist Party,
    East Oakland.
Price,   Marge                                     William D. Ames, Dec.              4,   1953.
  Member of Elmhurst Club of the
    Communist I'arty, East Oakland.
Proctor, Lyle                                      I-ou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  Member      of      Communist Party group
    in    longshoremen's union, Los An-
    geles.
Rasland, Bob                                       Mary    E. P. Bradsher, Nov.                 2,   1953.
  Berkeley.
Rairland, Clara                                    Mary    E. P. Bradsher, Nov.                 2,   1953.
  Berkeley.
Rand, Jean                                         Lou Rosser, Dec.         1,    1953.              (Witness
  Instructor,         San Francisco Workers         identified    Jean Rand as         a         member      of
    School.                                          the   Young Communist League.)
Redner, Bill                                       Mary    E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
  Berkeley.
Redner, Marian (also          known   as Marian    Mary    E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
    Hammond)
  Berkeley.
Reich, William                                     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
  Member of the Anita Whitney Club of
    the Communist Party, Oakland;
    editor of farm publication.
Richm(»nd, Al                                      Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
  Executive editor of the Daily People's
    World.
Roberson, Mrs. Doris Briu Walker                   Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
     (Dobie)
  Attorney, San Francisco. (Appeared
    Dec. 4, 195.'i; refused to alfirm or
       deny Communist Party member-
         ship.)
Roberson, Mason                                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,   1953.
  Writer for Daily People's World.
                         "



Roberts, Holland                                   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,   1953.
  Teacher and administrator of Cali-
    fornia Labor Scliool.
       (See also Section on hearings
       held in Los Angeles.)
Roberts, Kenneth                                   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,   1953.
  Member of the Encinal Club of the
    Conmiunist Party in city of Ala-
    meda.
Roberts, Vera (Mrs. Kenneth Roberts)               Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.               3,    1953.
  Berkeley.
Robertson, J. R. (Bob)                             James Kendall, Dec.   5, 1953. (Witness
                                                     ideutilied Mr. Robertson as attending
                                                     a closetl meeting of Communist Party
                                                     leaders within waterfront unions
                                                     along the Pacific coast, held in Sau
                                                     Francisco, August 1946.)
Rosser, Mary Lou (formerly Mrs. Lou                Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
    Rosser.       )


Rossman, Leo                                       James Kendall, Dec.           5,    1953.
  Hollywood. Merchant seaman.
Rothstein, Ida                                     Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,    1953.
  Instiuctor, San Francisco Workers
     School charter
              ;               member   of   Com-
    munist Party.
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 123
                                                                  Identified by

Rutter, Bill                                      Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Hailroad worker; member of North
    Oakhind branch of the Communist
    Party.
Sanduw, Dildar                                    Dickson P.  Hill, Dec. 2, 1953. (Witness
  Student.                                          identified Dildar Sandow as a mem-
                                                    ber of the Young Communist League.)
Saunders, David                                   James Kendall, Dec. 5, 1953.
  Chief officer on board the     S. S.   Alice
    H. Rice.
Saxton, Al                                        Ernest L. Seymour, Nov.           22, 1953.
  Member         Communist Party in
              of the
    the American Communications As-
    sociation group in San Francisco,
    1944-46.
Schachter, Harold                                 Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953. (Wit-
  Young Comnmnist League organizer                  ness identified Mr. Schachter as an
    from Brooklyn sent  to Carlton Col-             organizer for the Young Communist
    lege, Minn.                                     League. )
Schlipf, Paul                                     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Auto worker, Oakland.
       (Appeared Dec. 4. 1953; refused
       to affirm or deny Communist
       Party membership.)
Schneiderman, Lou. (See Lou Sher-
  man.)
Schneidernian, William                            Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,   1953.
  Communist Party functionary.                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.          3,   1953.
       (See also Section on hearings
       heldin Los Angeles.)
Seeliger,Lloyd                                    Lou Rosser, Dec.    1,   1953.
  Member ot Communist Party group
    within warehousemen's union.
Segure, Rose                                      Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.          3, 1953.
  Social worker.
       (See also Section on        hearings
      held in Los Angeles.)
Sharpe, Edith                                     Bertha Grover, Nov.      18. 19.53.
  Member      of Anita   Whitney Club    of the   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.         3, 1953.
    Communist Party in Oakland. William D. Ames, Dec. 4,                           1953.
Sherman, Lou (also known as Lou Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
     Schneiderman)
  Member of Communist Party group           in
    warehousemen s union.
       (See also Section on hearings
       held in New York City.)
Sherman, Roi)ert                                  Ernest L. Seymour, Nov. 22, 1953.
  Member     Communist Party group in
              of
    American Coirmumicatious Associ-
    ation in San Francisco.
Sherwood, Mary                                    Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 19.^3.
  Berkeley.
  Former Alameda County membership
    director of the Communist Party,
Siskin,   George                                  Lou Rosser, Dec.    1, 19.53.
  Teacher, Communist Party National               Also identified by a former Communist
    Training School.                                in 1952.
Smith, Mrs. Eleanor                               Bertha Grover, Nov.      18, 1953.
  Housewife, Oakland.                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
Smith. Ferdinand                                  James Kendall, Dec. 5, 1953.
  Former national secretary of the Na-
    tional Maritime Union.
       (See also Section on hearings
      held in New York City.)
124 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

                                                                     Identified by
Smith, Jack                                           James Kendall, Dec,      5,   1953.
  Agent of National Maritime Union in
     Senttle.
Smith, John                                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.           3,   1953.
    Meinl)er of Encinal Club of Com-
    munist Party in city of Alameda.
Stack, Walter                                         Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
  Member of executive committee,                      James Kendall, Dec. 5, 1953.
    waterfront section of Communist
    Party, San Francisco 1940     — in        ;


    marine, firemen, oilers and water-
    tenders union, San Francisco.
Standish, Jack                                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.           3,   1953.
  Meml)er of Encinal Club of Communist
    Party in city of Alameda.
Standish, Ruth (Mrs. Jack Standish)                   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
Stanley, Al                                           Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Agent of hearing aid company, Kerke-
     ley.
Stanley,    Emma         (Mrs. Al Stanley)            Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Communist Party functionary,
    Alameda County.
Starvus, Loretta                                      Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  State otlicial of         Communist Party, William D. Ames, Dec.                        4,   1953.
     California.
       George
Stiller,
                                                      Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Promoter.
Stone,     Martha                                     Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  New    Jersey; attended Communist
    I'arty National Training School in
    New York.
Strack, Celeste                                       Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   19."».'{.

  State official of Communist Party in                Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
     California.                                      Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
                                                        Also identified by a former Commu-
                                                        nist in 1952.
Tandy, Frances                                        Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.
Teague, Emmett                                        Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Sign painter, Oakland.
Teitelbaum, Dave                                      James Kendall, Dec.        5,   1953.
  Purser on S. S. Alice E. Rice.
Telford, Sam                                          James Kendall, Dec.        5,   1953.
  Kesideut, San Francisco.
  lioatswain's mate on the         S.    S.   Alice
    H. Rice.
Terry, Joe                                            Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.                3,   1953.
   Member  of Encinal Club of the Com-
     munist Party in city of Alameda.
Terry, Opal (Mrs. Joe Terry)                          Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
Thompson, Leila                                       Bertha Orover, Nov. IS, 1953.
   Oakland     ;   Communist Party      function-     Dick.son P. Hill, D'c. 2, 1953.
     ary.                                             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
                                                      William D. Ames, D.-c. 4, 1953.
Thompson, Louise                                      Lou Rosser, Dec. 1, 1953.
                 International Worker's
   Official of the
     Order.
        (See also section on hearings
       held in New York City.)
Thonii)S()n,       Ray                                Bertha Grover. Nov. IS, 1953.
  Resident, Berkeley.                                 Marv E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
  CouHuunist Party functionary,                       Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 195,3.
    Alameda County.                                   William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1053.
Thorner, Molly                                        William D. Ames, Dec. 4. 1953.
  Housewife, Oakland.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 125
                                                                       Identified by

TobeT, Clarence                                         Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1053.
  Former Alameda County chairman                  of    William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
    the Connminlst Party.
         (Witnesses        testified   that      Mr.
         Tobey was expelled            from      the
         Communist Party.)
Tobey, Florence (Mr. Clarence Tobey)
  East Oakland; Communist Party                         Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2,1953.
                                                        William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1053.
    functionary.
         (Witnesses        testified   that     Mrs.
         Tobey was expelled            from      the
         Communists Party. )
                                                        Ernest L. Seymour, Nov.         22, 1953.
Tobin.    I'at
                                                        Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
Todd. Louise
                      San Francisco Workers Charles D.               Blodgett, Dec.      3,   1953.
  Instructor,
    School       ;   Communist Party func-
    tionary, California.
       (See also Section on                 hearings
      held in Los Angeles.)
                                                        Dickson P.   Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
Toopeekoff, Eugene Alexander
  Draftsman. Oakhind
      (Appeared Dec             2.   1058: denied
         present       membership       in     Com-
         munist       Party but refused to
         affirm      or deny past member-
         ship.)
                                                        James Kendall, Dec.       5,   1953.
Treskiu, Alex
  Wateriront section organizer for
    Conununist Party in San Francisco.
                                                        Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
Treuhaft. Decca (Mrs. Robert Treu-
    haft)
  Oakland.
                                                   in
  Communist Party functionary
    Alameda County.                                     Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
Treuhaft, Robert
                                                        Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
  Oakland attorney
                 :




       (Appeared Dec.          3, ]9.")3;    refused
         to      affirm   or
                       deny            Communist
         Party membership.)
Utrich,Harry                                            Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Member, Communist Party                   fraction,
    longslioremen's union.
Vettari. A\.  (See Al Lannon.)
Wachter,      Billie                                    Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953*
                                                        William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
Wachter, Saul                                           William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
  Berkeley.
Walker. Freddie                                         Bertha Grover, Nov.        IS, 1953.
  Member, southwest Berkeley group of
  Communist Party.
Ward. Douglas Whitney                                   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.         3,   1953.
  Resident of Sparks. Nev.
       (Appeared Dec. 4. 19.53; denied
      present Communist Party mem-
      bership but refused to affirm or
      deny past membership.)
Warwick, Mrs. Gertrude                                  Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.         3, 19.53.
  Memlter. Anita Whitney Club of Com-                   Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
    nuuiist Party, Oakland.                             William D. Ames, Dec. 4. 1953.
Wheeler. Donald Niven                                   Elizabeth Bentley, July 31, 1948. (Wit-
  Ivpsident of Sequim, Wash. formerly   ;                 ness identified Mr. Wheeler as a mem-
    with Office of Strategic Services.                    ber of an espionage group within the
       (Appeared Dec. 1, 19.53; refused                   U. S. ('ivernment.)
          to  affirm or deny Communist
          Party membersbip or connections
          with espionage Groups in U. S
          Government.)
126 ANNUAL REPORT, COMIVIITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
                                                                  Identified ty
Wheeler, Helen                                  Lou Rosser, Dec.    1. 19.53. (Witness
  Active in building the California               identified Helen Wheeler as a mem-
    Yonth Legislature.                            ber of the Young Comnmnist League. )
Wheeler, Mrs. Juanita                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.                3,        1953.
  Clerical worker in business office of
    Daily People's World.
White, Al                                       Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov.                   2,    1953.
  Richmond,    Calif.
White, Xaorai                                   Mary   E. P. Bradsher, Nov. 2, 1953.
  Richmond, Calif.
Whitney, Anita                                  Lou Rosser, Dec.        1,   1953.
  California State official of   Communist
    Party.
Williams, Bill                                  William D. Ames, Dec.               4,    1953.
  Auto mechanic, Oakland.
Williams, Carl                                  Ernest L. Seymour, Nov.              22, 1953.
  San Fi'ancisco member Marine Cooks
                  ;



    and Stewards Union.
Williams, Fred                                  Bertha Grover, Nov.           IS, 1953.
  Member, southwest Berkeley group of
    Communist Party.
Williams, Gordon                                Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Resident of Oakland; East Bay           di-   Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
    I'ector of California Labor School.
Williams, Harry                                 Lou Rosser, Dec.        1,   1953.
  Active in bay area was student in
                         ;


    Los Anseles in 1932.
Williams, Joy (Mrs. Gordon Williams)            Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Oakland.                                      Charles D. Blodgett. Dec. 3, 1953.
       (Appeared Dec. 4, 1953; refused
      to  affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Wolstenholme, Art                               Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.                3,    1953.
  Operator of cleaning shop, Oakland.

Wolstenholme, Beckie (Mrs. Art Wol-             Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.                3,   1953.
  stenholme)
Wood, Ida                                       Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Paid office worker in Alameda                 William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
    County office of Communist Party.
Wood, James Feuton                              Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 19.5.3.
  Draftsman, San Francisco.                     William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
      (Appeared Dec. 2, 1953; refused
      to affirm or deny Communist
      Party membership.)
Woods, Dorothy (sister of Josephine             Dickson P.     Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Woods   Eidenoif).
  Berkeley.
Woods, Harrie                                   Dickson   P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Carpenter, Oakland.
Woods, Hilda (Mrs. Harrie        Woods)         Dickson P.     Hill,   Dec.    2,   1953.
  Housewife.
Woods, Josephine.     (See        Josephine
  Woods     Eideuoff.)
Yanish, Ann (Mrs. Nat Tanish)                   Dickson P. Hill, Dec. 2, 1953.
  Housewife, Oakland.                           Charles D. Blodgett, Dec. 3, 1953.
                                                William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
                                                Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Yanish, Nat                                     Dickson P. Hill. Dec. 2, 1953.
  Former advertising manager         of the     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.           3, 19.53.
    Daily People's World.                       William D. Ames, Dec. 4, 1953.
                                                Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
Yates, Al    (Allen)                            Lou Rosser, Dec.       1,    1953.
  Seaman, San Francisco.
       (See also Section on hearings
       held in Los Angeles.)
       ANNUAL REPORT, COIMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                             ACTIVITIES 127

                                                                 Identified   J)y

Yates. Oleta O'Connor (also           known   as   Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
    Oleta O'Connor)
  State otficial of the Communist Party
    in California.
       (See also Section on hearings
      held in Los Angeles.)
Younce, Richard                                    Charles D. Blodgett, Dee. 3, 1953.
  Treasurer of the Anita Whitney Club              Bertha Grover, Nov. 18, 1953.
    of Communist Party, Oakland.
Young, Adele                                       Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Comnninist Party functionary in Cali-
      fornia.
Young, Beniard                                     Charles D. Blodgett, Dec.        3,   1953.
  Political       committee of Com-
                alTairs
    munist Party of Alameda County.
YouuK, Cone C.                                     Lou Rosser, Dec.   1,   1953.
  Otticial of   ILWU      in   San Pedro.

                                 CONSUMERS' UNION
  It will be noted in other sections of this report that the committee
has   made everyeffort to alert individuals and organizations who feel
that their names are unjustly reflected in the committee's records or
testimony to communicate with the committee to rectify or clarify
their position.
  A   very tangible example of the success that the committee has
gained in these efforts relates to Consumers' Union, which is the pub-
lisher of Consumer Reports.       This organization, on the basis of in-
formation in the committee records, had been cited by the Special
Committee on Un-American Activities in 1944. Steps were initiated
by Consumers' Union through its officers and legal counsel to clarify
this situation.    After hearings and thoroun;h study the committee
finds there is no present justification for continuing this organization
as one that is cited, and future reports and publications will reflect that
this organization has been deleted from the list of subversive organiza-
tions and publications.
   It cannot be pointed out too frequently that the fact that an organ-
ization has been cited as subversive or as a Communist front does not
mean that such citation is irrevocable. Steps such as those taken by
Consumers' Union, can lead to a proper clarification by the committee.
                       RULES OF PEOCEDURE
  In the first organizational meeting of the House Committee on Un-
Ajnerican Activities in January 1953, the members decided that there
was a need for the codification of the committee's rules of procedure.
As the result of careful study the committee released these rules on
July 15, 1953.
  This codification of the rules did not substantially change the pro-
cedures that the committee had followed in the past. There were,
however, certain additional obligations which the committee imposed
upon   itself.
  The    principal addition was the requirement that persons named
for the first time in public hearing before the committee or subcom-
mittee as subversive, Fascist, Communist, or alliliated with one or
more subversive-front organizations, shall where practicable and with-
in a reasonable time thereafter, be notified of this fact by registered
letter to the last-lmown address for the individual.
   In many instances it is virtually impossible for the committee to
ascertain the location of an individual named in testimony. However,
if a person learns that his name has been so reflected in public testi-
mony, the same rule will apply.
   Because of the importance of the action taken by the committee in
codifying its rules and in order that the Congress may be fully ap-
praised of its procedures, the rules are being set forth here in their
entirety     :



                                   Rules of Procedure
                        i.    initiation of investigations

  No major    investigation sliall be initiated wtihont approval of a majority of
the committee. I'reliminary inquiries, however, may be initiated by the com-
mittee's staff with the approval of the chairman of the committee.

                            II.   SUBJECTS OF INVESTIGATION
  The subject of any investigation in connection with which witnesses are sum-
moned or shall otherwise appear shall be announced in an opening statement
to the committee before the commencement of any hearings; and the information
sought to be elicited at the hearings shall be relevant and germane to the subject
as so stated.
                            in.   SUBPENAING OP WITNESSES
  A. Subpenas shall be signed and issued by the chairman of the committee, or
any member of the committee designated by said chairman.
  R. Witnesses shall be subpenaed at a reasonably sufficient time In advance of
any hearing, said time to be determined by the committee, in order to give the
witness an opportunity to prepare for the hearing and to employ counsel, should
he so desire.
                      IV.   EXECUTIVE AND PUBLIC HEARINOS
A. Executive
   (1) If a majority of the committee or subcommittee, duly appointed as pro-
vided hy the rules of the House of Representatives, believes that the interroga-
tion of a witness in a public hearing might endanger national security or unjustly

       128
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 129

injure his reputation, or the reputation of other individuals, the committee shall
Interrogate such witness in an executive session for the purpose of determining
the necessity or advisability of conducting such interrogation thereafter in a
public hearing.
   (2) Attendance at executive sessions shall be limited to members of the com-
mittee, its staff, and other persons whose presence is requested, or consented to
by the committee.
   (3) All testimony taken in executive sessions shall be kept secret and shall
not be released or used in public sessions without the approval of a majority of
the committee.                                                                                 i
B. Public hearings
   (1) All other hearings shall be public.

                                 v.   TESTIMONY UNDER OATH
  All witnesses at public or executive hearings who testify as to matters of fact
shall give all testimony under oath or affirmation.    Only the chairman or a
member of the committee shall be empowered to administer said oatli or
affirmation.
                                VI.   TRANSCRIPT OF TESTIMONY
  A complete and accurate record shall be kept of all testimony and proceedings
at hearings, both in public and in executive session.
  Any witness or his counsel, at the expense of the witness, may obtain a tran-
script of any public testimony of the witness from the clerk of the committee.
  Any witness or his counsel may also obtain a transcript of any executive
testimony of the witness    :



        (1) When a special release of said testimony prior to public release is
     authorized by the chairman of the committee or the chairman of any
     sui)com'mittee or
                     ;


        (2) After said testimony has been made public by the committee.

                                      Vn. ADVICE OF COUNSEL

  A. At every hearing, public or executive, every witness shall be accorded the
privilege of having counsel of his own choosing.
  B. The participation of counsel during the course of any hearing and while
the witness is testifying shall be limited to advising said witness as to his legal
rights.  Counsel shall not be permitted to engage in oral argument with the
committee, but shall confine his activity to the area of legal advice to his client.

                                 VHI.    CONDUCT OF COUNSEL
   Counsel for a witness shall conduct himself in a professional, ethical, and
proper manner. His failure to do so shall, upon a finding to that effect by a
majority of the committee or subcommittee before which the witness is appear-
ing, subject such counsel to disciplinary action which may include warning,
censure, removing from the hearing room of counsel, or a recommendation of
contempt proceedings.'
  In case of such removal of counsel, the witness shall have a reasonable time
to obtain other counsel, said time to be determined by the committee.   Should
the witness deliberately or capricioiisly fail or refuse to obtain the services of
other counsel within such reasonable time, the hearing shall continue and the
testimony of such witness shall be heard without benefit of counsel.

                                IX.    STATEMENT BY WITNESS
  A. Any witness desiring to make a prepared or written statement ' for the
record of the proceedings in executive or public sessions shall file a copy of such
statement with the counsel of the committee within a reasonable period of time
In advance of the hearing at which the statement is to be presented.

  * The
         committee seeks factual testimony within the personal knowledge of the witness and
each testimony and answers must be given by the witness himself and not suggested to
witness by counspl.
  '
    Stateriirnts which take the form of personal attacks by the witness upon the motives of
the committee, thf> personal characters of any Members of the Congress or of the com-
mittee staff, and statements clearly in the nature of accusation are not deemed to be cither
relevant or germane.
130 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  B. All such statements so received which are relevant and germane to the
subject of the investigation may, upon approval, at the conclusion of the testi-
mony of the vpitness, by a majority vote of the committee or subcommittee mem-
bers present, be inserted in the official transcript of the proceedings.

                  X.   EIGHTS OF PERSONS AFFECTED BY A HEARING
   A. Where practicable, any person named in a public hearing before the com-
mittee or any suhcommittee as subversive, Fascist, Communist, or affiliated with
one or more subversive-front organizations, who has not been previously so
named, shall, within a reasonable time thereafter, be notified by registered
letter, to the address last known to the committee, of such fact, including:
        (1) A statement that he has been so named,
        (2) The date and place of said hearing,
        (3) The name of the person who so testified,
        (4) The name of the subversive. Fascist, Communist, or front organiza-
     tion with which he has been identified, and
        (5) A copy of the printed Rules of Procedure of the committee.
   B. Any person, so notified, who believes that his character or reputation has
been adversely affected or to whom has been imputed subversive activity, may
within 15 days after receipt of said notice:
        (1) Commvmicate with the counsel of the committee,' and/or
        (2) Request to appear at his own expense in person before the committee
     or any suhcommittee thereof in public session and give testimony, in denial
     or affirmation, relevant and germane to the subject of the investigation.
   O. Any such person testifying under the provisions of B (2) above shall be
accorded the same privileges as any other witness appearing before the commit-
tee, and may be questioned concerning any matter relevant and germane to the
subject of the investigation.

                              XI.    ADMISSIBILITY OF TESTIMONY

  A  witness shall be limited to giving information relevant and germane to the
subject under investigation. The committee shall rule upon the admissibility
of all testimony or information presented by the witness.*

                       XII.   RELATIONSHIP OF HUSBAND AND WIFE

  The   confidential relationship            between husband and wife shall be respected,
and for reasons of public         one spouse shall not be questioned concerning
                                    policy,
the activities of the other, except when a majority of the committee or sub-
committee shall determine otherwise.

                                     xm.      TELEVISED HEARINGS

  A. If a hearing be televised           :


       (1) Television facilities in the hearing room shall be restricted to two
    cameras, the minimum lighting facilities practicable, and the television pro-
    duction shall be available on a pool basis to all established television com-
    panies desiring participation.
       (2) Telecasts of committee hearings shall be on the basis of a public
    service only, and this fact shall be publicly announced on television in
    the beginning and at the close of each telecast. No commercial announce-
    ments shall be permitted from the hearing room or in connection therewith,
    and no actual or intimated sponsorship of the hearings shall be permitted in
      any instance.

  8 All witnessps are invited at any time to confer with committee counsel or investigators
for tlip committee prior to hearinss.
  *
    Tlie House Committee on Un-American Activities is a congressional committee, not a
conrt (SCO pp. IV and V).     Moreover, the committee has neither the authority nor the vast
powers of a court of law.
   A concrressional committee conducts a search for information, not a trial.
  The requirements of time, the nature of the factfindins hearing, the complications of
travel, the realities of expense, and the voluminous duties of Members of Congress all add
tosrether to make it impractical for courtroom procedure to bo followed.
   The committee has given frequent and diligent consideration to this pro.iect, and has
determined that in order to carry out its responsibilities imposed by law, the rules of
evidence, including cross-examination, are not applicable.
      AKNTTAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 131

  B. Upon the request of a witness that no telecast be made of him during the
course of his testimony, the chairman shall direct that television cameras
refrain from photographing the witness during the taking of his testimony.

                               XIV.   COMMITTEE REPORTS
  A. No committee reports or publications shall be made or released to the
public without the approval of the majority of the committee.
  B. No summary of any committee report or publication and no statement of
the contents of such report or publication shall be released by any member of         (
the committee or its staff, prior to the official issuance of the report.

                   XV.   WITNESS FEES AND TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
  Each witness who has been subpenaed, upon the completion of his testimony
before the committee, may report to the office of the clerli of the committee, room
227, Old House Office Building, Washington, D. C, and there sign appropriate
vouchers for travel allowances and attendance fees upon the committee. If
hearings are held in cities other than Washington, D. C, the witness may
contact the clerk of the committee, or his representative, prior to leaving the
hearing room.
                            XVI.   CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS
  No recommendation that a witness be cited for contempt of Congress shall be
forwarded to the House of Representatives unless and until the committee has,
upon notice to all its members, met and considered the alleged contempt, and by
a majority of those present voted that such recommendation be made.

                           XVII. DISTRIBUTION   OF ETJLES
  All witnesses appearing before the House Committee on Un-American Activities
shall be furnished a printed copy of the Rules of Procedure of the committee.
               FILES      AND REFERENCE SERVICE
   For a number of years this committee has maintained a specialized
reference service in the field of subversive activities insofar as fur-
nishing any information that may appear on a given subject in the
committee's own public records, files, and publications. This service
is available at present only to Members of Congress, the representa-
tives of the executive branch of the Government, and, of course, to
all staff members of this committee, varying somewhat according to

type and amount of material found and the needs of the person seek-
ing the information.
   Due to the confusion that has arisen as to the nature of the com-
mittee's files, it should be stated that the material from which reports
are prepared for Members of Congress and other authorized com-
mittees and agencies is compiled from public sources such as news-
papers, magazines, authenticated letterheads, and other documents
available from public sources, and could be compiled by personal re-
search on the part of any individual. These files are distinguished
from the investigative files, which material is not available to anyone
except the committee investigators themselves.
   It should be noted that no information which is voluntarily given
by individuals or groups is incorporated into these files unless the
source and nature of the material has been adequately checked to in-
sure its accuracy and validity.
   Each report that is furnished from the committee's files contains
the following disclaimer     :



  The                      and publications of
       public records, files,                    this committee contain the follow-
ing information conceriiiiijE; (organization/individual). This report should not
be construed as representing the results of an investigation by, or findings of,
this committee.    It should be noted that the individuals and/or organization
referred to above are not necessarily Communist, Communist sympathizers, or
fellow travelers, unless otherwise indicated.

  The Members of Congress make constant use of this service with
queries ranging all the way from a request for the prompt verification
of a single point or a brief summary of available material to the sub-
mission of a list of both individual and organization names for a
complete check and full report on each item. In every case, a complete
check of the pertinent indexes and source material must be made be-
fore an answer is supplied, but the answer may be given in either
verbal or written form, verbal answers being employed only when so
requested and the material may be summarized briefiy and easily or
when a check has shown that we have no information to report on
the subject. The more usual type of request, however, is for a com-
plete written report setting forth not only what has been found but
also where each reference appears.
  Much the same conditions prevail in regard to supplying informa-
tion to the committee's staff members, who, although they often wish
to examine or borrow the source material itself, also need that in-
        132
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN         ACTIVITIES 133

formation assembled for them into readily accessible written form
to use in connection with the extensive investigations being con-
ducted under direction of the committee.
   On the other hand, the executive departments and agencies, which
are required by Executive order to make a check of the committee's
files, send their own representatives to make the check of the indexes
to the material contained in the files and publications.   The staff of
this section is required to furnish these agents only such reference
service as is involved in the pointing out of reference sources, expla-
nation of how the material iifdexed is recorded on the index cards, and
the withdrawal of exhibit material from files for their examination
when  specifically authorized to do so.
  Neither the extent of subject matter contained in the reference
questions nor the time and work involved in furnishing the answers
can be reduced to figures. The following statistics, however, do indi-
cate something of the steady overall growth in demand for the service.
    A count has shown that a total of about 3,800 requests for informa-
tion on 10,095 individuals and 2,459 organizations were received and
answered by this section during the past year. This resulted in the
furnishing of written reports covering 7,687 individuals and 882 or-
ganizations, and, as compared to the 1952 count, represents an in-
crease of 200 in the total number of requests received, with 1,195 more
individual and 459 more organization names included in the requests.
A   further comparison of figures for the 2 years has shown 2,338 re-
quests received from and 1,285 written reports supplied to the Mem-
bers of Congress as against 2,400 requests received and 1,440 written
replies to them in 1952, a small decrease which may have been caused
by a change in the office procedure of handling requests.
   The total number of visits made to the files by the designated repre-
sentatives of the executive departments and agencies has shown a
decline from 6,260 in 1952 to 4,880 in 1953. This does not indicate
any lessening of interest in or use of the committee's reference mate-
rial as it may seem to appear on the surface, for the average length
of each visit has increased appreciably with more persons than ever
before assigned full time to the checking of our records.
   Equally important, though not always remembered, is the fact that
such reference service, to be reliable, requires the proper care and
handling of old material as well as the constant acquisition and proper
classification, cross referencing and indexing of new material.     The
age and volume of the committee's valuable collection of pamphlets,
periodicals, books, newspapers, leaflets, letterheads, and other source
material both primary and secondary has presented problems of hous-
ing, handling, and processing which continue to increase in difficulty
in direct proportion to those factors.    Pressure of work has not af-
forded time for keeping an accurate running count of the amount of
file material acquired, the number of index cards added, or the number
of pieces classified and processed for files. However, it seems fair
to estimate that the acquisition, classification, and indexing of the
Communist press source material has kept apace of other years and
that approximately 4,000 pages of the printed hearings and reports of
this committee, already indexed, have been added as compared to the
2,827 pages of publications received and indexed by this section in
1952.
                              PUBLICATIONS
t      The printed copies of the hearings conducted by the committee,
    available not only to Members of Congress, but also to the general
    public, so long as the supply of them lasts, make
                                                        it possible for thou-

    sands of persons all over the country to become acquainted with what
    actually happened at each session. The reports, either in summarizing
    the work of the committee in various fields, or in giving detailed
    information on certain phases of subversive activities in connection
    with particular organizations, furnish to the Congress and to the
    country the results of highly intensified research, replete with docu-
    mentary material from the files of the committee.
      A  study of these hearings and reports reveals a graphic pattern of
    the methods and practices of subversive elements in this country
    which would destroy not only the Constitution and Government of
    the United States, but our very way of life, substituting in their places
    foreign ideologies which would terminate all freedom of expression,
    individual rights as guaranteed by our Constitution, and all else that
    is held sacred in this country today.
       Due to the fact that the number of copies of each hearing and report
    printed by the committee is limited, it is possible to comply with only
    a part of the requests which are received daily for them. These re-
    quests, from congressional offices, individuals. Government agencies,
    organizations comprised of religious, patriotic, veteran, labor, and
    educational groups, as well as those of the legal and medical profes-
    sions, are filled as quickly as possible.  Thus, the work of the com-
    mittee is made clear to each person who reads these hearings and
    reports. In filling these many requests, approximately 225,000 copies
    of committee publications were distributee! during 1953.
       Reflecting the extensive and diversified scope of the work of the
    committee for the year 1953, the committee has either put into print
    already or sufficient work of this type is in progress to complete
    approximately 4,000 pages of hearings and reports. This number is
    ever twice that of any complete Congress covering periods of 2 years.

                 Organized Communism in the United States
      The report   issued by the committee on August 19, 1953, under title,
    "Organized    Communism    in the United States," a highly documented
    historical review of the many twists and turns of Communist Party
    line, its varied constitutional aspects, changes of name, and shifts of
    hierarchy from its beginning to the present time, has met with instant
    acclaim as being invaluable to persons      who wish   to   have detailed
    knowledge of    this subject.
      The supply of copies obtained by the committee which was com-
    pletely exhausted in a matter of days after its original printing will be
    augmented by a large new printing early in 1954. It will then be
           134
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 135

possible to       fulfill   the   many   requests for     them that are being held     until
that time.

  Committee Publications for the 1st Session op the 83d Congress, 1953
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Education)
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Education Part 2)        —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the Los Angeles            Area   —Part 1
Investi.i,'ation of Communist Activities in the Los Anjieles        Area   — Part 2            (
Investi.uation of Communist Activities in the Los Angeles           Area   — Part
Investigation of Communist Activities in the Los Angeles            Area   — Part 34
Investigation of Comnuinist Activities in           the Los Angeles Area   — Part 5
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Education Part 3)        —
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Education Part 4)        —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York City Area Part 1      —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York City Area Part 2     —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York City Area Part 3     —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York City Area Part 4     —
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Education Part 5)        —
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Government-Labor)
                        —
Franciszek Jarecki Flight to Freedom
Soviet Schedule for War 1955      —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the Columbus, Ohio, Area
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Education Part 6)        —
Testimony of Stephen H. Fritchman
Communist Methods of Infiltration (Government-Labor, Part 2)
Investigation of Comnuinist Activities in the New York City Area Part 5
                                                                            —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York City Area Part 6
                                                                            —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York City Area Part 7
                                                                            —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the New York City Area Part 8
                                                                            —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the Los Angeles Area Part 6
                                                                            —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the Albany, N. Y., Area Part 1
                                                                           —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the Albany, N. Y., Area Part 2
                                                                           —
Investigation of Communist Activities in the Los Angeles Area Part 7
                                                                           —
Testimony of Dr. Marek Stanislaw Korowicz
Hearings Regarding Jack R. McMichael
Investigation of Communist Activities In the Philadelphia, Pa., Area Part 1
                                                                                —
Investigation of Communist Activities In the Philadelphia, Pa., Area Part 2
                                                                                —
Methods of Communist Infiltration (Government-Labor, Part 3, based on testi-
  mony      of   James McNamara)^
Testimony of G. Bromley Oxnam
                                          '

                                                                                           '
Investigation of      Communist            San Francisco Area (Parts 1^)
                                      Activities In the
Organized Communism in the United States
Annual Report of the Committee on Un-American Activities for the Year 1953
  1
      In process of being printed at date of this report.
                     PAST RECOMMENDATIONS
   In the past years the House Committee on Un-American Activities,
after exhaustive study of its investigations and hearings, has, from
time to time, made recommendations to the Congress for the enactment
of legishition necessary to combat subversion.
   The Internal Security Act of 1950 resulted directly from hearings
conducted before this committee and many of the recommendations
dealing with security against subversive aliens have been incorporated
in the McCarran-Walter immigration act.         Certain other of the rec-
ommendations have been enacted by resolutions of various Members
of Congress and other recommendations have been acted upon by the
executive branch of the Government.      It is regrettable, however, that
in numerous instances recommendations that the committee has made
which would serve as a security safeguard against subversive activities
in the United States have not yet been enacted into law.
   In order that the Congress and the American people might have an
understanding of the recommendations that have been made by the
committee in the past, there follows a complete list of all recommenda-
tions made by this committee since the first session of the Seventy-
sixth Congress.

  Recommendations contained in House Report No.                    2,   76th Con-
gress, 1st session, dated
                     January 3, 1939:
   Although this committee has worked continuously since the adjournment of
Congress and has done everything within its i)ower to get as many facts as
possible to the people, we have only skimmed the surface. We were able only
to hold brief hearings in Xew York and Detroit.    We were urged to conduct hear-
ings in many other cities, such as Chicago, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Minneapolis,
Milwaukee, Birmingham, Atlanta, New Orleans, San Antonio, Los Angeles, San
Fiancisco, Seattle, and Portland, but due to limited time and funds we were
unable to comply with these requests. We had hoped and planned to conduct
extensive hearings on the west coast because the evidence before the committee
indicates that this area ranks first in the extent of un-American activities and
propaganda. We received numerous letters from citizens and public officials in
the west-coast area urging us to hold hearings there. We have approximately
350 witnesses on the west coast that should have been heard. However, due
to a lack of funds, we wei'e unable to devote any extensive consideration to
west coast activities of Communist, Nazi, and Fascist groups. The situation is
so serious on the west coast that it would recjuire G months of preparatory in-
vestigation before a committee would be ready to conduct hearings, and it is
probable that hearings would last 3 or 4 months.
   Not only weie we unable to investigate un-American activities and propaganda
in many important sections of the country; but. as a matter of fact, we found it
impossible to investigate many of the important phases of un-American activi-
ties.  Even as to those that we did investigate, we only scratched the surface.
   In view of the foregoing, we do not think that the investigation has proceeded
far enough to .iustify us in recommending legislation to Congress. We need and
can secure much more information not only from sections of the country that
we have investigated hut also from the larger areas that we have not even
touched before recommending legislation to Congress. Even after we are sup-
plied with full and complete information and facts, several months of considera-
tion must be devoted to the question of legislation.     This will require expert
assistance and thorough research.
      '36
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON TJN-AMERICAN                 ACTIVITIES 137

  Legislative recommendations contained in Report No. 1, 77th
Congress, 1st session, dated January 3, 1941:
  The committee realizes the difficulty of reaching and curbing certain phases of
un-American and subversive propaganda and activities through legislative action.
In vievp of our findings and the origin of these activities, we submit the following
recommendations as a partial legislative program      :



  The enactment of legislation to bring about the immediate mandatory deporta-
tion of alien spies and saboteurs.
  The mandatory deportation of aliens who advocate any basic change in the
form of our Government.
  The enactment of legislation requiring that all employees and officials of our
Federal Government be Americjin citizens.
  Withhold all Federal financial support from any educational institution which
permits members of its faculty to advocate communism, fascism, or nazisni as
a substitute for our form of Government to the student body of these educa-
tional institutions. (This particular recommendation is not concurred in by Mr.
Voorhis, not because of disagreement with the principle involved but on the uround
that the administration of such an act is impossible without risking grave in-
justice being done to people seeking merely to explain the jirinciples involved
in totalitarian philosophy.)
  The enactment of legislation to outlaw every political organization which is
shown to be under the control of a foreign government. As long as these organi-
zations have a le.iral status in the United States, it will be difficult for any agency
of the Government to deal with them.      We   now kmnv that tliey furnish the legal
apparatus for the operations of saboteurs, and the window dressing for espionage.
The committee believes that legislation can be worked out to outlaw such organi-
zations, and that this will in no sen.se constitute a violation of the Bill of Rights,
since such legislation would only affect organizations controlled or directed by
foreign countries.
  The enactment of legislation to sto]) all ininiigrntion from foi-eian countries
that refuse to accept the return of their nationals found under American law
to be deportable from tliis country.    This legislation is made necessary by the
fact that some foreign governments have refused to accept their own citizens
who have been deported by the United States Go\ernment.
   As previously stated in the body of the rei»ort, the committee recommends
the pas.sage of added legislation to place restrictions on the distribution of totali-
tarian propaganda, when that distribution involves any cost to the American tax-
pa.vers, and when such propaganda emanates and is shipped from foreign
soiu'ces
  We recommend that the statutory poriod during which citizenship papers can
be revoked under existing law he extended to at least 30 years.
  Due to the fact that tlie committee has discovered that many members of
foreign-controlled organizations have traveled on American jiassports which
have been frauilulently obtained, the committee feels that the statute of limita-
tions should be extended from 8 to 7 years. This is made necessary because of
the unusual difficulty in apjirehonding those who resort to the use of fraudulent
I)assports within the period of 3 years.
     4-              *        *            •              4>        *            *

   The committee recommends as a policy that employment in national-defense
industries or the Goverinneiit service he denied to any jierson who has been and
is now active in any political organization which is found to be under the control
and guidance of a foreign government.
  Recommendations contained in House Report No. 2742, 79th
Congress, 2d session, dated January 2, 1947                    :



  That the Congress create an independent commission with authority to invc^iti-
gate and to order the discharge of any employee or official of the l'\Hleral
Government whose loyalty to the T'nited States is found to be in doubt.
  That the Depavtment of State and the Department of .Justice be required by
law to publicize every 6 months the names and identity of all agents of any
foreign governments who are in the T'nited States for either diplomatic, com-
mercial, or other purposes.
  That the Dei)artment of Justice be required b.v law to establish within the
Deiiartment a special division devoted to the prosecution of subversive elements
now o»'f^vr.)-nTiT in the T'nited States.
              — 54
          47400          10
138 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  That the Attorney General be instructed by a proper resolution of the House
               House the number of prosecutions instituted under the Voorhis
to report to the
Act and the McCormack Alien Registration Act, and to advise the Congress if
new   legislation is necessary to insure the security of this country.
  That    legislation should be enacted that would restrict Federal employment
to citizens of the United States and that only citizens be permitted to hold
office in any labor union subject to Federal laws.
   That legislation be enacted requiring that all alien Communists and other
subversive aliens be promptly deported and that the Immigration Service main-
tain a stringent screening process to restrain the present influx of aliens into
the United States and to determine whether their political background is inimi-
cal to the best interests of the United States Government.
   Legislation should be enacted to restrict the benefits of certain tax-exemption
privileges now extended to a number of Communist fronts posing as educational,
charitable,and relief organizations.    ,


  The following is a quotation from committee Report No. 1996, Union Calendar
No. 588, 79th Congress, 2d session, submitted by Chairman John S. Wood, May
10,   1946   :


  "The investigative  staff of your committee has conducted an extensive investi-
gation into the various sources of financial aid to organizations engaged in the
dissemination of propaganda in the United States. The heart of propaganda
activities is, by necessity, sustained with money.     Reasonable regulation of
tax exemptions and proper enforcement of such regulations would immediately
restrain to u large extent the vicious attacks now being made upon our constitu-
tionalform of government."
  That the House request, by proper resolution, a report from the Postmaster
General of the United States, setting forth the number of embassies or foreign
agencies now enjoying second-class mailing privileges and also specifically iden-
tifying such agencies where the respective foreign governments do not accord
to our embassies, ministers, and other United States officials equal mailing
l^rivileges in those countries, and that proper legislation be enacted by Congress
limiting the use of second-class mailing privileges to such embassies and agencies
of those foreign governments which extend reciprocal privileges to officials of
the United States Government.
   That legislation be enacted forbidding the use of the United States mails
under set-oud-class mailing privileges to any and all newspapers and periodicals
printed in any language other than English, which do not carry a full English
translation, in parallel columns, next to the foreign-language context.
  That legislation oe enacted denying the use of second-class mailing privileges
to any groups of persons or organizations engaged in the publication, distribution,
or promotion of subversive or un-American propaganda.
  For many years, various organizations in the United States have permitted
membership under an alias or an assumed name, and have even gone so far as
to permit concealed or secret membership. It is recommended that the Congress
enact legislation designed to prohibit memliership in any organization using
the United States mails or subject to Federal laws, by persons using an alias
or assumed name. Such legislation should also include a provision which would
clearly ban concealed or secret memberships in any such organizations as de-
scribed above. An exemption should be made for properly authorized law-
enforcement officers in the conduct of their investigations.
  Recommendations contained in the annual report of the com-
mittee to the House of Representatives, 80th Congress, 2d session,
dated December          31, 1948:
  In   its   annual report of January3, 1940, the Special Committee on Un-Ameri-
can Activities characterized the Communist Party of the United States not as a
true political party but as a conspiracy in behalf of the Soviet Union. Our in-
vestigations and hearings during the past 2 years have borne out this conclusion
in the most startling fashion. The evidence now before us establishes beyond a
doul)t that espionage and treasonable activity against these United States is,
in fact, the primary purpose of the organization. We are convinced that all other
outward activity and propaganda of the Conununist I'arty, its front organiza-
                                            —
tions, and controlled unions, serve merely to
   Enlist new recruits for the primary underground espionage apparatus.
   Lend an idealistic camouflage to this sinister conspiratorial apparatus.
   Act as its protective defense mechanism.
   Provide it witli funds and other resources.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                        ACTIVITIES 139

   The enacting of legislation to cope   with this problem   is   a task confronting the
incomini;" Congress.
  We   reconiniend the early passage of legislation modeled substantially after
the so-called Muudt-Nixon   bill, which passed the House last year by a roUcall
vote of 319 to 5G.
  In addition, we recommend that the espionage laws of the United States be
substantially strengthened by early laws of the new Congress, with special atten-
tion to means for returning aliens to other countries upon conviction for crimes
against the United States. We also recommend that the penalties for those
properly cited for contempt of Congress be increased to a minimum of 5 years in
prison and a $5,000 fine.
  We further suggest that our immigration laws and passport-visa regulations
be carefully studied to determine what changes are necessary to prevent disloyal
elements from entering this country and remaining here.
   Recommendations contained in the annual report of the com-
mittee to the House of Representatives, 81st Congress, 1st ses-
sion, for the year 1949, dated March 15, 1950:
  Looliing bacli upon 4 years' experience as a standing committee of the House
of Representatives and almost 7 years as a special committee, we feel more than
ever impressed with the insidiousness and vastness of the ramifications of the
Communist movement and the urgent necessity for unflagging efforts to expose
and curb its machinations. To further the effectiveness of these investigations
and to curb the subversive activities of the Communist Party, United States of
America, its agents and its dupes, the committee recommends the following
action by the incoming House of Representatives     :



  The statute of limitations in espionage cases must be amended. Under our
present laws we have found that a long list of Communist operatives who have
committed acts of espionage and treachery in the interest of a foreign power
have remained immune to punishment due to the present form of the statute of
limitations.
                              —
  The nature of modern war the fact that nations find themselves confronted
                                                —
nowadays with undeclared but actual warfare makes it necessary that the legal
definition of treason and tlie penalties attached thereto be broadened to cover
a period like the present cold war.
  Experience during the past 5 years has demonstrated that the embassies of
Communist-dominated countries constitute a focal point of Communist espionage
and propaganda. Such activity should be limited by proper safeguards sternly
enforced.
  H. R. 3903, providing safeguards against the employment of subversive indi-
viduals in defense plants, should be adopted.
  H. R. 10, providing for the supervision and detention of undeportable aliens,
should be enacted into law in order to deal with thousands of alien Communists
refused acceptance by the country of their birth.
  It would be advantageous to enact legislation creating a presumption of law
that a committee quorum, once established, continues to exist.
  Effective action against tlie well-coordinated, interlocking Communist network
requires the utmost teamwork among branches of the Government. Petty rivalry
or separatism can only work to the advantage of the Communists. A small bit
of information in the hands of one agency may well be the missing link of an
entire chain of evidence in the hands of another agency. Hence, the committee
recommends the fullest cooperation between legislative and executive arms of the
Government in the matter of dealing with subversive activities. Alodiiication of
the Executive order in loyalty and investigative cases is recommended for
consideration.
  In a laumber of cases we have found that subversive elements will submit in-
formation to one arm of the Government when it suits their purpose and will
withhold it from another. Communist trade-unionists will deny their aililiations
before the National Labor Relations Board and refuse to affirm or denv them be-
fore a congressional committee. They will deny them in filling out form 57 in
applying for Federal employment and refuse to allirm or deny such affiliations
before this committee. It is highly necessary that the Department of .In.stice
take effective action against those who would make a tragic joke of law enforce-
ment. Here, again, there is room for maximum cooperation between the legisla-
tive and executive arms of Government.
140 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  In connection with national-defense contracts involving secret and classified
work  for the Atomic Energy Commission, the Army, Navy, and Air Force legis-
lation should lie enacted which subjects officers of national labor unions having
bargaining contracts to the same security standards as members who have access
to secret or classilied material.

   Recommendations contained in the annual report of the com-
mittee for the year 1950 to the House of Representatives, 81st
Congress, 2d session, dated January 2, 1951            :



  The year 1950 has marked a new stage in the struggle against communism in
the United States. The attack upon Korea makes it plain beyond all doubt that
communism has passed beyond the use of subversion to conquer the independent
nations and will now use armed invasion and war. With the Armed Forces of tlie
United States actually pitted in conflict against the legions of international com-
munism, the Communist Party of the United States can no longer be viewed pas-
sively as a group of mere political and ideological dissidents, but must be looked
upon with all seriousness as a military tiftli column actively aiding our enemies.
  Yet, today we tind many of these potential fifth columnists employed in our
leading defense plants, making weaiions to be used against the Communist
armies which they are pledged to support. To remove these peisons from posi-
tions whei'e they could sabotage our defense production, there was included in
the Wood-McCarran Communist-control bill a section which prohibits employ-
ment of Communist Party members in defense plants designated as such by the
Secretary of Defense. The committee recommends that the Congress adopt a
resolution calling upon the Secretary of Defense to innnediately place in effect
the provisions of section 5 of Public Law 831, <Slst Congress.
   The operations of the Smith Act and the Subversive Activities Control Act
of lOriO, and the various Communist cases before the courts should be made
the subject of continuing study during the coming year, with a view to deter-
mine their effectiveness and the adoption of constantly improved methods of
restricting the operations of the Communist fifth column.       We caiuiot afford
to allow ourselves to become hopelessly enmeshed in outworn legal technicalities
wliich oftentimes serve to give protection and encouragement to a ni(jst insidious
internal foe.   We must streamline our legal maciiinery to meet the present
eioergency, which poses legal problems never envisaged by our Founding Fathers.
   Loopholes in the pi'esent laws and in pritceduie before congressional com-
mittees, which Communist lawyers are quick to exploit, should be plugged up.
The committee recommends that the Congress seriously consider authorizing
the use of technical evidence secured during the course of investigations in-
volving espionage, treason, or other crimes involving the security of the United
States, to intercept and use as evidence in any criminal proceeding information
obtained as the result of a technical surveillance.
   Loth in the courts and in hearings before imv committee, the informative
value of testimony by those who have actually been inside the Communist move-
ment, either as undercover agents or as former party mtniibers. has liecn in-
creasingly demonstrated. In the light of the present world situation and tlie
possible aggravation of the Communist problem, it can be expected that leual
prosecutions will increase, making the services of qualified witnesses more and
more indispensable in i>uiiding up evidence. Thought should be given to ways
and means of stimulating defections from the Communist movement and of
encouraging qualified infoimants.
   In connection with hearings dealing with local 74 of the AFL Lai)orers'
Union, it was brought out that those fiperating under the discipline and dis'ec-
tion of the Ccmimunist Party went through the (irocess of formally resigning
from the party and then signing the non-Conmiunist ;iffidavit, in order to comply
with the provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. A number of cases of this kind
have been brought to the attention of the committee. Tlie incoming Congress
shcmld study the advisability of amending the act in order to make such evasion
illegal and impossible.

  Recommendations contained in the annual report of the com-
mittee for the year 1951 to the House of Representatives, 82d
Congress, 1st session, dated February 17, 1952:
  The committee feels that, in line with the findings on Soviet espionage in the
United States as reflected in the committee report. The Shameful Years, it is
necessary that positive steps be taken to stem Soviet espionage. It is felt that
Congress must take the initial steps to ascertain what legislation is necessary
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 141
 to afford adequate protection against espionage.      In the course of such congres-
 sional study, it would be necessary to ascertain whether the existing laws relat-
 ing to esjiionage have been properly enforced and, if not, proper responsibility
                                                  ;


 should be afhxed.
    The counuittee suggests that among the phases Congress should consider in
 titrenutheiiing espionage legislation are:
    A single comprehensive espionage statute applicable to both peacetime and
          —
 wartime. This should incorporate the present provisions of wartime espionage
 statutes, carrying a capital-punishment sentence.        The statute of limitations
 would not then apply in espionage any more than it applies to other crimes
 carrying a capital punishment, 'i'he provisions of legislation dealing with the
 iinauihori/.ed taking of classified Government papers and documents should be
 broadened to include the transportation of such papers and documents in inter-
state or foreign commerce.
                                                                  —
    The broadening of the rules of a<lmissibility of evidence. The committee is
fjlso aware that the executive branch of the Government is seriously being
 hampered in the prosecution of persons engaged in espionage because of the
present limitations on evidence that may be presented in the courts. The com-
 mittee realizes that the restrictions against the admissibility of evidence secured
 from wire tapping has been imposed to protect the rights of the individual. The
committee, while desiring to maintain all of the rights of the individual, feels
 that the rights of the individual can be preserved only if the national security
 remains. It is the committee's opinion that, if Soviet espionage continues un-
checked, the rights of American citi/.ens are being placed in graver danger than
would he the case with legalized wire tapping. The committee suggests, there-
fore, that Congress consider legislation to permit as evidence the results of wire
tapping in matters affecting the national security as well as in such crimes as
kidnaping and extortion. In order that a proper control might be exercised, it
is felt that, as in the matter of arrests, searches, and .seizures, tlie judicial branch
of the Government should be empowered to authorize the use of such techniques.
   ImmuJiity for icitnesses appearing before congressional, executive, or judicial
Jiearings.
          —   The committee also feels that, since it is essential to any investiga-
tion, whether it be congressional, executive, or judicial, to have the testimony
of competent and informed witnesses, legislation should be enacted to eft"ect a
greater latitude in gi-anting immunity from prosecution to these witnesses.
   The committee has frequently experienced instances where witnesses while
liaving information of undoubted value to the work of the committee, have
refused to answer questions on the basis that to do so might tend to incriminate
them. If such legislation as suggested by the committee were enacted, it would,
while maintaining the rights of the individual, permit the proper investigative
bodies to gather a true and compi-ehensive picture of the information they .seelj.
                                                                           —
   Reciprocal restrictions on travel by Soviet and satellite diplomats. The com-
mittee's investigations have also disclosed that iSoviet espionag has been assisted
by the fact that Soviet nationals have been given unlimited freedom to travel
throughout the United States and to and from Canada and Mexico. The com-
mittees reports dealing with Soviet espionage show that Soviet officials have
abused this freedom to actively engage in espionage operations. This situation
exists even though United States diplomats in Russia and her satellites are
virtually under h(mse arrest and under constant surveillance by the Russian
secret police. There have been instances in which United States officials have
lieen prohibited from contact with American nationals who were being held by
authorities in Soviet countries.
   For these reasons, the committee feels that there should be reciprocal restric-
tions enforced by this country with the Soviet and satellite countries.
   The committee also feels that, in order to afford a greater national security,
foreign nationals entering the United States should be required to surrender
their pas.sports and/or visas at the point of entry and that these papers should
not be returned until the departure of the individual from the United States
                          —
   Issuance of passports. The committee reconuiiends that all persons securing
passports must, at the time the iiassport application is executed, state under
oath whether they will or will not visit any of the presently so-called Iron Cur-
tain countries.
   The c<nnmittee also recommends that if, in the course of travel abroad, any
person holding a passport finds it necessary to visit an Iron Curtain country,
and did not indicate that he intended to visit an Iron Curtain country on his
original application, he must obtain authority to make such a visit from either
a consular oflScer of the United States, the proper Ambassador, or a specified
member of the consular or ambassadorial staffs.
142 ANNUAL REPORT, COIVIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   A similar provision, such as that set forth in paragraph 2 of this section,
should also be ma<le applicable to all persons holding passports who desire to
visit any other country exclusive of Iron Curtain countries and who have not
indicated their intention to visit these other countries on the original passport
application.
   It is hoped that these provisions will prevent American Communists from
receiving instructions from abroad. It is a well-know^n fact that American
Communists often travel abroad for the purpose of receiving instructions from
Communist functionaries, not only in the Iron Curtain countries but in other
European countries as well.
   Cancellation of pa sspo'ts.— The committee in the past has experienced several
instances in which persons for whom subpenas have been issued are found to
be outside the United States and the subpenas cannot be served upon them.
The committee recognizes the fact that a person might endeavor to use a pro-
longed absence from the country as a means to evade appearance before this,
as well as other congressional committees.
   It is believed that in order to cope with such situations legislation should be
enacted to provide for the cancellation of the passports in the possession of
any United States citizen in a foreign country for whom a subpena is out-
standing within 6 months of the date upon which he receives personal notifica-
tion that such subpena is outstanding,    ^iotice would be made by an accredited
official designated by the United States Department of State.
                                                          —
   Revocations of covinii^sions in the armed services. The connnittee, during its
hearings, has had the unfortunate experience of having had before it witnesses
who, while holding commissions in the armed services of the United States,
have refused to affirm or deny allegations of membership in the Communist Party
or Communist-front organizations. The committee is aware that a commission
in the armed services of the United States is a privilege accorded to citizens
of the United States of unquestioned loyalty and not an inherent right provided
for in the Constitution.    This being the case, the committee reconmiends that
in any instance where a person holding a commission in the armed services
chooses to refuse to answer questions concerning his present or pasl membership
in the Communist Party, such commission shall be immediately revoked.

  Recommendations contained in the annoa! report of the com-
mittee for the year 1952 to the House of Representatives, 82d
Congress, 2d session, dated December 28, 1952
                                                      ^
                                                              :



  It will be recognized that many of these recommendations have been enacted
into law. Among those which have not been enacted are some that should
be given early attention by Congress so that our country might have the legal
channels necessary for our own protection in these critical times. Legislation
must be enacted that will cover the present serious situation in wliich, through
our repre.sentation in the United Nations, our Armed Forces are combating
an enemy, although technically we ai"e not in a state of war.
   Since our espionage and internal security legislation is now gaged upon times
of war and peace, these distinctions should be removed in order that war
measures may be enforced during this and similar critical times.
   In matters dealing with internal security, it is believed necessary that emer-
gency powers of the executive branch of the Government be placed on a wartime
basis in periods such as now exist.
  As a result of the connnittee's findings regarding the extent of Communist
infiltration into vital defense areas, the committee is of the opinion that it
must again, and more forcibly, recommend, as it did on January 2, 1951, that
the Congress adopt a resolution calling upon the Secretary of Defense to im-
mediately place into effect the provisions of section 5 of Public Law 831 of
the 81st Congress, which states in part   :


  "Sec. 5. (a) When a Communist organization, as defined in paragraph (5) of
section 3 of this title, is registered or there is in effect a final order of the Board
requiring such organization to register, it shall be unlawful     —
       "(1) For any member of such organization, with knowledge or notice that
     such organizati(m is so registered or that such order has become final:
       "
         ( A) In seeking, accepting, or holding any nonelective office or employment
     under the United States, to conceal or fail to disclose the fact that he is a
     member of such organization or  ;




  '
    In the annual report for the year 1952. the House Committee on Un-American Activities
also reprinted the recommendations of the committee in previous sessions of Congress In
order to bring the entire matter clearly before the American people and Congress.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AJSIERICAN ACTIVITIES 143

       "(B) To hold any nonelective offlce or employment under the United
     States; or
       "(C) In seeking, accepting, or holding employment in any defense facility,
     to conceal or fail to disclose the fact that he is a member of such organ-
     izaticm or
             ;


       "(D) If such organization is a Communist-action organization, to engage
     in anv employment in any defense facility.
        "(2) For any officer or employee of the United States or of any defense
     facility, with knowledge or notice that such organization is so registered
                                                                                or
     that such order has become final  :



        "(A) To contribute funds or services to such organization; or
        "(B) To advise, counsel, or urge any person, with knowledge or notice that
     such person is a member of such organization to perform, or to omit to
     perform, any act if such act or omission would constitute a violation of
     any provision of subparagraph (1) of this subsection.
   "(b) The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to designate and
proclaim, and from time to time revise, a list of facilities, as defined in paragraph
(7) of section 3 of this title, with respect to the operation of which he finds and
determines that the security of the United States requires the application of the
provisions of subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary shall cause such
list as designated and proclaimed, or any revision thereof, to be promptly
published in the Federal Register, and shall promptly notify the management
of any facility so listed whereupon such management shall immediately post
                          ;



conspicuously^ and thereafter while so listed keep posted, notice of such
designation in such form and in such place or places as to give reasonable notice
thereof to all employees of, and to all applicants for employment in, such
facility."
  Paragraph 5 of section 3, referred to above, reads as follows        :



  "(5) The term 'Communist organization' means a Communist-action organ-
ization or a Communist-front organization."
   Paragraph 7 of section 3 referred to above reads as follows  :



   "(7) The term 'facility' means any plant, factory, or other manufacturing pro-
ducing or service establishment, airport, airport facility, ves.sel, pier, water-front
facility, mine, railroad, mblie utility, laboratory, station, or other establishment
or facility, or any part, aivision, or department of any of the foregoing. The
term 'defense facility' means any facility designated and proclaimed by the
Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 5 (b) of this title and included on the
list published and currently in effect under such subsection, and which is in com-
pliance with the provisions of such subsection respecting the posting of notice
of such designation."
   The committee finds it again necessary to recommend legislation which would
broaden the rules of admissibility of evidence. The security agencies are being
seriously hampered in successful prosecution of violations of our espionage
and internal-security statutes by their inability to place into testimony evi-
dence that has been secured through use of wiretapping and similar investi-
gative techniques.
   One of the most important recommendations, in a matter which has been
sadly lacking in the past few years, was made by the committee on March 15,
1950. calling for the fullest cooperation between the legislative and executive
arms of the Government in the matter of dealing with subversive activities.
It is a tragedy that during the past few years this cooperation has been for
the most [)art one-sided in that it was only congressional committees which
were furnishing information to agencies of the executive branch. The strongest
demonstration of the benefits of such cooperation is the case of William Walter
Remington in which, through the sole and tireless efforts of this committee,
sufficient information was secured to enable the executive branch to obtain
an indictment against Remington.
   The committee further recommends that it be made a crime for any person
or persons to unauthorizedly transport in interstate commerce any Government
document falling within a secret, confidential, restricted, or top-secret
classification.
   It is also recommended that the Civil Service Act be amended to provide that
Government employees under the Civil Service Act who are employed in the
United States or Territories must be citizens of the United States or owe alle-
giance to the United States.
SUBSEQUENT ACTION TAKEN BY CONGRESS OR EXECU-
   TIVE AGENCIES ON PAST RECOMMENDATIONS
RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN ANNUAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE,                            7   7TH
         CONGRESS, 1ST SESSION, DATED JANUARY 3, 1941
Deportation
    1.                                      —
      Cominittee recommendation. The enactment of legislation to
bring about the immediate mandatory deportation of alien spies and
saboteurs (Januarys, 1941).
                —
   Action. Section 22 "Sec. 4" of the Internal Security Act of 1950
(64 Stat. 1008) as repealed (66 Stat. 279 § 403 (a) (16)) and super-
seded by section 241 (a) (6) (F) (G) (H), (17) of the McCarran-
W  alter Immigration Act of June 27, 1952 (66 Stat. 204-208) provides         ,

for tlie mandatory deportation of aliens who advocate or who are
affiliated with any organization which advocates sabotage, and aliens
who are convicted of violating or of conspiring to violate certain
specified espionage acts.    For text of this section see appendix,
page     177.
  2.                                        —
      Committee recommendation. The mandatory deportation of
aliens who advocate any basic change in the form of our Government
(January 3, 1941).
                —
   Action. Section 22 "Sec. 4" of the Internal Security Act of 1950
(64 Stat. 1008) as repealed (66 Stat. 279 §403 (a) (16)) and super-
seded by section 241 (a) (6) (D) (F) (G) (PI) of the McCarran-
W  alter Immigration Act of June 27, 1952 (66 Stat. 204-207) provides        ,

for the mandatory deportation of aliens who advocate or who are
affiliated with any organization which advocates the economic, inter-
national, and governmental doctrines of world communism, the estab-
lishment of a totalitarian dictatorship in the United States, or the
overthrow of the Government by unconstitutional means. For text
of this section see appendix, page 177.

Citizenship of Federal employees
   3. Committee recomnnendation.           —
                                      The enactment of legislation re-
quiring that all employees and officials of our Federal Government be
American citizens (January 3, 1941)
                —                              .



   Action. Although no legislation has been enacted to alter the citi-
zenship provisions which are carried in the various appropriation acts
(e. g., § 1302 of Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1954, Public Law
                                       ^
207, 83d Cong., 67 Stat. 435), a bill    (S. 84, dated January 6, 1941)
was introduced in the 77th Congress, and again (S. 521, dated Janu-
ary 21, 1943) in the 78th Congress, providing that only citizens shall
be eligible to hold civil positions under the United States within the
continental United States, and that appointment of an alien to, or
acceptance by an alien of, such a position shall be punished by a fine
of from $50 to $5,000. For text of § 1302 of Supplemental Appropria-
tion Act, 1954, see appendix, page 183.
Federal aid to educational institutions
  4. Committee recommendation.              —
                                      Withhold all Federal financial
support from any educational institution which permits members of its
  1 Mention of
                any bill pending before Congress In this section of the annual report does
not constitute endorsement or recommendation of the bill by this committee.
         144
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON           UN-A]VIERICAN ACTIVITIES 145

                                                         a substitute for
faculty to advocate communism, fascism, or nazism as
our form of government to the student body of these educational in-
stitutions (January 3, 1941).
          —
  Action. Section 228 of the Veterans^ Readjustment Assistance Act
                                                  of an education and
of 1952 (06 Stat. G67) prohibits the payment
training  allowance  to any eligible veteran who enrolls  for any course
in an educational institution which is listed by the Attorney General
as totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, or subversive.    For text of this
section, see appendix,     page   181.

Outlawing   political organizations under foreign control
  5. Coniniittee recommendation.         —
                                   The enactment of legislation to
outlaw every political organization which is shown to be under the
control of a foreign              (January
  Action.   —Althoughgovernment                1941).
                                                    3,
                       no legislation has been enacted, there are 3      bills
now pending          83d Congress on this subject:
                  in the
  6. 200, dated January 7, 1953, and H. R. 59U, dated June 25, 1953,
outlaw the Communist Party (under its present name or under any
name it may use in the future) or any other organization whose pur-
pose is to overthrow the Government of the United States. A fine
                                                                    of
not more than $10,000, imprisonment of not more than 10 years, or
both, plus forfeiture of citizenship, are imposed upon members of such
party.
  n. R. 1576, dated January 13, 1953, prohibits the printing of the
name of a member of the Communist Party or any un-American party
on any ballot for an office in the Government of the United States.
Provides a penalty for violation thereof, of a fine up to $25,000 and
up to 10 years imprisonment.
Refusal of foreign countries to accept deportees
  6. Cowmittee recommendation.
                                         —
                                     The enactment of legislation to
stop all immigration  from  foreign countries that refuse to accept the
return of their nationals found under American law to be deportable
from this country (January 3, 1941).
  Action.—SQcWow 22 "Sec. 7" of the Internal Security Act of 1950
(64 Stat. 1009) as repealed (66 Stat. 279, §403 (a) (16) and super-
seded by section 243 (g) of the McCarran-W alter Immigration Act
of June 27, 1952 (66 Stat. 214), provides that when any country re-
fuses to accept the return of an alien who is a national or resident
thereof, the consular officers in such country shall discontinue the is-
suance of immigrant visas to the nationals or residents of such country
until such country accepts such alien.     For text of this section see
appendix, page 180.
Distribution of totalitarian propaganda
  7. Committee recommendation.
                                         —
                                     The passage of added legislation to
place restrictions on the distribution of totalitarian propaganda, when
that distribution involves any cost to the           American taxpayers, and
when such propaganda emanates and            is   shipped from foreign sources
(January       1941).
  Action.   — Section
             3,
                      10 of the Internal Security Act of 1950(64 Stat.
996) makes it unlawful for a Communist organization, which is regis-
tered with the Attorney General, to transmit publications through the
mail unless such publication and its wrapper have printed on them:
"Disseminated by         a Communist organization," with the name
                             ,
146 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

of the organization appearing in lieu of the blank. This section also
makes it unlawful for such an organization to broadcast over any
radio or television station in the United States unless the program is
preceded by an announcement that it is sponsored by a Communist
organization, giving the name of such organization.
                                                       For text of this
section, see appendix,   page   162.

Revocation of naturalization       —
                                   Statutory period
  8. Committee recommendation.
                                       —
                                     That the statutory period during
which citizenship papers can be revoked under existing law be ex-
tended to at least 10 years (January 3, 1941)  ,



  Action.— I. Act of June 30, 1951 (65 Stat. 107, c. 194) set the limita-
tion for prosecution of actions for knowingly procuring naturalization
in violation of law (18 U. S. C. § 1425) at io years.   For text of this
act and of 18 U. S. C. § 1425, see appendix, pages 168 and 184, respec-
tively.
   II. Section 340 (a) of the      McCarran-W alter Immigration Act      of
June                          provides that conviction of a person for
        27, 1952 (66 Stat. 260),
contempt of Congress for refusal to testify, within a period of 10 years
following his naturalization, concerning his subversive activities, shall
be ground for revocation of his naturalization. For text of this
section see appendix, page 180.
                   —
Passport fraud Limitation of prosecution
  9. Committee recommendation.
                                       —
                                 That the statute of limitations with
regard to passports fraudulently obtained be extended from 3 to 7
years (January 3, 1941).
  Action—Act of June 30, 1951 (65 Stat. 107, c. 194) sets the limita-
tion  for prosecution of actions regarding passport offenses (18
U. S. C. §§ 1423-1428, 1541-1544) at 10 years. For text of this act and
of these code sections, see appendix, pages 168 and 184-186, respec-
tively.

Employment     in defense facilities or in Gvernment service
  10.                                  —
      Committee recommendation. A policy that employment in na-
tional-defense industries or the Government service be denied to any
person who has been and is now active in any political organization
which is found to be under the control and guidance of a foreign gov-
ernment (January 3, 1941).
            —
  Action. Section 5 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (64 Stat.
992) provides that members of Communist organizations registered
with the Attorney General shall not hold employment in the Federal
Government; that members of a Communist-action organization shall
not hold employment in a defense facility; and that members of a
Communist-front organization must disclose such membership when
seeking or holding employment in a defense facility. For text of this
section see appendix, page 159.

RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN ANNUAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE,            7   9TH
          CONGRESS, 2D SESSION, DATED JANUARY 2, 194 7
Independent commission on Federal loyalty
  11. Committee recommendation.            —
                                       That Congress create an inde-
pendent  commission  with authority  to investigate and to order the dis-
charge of any employee or official of the Federal Government whose
loyalty to the United States is found to be in doubt (January 2, 1947),
      ANTSrUAL REPORT,   COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 147

  Action.    —
            Although no legishition was enacted, several steps in that
•directionhave been made under Executive Order lOlibO ( 18 F. R. 2489),


issued on April -27, 1953. which establishes a security program for the
Federal departments and agencies. Sections 1 and 6 of this order pro-
vide for summary suspension by agency heads, of employees con-
sidered to be poor security risks, followed by termination of their em-
ployment if found to be advisable in the interest of national security
upon the results of proper investigation. Section 9 of this order pro-
vides for a central clearance by means of a security-investigation in-
dex to be maintained in the Civil Service Commission, covering all
persons as to whom security investigations have been conducted by
any agency, and to contain all identifying information which the
heads of agencies shall immediately furnish to the Civil Service Com-
mission. For text of sections 1, 6, and 9 of this order see appendix,
pages 187-189.
  There is a bill now pending in the 83d Congress {8. 78, dated Janu-
ary 7, 1953) which creates a bipartisan Loyalty Review Board as an
independent executive agency, whose certification that reasonable
doubts exist as to the loyalty of a Federal employee shall constitute
authority for the dismissal of the employee.
Publication of names of foreign agents
  12. Committee recommendation.     —  That the Department of State
and the Department of Justice be required to publicize every 6 months
the names and identity of all agents of any foreign governments who
are in the United States for either diplomatic, commercial, or other
purposes (January 2, 1947).
             —
  Action. Althoujzh no legislation has been enacted, the Senate
passed S. 2611 on March 24, 1952. A similar bill (S. 37, dated Janu-
ary 6. 1953) is now pending in the 83d Congress. It provides that no
person who is engaged as a public-relations counsel, publicity agent,
or information-service employee, or who is engaged in the preparation
or dissemination of political propaganda, shall be recognized as a duly
accredited diplomatic or consular officer of a foreign govermnent,
and shall therefore not be exempt from registration under the Foreign
Agents Registration Act, as amended (22 U. S. C. 013), which act
makes such registration a public record (22 U. S. C. 616).
Subversive Matters Division in Department of Justice
  13. Committee recom^mendation.    —
                                  That the Department of Justice
be required by law to establish within the Department a special
division devoted to the prosecution of subversive elements now operat-
ing in the United States (January 2, 1947).
             —
  Action. Although no legislation has been enacted, there is a bill
{S. 2600, dated August 3, 1953) now pending in the 83d Congress,
which provides for the appointment of an additional Assistant At-
torney General who shall perform all duties imposed upon the At-
torney General with respect to all statutes pertaining to espionage,
sabotage, treason, sedition, and subversive activities.
Foreign agents' registration
  14. Committee recommendation.     — That the Attorney General be
instructed by a proper resolution of the House, to report to the House
the number of prosecutions instituted under the Voorhis Act and the
McCormack Foreign Agents Registration Act (January 2, 1947).
148 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Action.   —Although no legislation was enacted, a             bill    {H. R. 6554,
dated   May     13, 1948)   was introduced
                                      in the 80th Congress, which di-
rected the Attorney General to submit to Congress a detailed report of
the efforts by the Department of Justice to enforce, among other acts,
the Voorhis Act and the McCormack Act.                A
                                                similar act was intro-
duced in the 81st Congress (//. R. 188, dated January 3, 1949), and on
August 25, 1950, the Attorney General submitted a report to Congress,
on the administration of the Foreign Agents Registration Act (the
McCormack Act) for the 5-year period from January 1, 1945, to Decem-
ber 31, 1949 (96 Congressional Record 13528, 13802).
Federal employment and office in labor unions limited to citizens
  15. Committee recoTnmendations.           —
                                      That legislation should be en-
acted that would restrict Federal employment to citizens of the United
States and that only citizens be permitted to hold office in any labor
union subject to Federal laws (January 2, 1947)
  Action.   —None.      See item   3,   above.
                                                          .




Deportation and exclusion of alien subversives
  16. Committee recommendation.            —
                                   That legislation be enacted re-
quiring that all alien Communists and other subversive aliens be
promptly deported and that the Immigration Service maintain a
stringent screening process to restrain the present influx of aliens into
the United States and to determine whether tlieir political background
is inimical to the best interests of the United States (January 2, 1947).
            —
   Action. I. Section 22 "Sec. 4" of the Internal Security Act of
1950 (64 Stat. 1008) as repealed (66 Stat. 279, § 403 (a) (16)) and
superseded by section 241 (a) (6) of the         M
                                               cC arran-W alter Immigra-
tion Act of June 27, 1952 (66 Stat. 205), provides for deportation of
aliens affiliated with the Communist Party and other subversive aliens.
For text of this section, see appendix, page 177.
   II. Section 22 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (64 Stat. 1006)
as repealed (66 Stat. 279, § 403 (a) (16)) and superseded by sec-
tion 212 (a) (28) of the       M
                              cC arran-W alter Immigration Act of June
27, 1952 (66 Stat. 184), provides for the exclusion of aliens with
political backgrounds which are inimical to the welfare of the United
States.   For text of this section, see aj^pendix, page 168.
   III. Chapter 4 of the McC arran-W alter Imtnigration Act of June
27, 1952 (66 Stat. 195-204), provides for a stringent screening process.
For text of this provision, see appendix, page 170.
Restriction of tax-exemption privileges of                    Communist educa-
  tional and charitable organizations
  17.   C 07nmittee   recommendation.      —Legislation should be enacted to
restrict the benefits of certain tax-exem])tion pi-ivileges            now extended
to a   number of Communiist  fronts posing as educational, charitable,
and relief organizations (January 2, 1947)        .



  .4c^;o/?.— Section 11 (b) of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (64
Stat. 997) denies income-tax exemptions under § 101 of the Internal
Revenue Code, to Communist organizations required to register under
§ 7 of the Internal Security Act.   For text of these sections, see a]>
pendix, pages 162 and 186.
Second-class mailing privileges of foreign embassies
  18. Committee recommendation.             —
                                       That the House request, by
proper resolution, a report from the Postmaster General of the United
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 149

States, setting forth the number of embassies or foreign agencies
now    enjoying second-class mailing privileges and also specifically
identifying such agencies where the respective foreign governments
do not accord to our embassies, ministers, and other United States
officials equal mailing privileges in those countries, and that proper

legislation be enacted by Congress limiting the use of second-class
nuxiling privileges to such embassies and agencies of those foreign
governments which extend reciprocal privileges to the United States
Government (January
             —           2, 1947).
  Action. No legislation, but reciprocity is being enforced by the
State Department. An illustration appears in Department of State
Press Release No. 680, issued December 31, 1953, containing the text
of a note delivered to the Rumanian Legation, in which the Secretary
of State notified the Legation to cease the publication in the United
States of the Rumanian News and other similar pamphlets published
at the expense of the Rumanian Government. This step was taken
because the Rumanian Government had on December 29, 1953, banned
the distribution in Rumania of a publication issued by our Legation
in Bucharest entitled "News From America." For text of press re-
lease, seeappendix, page 195.
  There are now pending in the 83d Congress, two bills {11. J. Res. 73,
dated January 3, 1953, and H. J. Res. HO, dated January 9, 1953)
which declare that the policy of the United States is to withhold from
representatives of any foreign nation any privilege withheld from
representatives of the United States in such nation.
English translation of foreign-language newspapers
  19. Committee recoinmendafion.   —
                                  That legislation be enacted      for-
bidding the use of the United States mails under second-class mailing
privileges to any and all newspapers and periodicals printed in any
langnage other than English, which do not carry a full English
translation, in parallel columns, next to the foreign-language context
(January 2, 1947).
             —
  Action. No legislation.
Denial of second-class mailing privileges to subversive organiza-
      tions
  20.                              —
       Committee recominemlation. That legislation be enacted deny-
ing the use of second-class mailing privileges to any groups of persons
or organizations engaged in the publication, distribution, or pro-
motion of subversive or un-American propaganda (January 2, 1947).
             —
  Action. No legislation, but a bill was introduced in the 82d Con-
gress (S. 3174 dated May 14, 1952) which directed the Postmaster
General to deny second-class and bulk-rate third-class mailing priv-
ileges to agents of Communist controlled or dominated governments.
Secret membership in organizations
  21. Committee recommendation.    — Legislation designed to prohibit
membersliip in any organization using the LTnited States mails or
subject to Federal laws, by persons using an alias or assumed name.
Such legislation should also include a provision which would clearly
ban concealed or secret memberships in any such organizations (Janu-
ary 2, 1947).
              —
  Action. Section 8 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (G4 Stat.
D95) provides for registration with the Attorney General of indi-
Tiduals who are members of Communist-action organizations, and
150 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

section 15 (b) of same act (64 Stat. 1003) imposes a penalty of
$10,000 fine or 5-year imprisonment or both, for false statement on
such registration form. For text of these sections, see appendix, pages
161 and 167, respectively.

RECOMMENDx\TIONS CONTAINED IN ANNUAL RErORT OF COMMITTEE, 80TH
           CONGRESS, 2D SESSION, DATED DECEMBER 31, 194 8

Mundt-Nixon      bill
  22. Committee recommendation.     —Legislation modeled substantially
after the so-called Mundt-Nixon bill (December 31, 1948).
  Action.— TliQ provisions of the Mundt-Nixon bill (H. R. 5852, 80th
Cong.) have been incorporated in the Internal Security Act of 1950
in the following sections, given in the order in which a similar pro-
vision appeared in the Mundt-Nixon bill: Sections 7-10 (64 Stat.
993-996), section 5 (64 Stat. 992), section 6 (64 Stat. 993), sections
12-13 (64 Stat. 997-1001), section 14 (64 Stat. 1001), section 11 (64
Stat. 996-997).   For text of these sections, see appendix, pages
159-167.

Deportation of aliens upon conviction of crimes against United
    States
  23. Committee recommendation.        —
                                      That the espionage law^s of the
United States be substantially strengthened with special attention
to means for returning aliens to other countries upon conviction for
crimes against the United States (December 31, 1948).
          —
  Action. Section 241 (a) (17) of the      M cC arran-W alter Immigra-
tion Act of June 27, 1952 (66 Stat. 207), substantially strengthens the
laws concerning depoi'tation of aliens on conviction for crimes against
the United States by listing specific acts, the violation of wdiich shall
be grounds for deportation. Among these acts are: The Espionage
Act of 1917 (40 Stat. 217) as amended (40 Stat. 553), the espionage
provisions of the Criminal Code ( 18 U. S. C. §§ 791, 792, 793, 794, 2388,
3241), the sabotage provisions of the Criminal Code (18 U. S. C.
§§2151-2156), the Selective Service Act of 1948 (62 Stat. 604), the
Universal Military Training and Service Act (65 Stat. 75), and
several others.  For text of tins section, see appendix, page 178.
Penalty for Contempt of Congress
  24. Committee recommendation.     —That the penalties for those prop-
erly cited for contempt of Congress   be increased to a minimum of 5
years in prison and a $5,000 fine (December 31, 1948).
  Action.   —No legislation enacted.
Study of immigration laws
  25. Committee recommendation.        —
                                      That our immigration laws and
passport visa regulations be carefully studied to determine what
changes are necessary to prevent disloyal elements from entering this        -




country and remaining here (December 31, 1948.)
  Actioii.  —
            Section 401 (a) of the McCarran-W alter Im,migration
Act of June 27. 1952 (66 Stat. 274), provides for the Joint Committee
on Immigration and Nationality Policy, which is to conduct a con-
tinuing study of the administration of the act and its effect on the
national security, etc., of the United States. The Secretary of State
and the Attorney General are required to submit all regulations, etc.,
requested by the commitee pertaining to administration of the act, and       ,
     ANNUAL REPORT, COMIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                ACTIVITIES 151

the Secretary of State sliall consult with the committee from time to
time.  For text of this section, see appendix, pages 18U-181.

RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN ANNUAE REEORT OF COMMITTEE,               8   1ST
                 CONGRESS, 1ST SESSION, DATED   MARCH   15, 195

Statute of Limitations in espionage cases
  26. Cominittee recommendation.       —
                                   That the statute of limitations
in espionage cases be     amended (March 15, 1950).
  Action.    —   Sections 4 (e) and 19 of the Internal Security Act (64
Stat. 992, 1005) provide for a 10-year statute of limitations for a viola-
tion of certain provisions of law concerning espionage, other than
violations constituting a capital offense. This replaces the 3-year
statute of limitations (18 U. S. C. 3282) which would otherwise pre-
vail.  For text of these sections, see appendix, pages 159 and 167.
Legal definition of treason
  27. Committee recomme^idation.       —
                                      That legal definition of treason
and the penalties attached thereto be broadened to cover a period like
the present cold war (March 15, 1950).
             —
  Action. No legislation enacted, but two bills are now pending in
the 83d Congress (H. J. Res. 8, H. J. Res. 45, both dated January 3,
1953) which propose a constitutional amendment to broaden the clefi-
nition of "treason" to include adhering to any group which advocates
the overthrow^ by force or violence of the Government of the United
States, or collaborating with any agent of a foreign nation in working
for the overthrow or weakening of the Government of the United
States, whether or not by force or violence.
Activities of Communist country embassies
  28. Committee recommendation.        —
                                       That activities of embassies of
Comnumist-dominated countries be limited by proper safeguards
sternly enforced (March 15, 1950).
             —
  Action. This now being enforced bj^ the State Department and re-
strictions on diplomatic personnel are generally a matter of reciprocity
with the various foreign countries. On March 10, 1952, the State
Department issued a press release (No. 181) which contains the text
of a note from the Secretary of State to the Ambassador of the
U. S. S. R., restricting the travel of Soviet officials in the United States
to a 25-mile radius from their base office, without prior permission
from the State Department. This action was retaliatory for restric-
tions placed upon travel of American diplomatic and consular officials
in the Soviet Union. For text of Press Release No. 181. see appendix,
page 193.
Employment of subversives in defense plants safeguards  —
   29. Committee recommendation.       — xVdoption of H. R. 3903 (81st
Cong.) providing for safeguards against employment of subversive
individuals in defense plants (March 15, 1950).
             —
  Action. Section 5 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (64 Stat.
992) provides that members of a Communist-action organization shall
not hold employment in a defense facility, and that members of a
Communist-front organization must disclose such membership when
152 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

seeking or holding employment in a defense facility.   For   text of this
section, see appendix, page 159.
Detention of undeportahle alien Communists
  30. CoTnmittee recomTnendation.    —
                                     H. R. 10 (81st Cong.), providing
for the supervision and detention of undeportahle aliens, should be
enacted into law in order to deal with thousands of alien Communists
refused acceptance by the country of their birth (March 15, 1950).
             —
  Action. Section 23 "Sec. 20 (b)" of the Internal Security Act of
1950 (64 Stat. 1011) and the Act of June 18, 1952 (66 Stat. 138 c. 442),
as (both) repealed and superseded by section 242 (c)-(h) of the
M cC arran-W alter Imrrvigration Act (66 Stat. 210-212) provides for
detention and supervision of such aliens. For text of this section, see
appendix, pages 178-180.
Committee Quorum
  31, Committee recommendation.      —
                                   Enactment of legislation creating
a presumption of law that a committee quorum, once established, con-
tinues to exist.
             —
  Action. No legislation enacted.
Subversive activities     —Cooperation between branches of Govern-
       ment
     32,   Committee   recommendation. — Modification of the Executive
order in loyalty and investigation cases, to assure the fullest coopera-
tion between legislative and executive arms of the Government in the
matter of dealing with subversive activities (March 15, 1950),
   Action.— ThQ Presidential directive of March 13, 1948 (13 F. R.
1359), which provides a confidential status for Federal employee
loyalty records, has not been modified. However, Executive Order
10491, dated October 13, 1953 (18 F. R. 6583), directs that a Govern-
ment employee's refusal to testify before a congressional committee
regarding charges of his alleged disloyalty or other misconduct, be
taken into consideration when determining whether or not such em-
ployee is a security risk. There is a bill now pending in the S-'kl
Congress (S. 524) directing the release of personnel files of Federal
officers and employees to any congressional committee at the request
of such officers and employees. For text of directive and Executive
order, see appendix, pages 186, 187, and 191.
Officers of labor unions under contract with Atomic Energy
     Commission and armed services
   33. Com,7nittee recommendation.   —In connection with national de-
fense contracts involving secret and classified work for the Atomic
Energy Commission, the Army, Navy, and Air Force, legislation
should be enacted wdiich subjects officers of national labor unions
having bargaining contracts to the same security standards as members
who have access to secret or classified material (March 15, 1950),
             —
   Action. Although no legislation has been enacted, there are two
bills now pending in the 83d Congress (S. 1254, dated March 9, 1953,
and H. R, 3993, dated March 16, 1953) which provide for elimination
of Communists from positions of influence and control in laboi- unions,
with priority to be given to cases involving unions representing em-
ployees engaged in production for the United States Government.
 _
   H. R. 7187., introduced January 25, 1954, provides for disqualifica-
tion of a union to act as exclusive bargaining agent if it is dominated
by an officer or individual who was ever affiliated with a Communist-
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN          ACTIVITIES 153

action oi'<ranization. An intermediary suspension order shall be issued
during the hearings, to continue in effect pending judicial disposition
of an appeal by a labor union against an adverse ruling by the Sub-
versive Activities Control Board.

RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN ANNUAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE,              8   1ST
           CONGRESS, 2D SESSION, DATED JANUARY 2, 19 51

Secretary of Defense to put into effect section 5 of Internal
     Security Act
   34. Committee recommendation.    —  That Congress adopt a resolution
calling upon the Secretary of Defense to immediately place in effect
the provisions of section 5 of Public Law 831, 81st Congress (Internal
Security Act of 1950, 64 Stat. 992) (January 2, 1951).
          —
   Note. This section provides that members of Communist organi-
zations 'which are registered or with reference to whom there is in
effect a final order requiring registration with the Attorney General
under the act, shall not conceal their membership in such organization
when seeking    or holding employment in a defense facility, and, if
such organizations are Communist-action organizations, such mem-
bers shall not engage in any employment in a defense facility. The
Secretary of Defense shall designate and proclaim a list of facilities,
to which he thinks these provisions should apply in the interests of
our national securit}'    For text of this section, see appendix, page 159.
            —
                            .



  Action. In compliance with the subject statute, the Secretary of
Defense maintains a current and up-to-date list of defense facilities.
This list has not as yet, however, been published in the Federal Regis-
ter because publication would have no present legal consequences.
  Under the statute, when an organization has voluntarily registered
or when the Subversive Activities Control Board has determined it
to be either a Communist-action or a Communist-front organization,
certain consequences follow. Since no organizations have voluntarily
registered and no final order of the Subversive Activities Control
Board is in effect the Department of Defense has not deemed it prudent
to publish a list of vital defense facilities when no immediate purpose
would be served. At such time as there are organizations coming
within the statutory definitions, the Department will be in a position
to publish promptly the required list.
Continuous study of Smith Act and Subversive Activities Control
    Act
  35.                                —
      Co?nmittee recommendation. That the operation of the Smith
Act and the Subversive Activities Control Act be made the subject
of continuous study with a view to their effectiveness and improve-
ment (January 2, 1951).
            —
  Action. These acts are under continuous stud}^ by the House Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities.
Technical surveillance
  36. Committee recommendation.      —
                                    That Congress authorize the use
of technical evidence secured during the course of investigations in-
volving espionage, treason, or other crimes involving the security of
the United States, to intercept and use as evidence in any criminal pro-
ceeding information obtained as the result of technical surveillance
(January
        47400 —2,541951).
                       11
154 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Action.   —Although   no legislation has been enacted, there are             five
bills   now pending in the 83d Congress on   this subject   :



  S. 832 (dated February 6, 1953) H. R. J+08 (dated January 3, 1953)
                                   ,                                                ,

27. R. 477 (dated January 3, 1953), and H. R. 3552 (dated February
26, 1953) provide that information obtained by wiretaj^ping in the
conduct of national security be admissible in evidence only when of-
fered in criminal or civil proceedings involving treason, espionage, etc.
  H. R. 5149 (dated May 12, 1953) provides that information inter-
cepted in national security investigations shall be admissible in evi-
dence in criminal proceedings in any court established by act of
Congress.
Encouragement of qualified informants against Communist
        movement
  37.    C otnmittee                   —
                    recormnendation. ^Ways and means of stimulating
defections    from the Communist movement and of encouraging quali-
fiedinformants (January 2, 1951).
  Action.   —
           Although no legislation has been enacted, a bill was intro-
duced in the 82d Congress (H. R. 5331, dated September 13, 1951)
which authorized the Attorney General to pay awards to any persons
for any information leading to the arrest and conviction of any Com-
munist who has violated any of the internal security laws of the United
States.
Amendment                               —
              of Taft-Hartley Act non-Communist Affidavits
  38. Committee recovimendation.    —
                                    Amendment of Taft-Hartley Act
to make impossible a situation where a union official formally resigns
from the Communist Party and then signs a non-Communist affidavit
(January
  Action.   —Although
              1951).
             2,
                      no legislation has been enacted, a        bill   was   intro-
duced in the 82d Congress (H. E. 4807, dated July 13, 1951) which
provided that the non-Communist affidavit which a union official is now
required to file shall state not only that he is not a Communist now but
also that he has not been affiliated with the Communist Party for the
past 36-month period.

RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN ANNUAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE,                       8   2D
         CONGRESS, 2D SESSION, DATED FEBRUARY 17, 1952
Single espionage statute for peace and war
  39. C OTYimAttee reconrimendation.   —Asingle comprehensive espion-
age statute applicable to both peacetime and wartime, carrying a capi-
tal-punishment sentence (February 17, 1952).
            —
  Action. No legislation enacted.
Technical surveillance
  40. Committee recomm^endation.    — Broadening of the rules of admis-
sibility of evidence to permit as evidence the results of wiretapping in
matters affecting the national security as well as in such crimes as
kidnaping and extortion, and that the judicial branch of the Govern-
ment should be empowered to authorize the use of such techniques
(February 17, 1952).
            —
   Action. Although no legislation has been enacted, there are five
bills now pending in the 83d Congi-ess on this subject.   Four of these
{S. 832, H. R. 408, H. R. 477, and H. R. 3552) provide for the intercep-
     ANISTTJAL      REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AAIERICAN ACTIVITIES 155

tion of such evidence during security investigations, and for the au-
thorization of such interception by a Federal court order, but the use of
such evidence is limited to proceedings involving treason, espionage,
and other subversive acts.     //. R. 5U9, the fifth bill, provides for the
use of the evidence in any criminal proceedings but omits the neces-
sity of a court order for the interception of the information.
Immunity for congressional witnesses
  41. Committee recommendation.       —
                                     Legislation to effect a greater
latitude in granting immunity from prosecution to witnesses appear-
ing before congressional, executive, or judicial hearings (February
17,1952).
  Action.   — Although no legislation has been enacted,    there   is   a bill
now pending          83d Congress, which has already been passed by
                 in the
the Senate (S. 16), which provides immunity for such a witness who
has claimed the privilege against self-incrimination. Makes testi-
mony compulsory under certain circumstances. For text of S. 16, see
appendix, page 183.
Restrictions on travel by Soviet and satellite diplomats
  42. Committee recommendation.      — That reciprocal restrictions be
enforced bv this country on the travel of Soviet and satellite diplomats
(February
  Action.   — Such1952).
              17,
                    restrictions are now being enforced by the State De-
partment, an example being the note of March 10, 1952, from the Sec-
retary of State to the Soviet Ambassador, restricting the travel of
Soviet officials in the United States to a 25-mile raclius from their
base office, without prior permission from the State Department.
This was in retaliation for similar restrictions placed upon the travel
of American diplomatic and consular officials in the Soviet Union.
For text of State Department Press Release No. 181, which contains
the text of this note, see appendix, page 193.
Restriction of American travel in Iron Curtain countries
  43. Committee recommendation.      —That at the time of securing a
passport, an individual be required to state whether or not he intends
to visit a so-called Iron Curtain country, and that if his statement is
in the negative, he be prohibited from later visiting such country
without American consular permission (February 17, 1952)
            —                                                 .



  Action. On May 1, 1952, the State Department issued Press Re-
lease No. 341 in which it announced that all new passports would be
stamped not valid for travel in Iron Curtain countries unless specifi-
cally endorsed by the State Department as valid for such travel. For
text of press release, see appendix, page 195.
  On September 4, 1952, the State Department issued Departmental
Regulation 108.162 (17 F. R. 8013) which forbids issuance of a pass-
port except one limited for direct and immediate return to the United
States, to a person, among others, as to whom, regardless of the formal
state of his affiliation with the Communist Party, there is reason
to believe that he is going abroad to engage in activities which will
advance the Communist movement. For text of this regulation, see
appendix, page 191.
156 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

Cancellation of passport of person under subpena
  44. Committee recommendation.        —
                                     Legislation to provide for the
cancellation of the passport in the possession of any United States
citizen in a foreign country for whom a subpena has been outstanding
for 6 months (February 17, 1952).
  Action.   —No legislation enacted.
Revocation of commission in Armed Forces
  45. Convmittee recommendation.        —
                                     That in any instance where a
person holding  a commission in  the armed  services chooses to refuse
to answer questions concerning his present or past membership in the
Communist Party, such commission shall be immediately revoked
(February 17, 1952).
  Action.   — No action.
NEW RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED           IN   ANNUAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE,
         8   2D CONGRESS, 2D SESSION, DATED DECEMBER     2 8,   19 52


Emergency powers of executive branch       in present period
  46.                               —
       Committee recommendation. In matters dealing with internal
security, that emergency powers of the executive branch of the Gov-
ernment be placed on a wartime basis in periods such as now exist
(December 2S, 1952).
   Action.—Act of June 30, 1953 (67 Stat. 133 ch. 175) extends until 6
                                                          ,


months after the termination of the national emergency declared by
the President on December 16, 1950, certain wartime provisions re-
lating to sabotage of war materials, espionage, and subversive activi-
ties affecting the Armed Forces.   For text of this act, see appendix,
page 182.
Transportation of restricted document in interstate commerce
  47. Committee recommendation.        —
                                     That it be made a crime for any
person to unauthorizedly transport in interstate commerce any Gov-
ernment document falling within a secret, confidential, restricted, or
top-secret classification (December 28, 1952).
  Action.    —No legislation enacted.
 RECOMMENDATIONS BASED UPON INVESTIGATIONS
       AND HEARINGS IN THE YEAR 1953
  During the year 1953 the House Committee on Un-American
Activities has received more abundant and detailed testimony to
establish that the Communist Party in the United States is in fact
a part of an international conspiracy, which has as its purpose
the overthrow of our Government by force and violence. There is
ever-increasing evidence of the clear and present danger in this
conspiracy, and serious consideration must be given to determine
whether the ultimate solution      is    the outlawing of the   Communist
Party.
  Under existing law, enacted largely through the work of the
House Committee on Un-American Activities, the Subversive
Activities Control Board, after nearly 3 years of public hearings,
ruled that the Communist Party is a subversive organization. As
provided by law, these findings are now subject to review by the
judicial branch of the Government. Further recommendation on
legislation to outlav/ the Communist Party will await the final
decision of the United States Supreme Court.
                               ^        H*   ^

  The Smith Act, passed by the Congress in 1940, contains provi-
sions which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully
participating either individually or with a group in activities
which have for their purpose the overthrow or destruction of "any
government in the United States by force or violence."
  Since the Subversive Activities Control Board has found that
the Communist Party is a subversive organization and the testi-
mony before this committee has also definitely established the
conspiratorial nature of the Communist Party, the committee
recommends that the Smith Act be amended. This amendment,
in the field of the law of evidence, should provide that proof of
membership in the Communist Party shall constitute prima facie
evidence of violation of the Smith Act.
                               ^        ^    ^

  The committee further recommends that legislation be enacted
to permit as evidence the results of technical surveillance in
matters affecting the national security; provided that adequate
safeguards are adopted to protect the civil liberties of all citizens.

  Since there has been a widespread abuse and improper use of
the fifth amendment by many witnesses who appeared before con-
gressional investigating committees, thereby deliberately thwart-
                                                    —
ing the uncovering of subversive activities and since evidence
has been adduced proving that the Communist Party actually
instructs its members to hide behind the fifth amendment it is      —
recommended that adequate legislation be enacted to provide
                                                                  157
158 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

against this misuse of the fifth amendment and the Bill of Rights,
which misuse prevents the committee from obtaining facts and
information necessary to the proper function of the committee.
                               *   *   *

  The committee further recommends a study          of the anti-Com-
munist oath provision of the Taft-Hartley Act, with the view of
strengthening the provision of said act to prevent Communist
infiltration into unions.
                               *   *   *

  The committee further recommends that legislation be enacted
to make it a crime for any person or persons unauthorizedly to
transport in interstate commerce any Government document fall-
ing within a top secret, secret, or confidential classification.

  The committee further recommends that legislation be enacted
forbidding the use of the United States mails under second-class
mailing privileges to subversive publications emanating either
from foreign sources or from sources within the borders of the
United States. It is also recommended that the Internal Security
Act of 1950 be amended to permit the citing of said publications as
subversive.
                               ^   ^   ^

  The committee further recommends that the Foreign Agents
Registration Act of 1938 be reexamined to determine its effective-
ness in controlling and exposing subversive activities.
                               *   *   *

  The committee further recommends that in any instance where
a person holding a commission in the armed services chooses to
refuse to answer questions by a duly authorized authority con-
cerning his present or past membership in the Communist Party,
such commission should be immediately revoked.
                              APPENDIX
          INTERNAL SECURITY ACT OF 1%0                (64   STAT.   987-1019)

                     Statute of Limitations in Espionage Cases

   Sec. 4. (e) Any person may be prosecuted, tried, and punished for any violation
of this section at any time within ten years after the commission of such offense,
notwithstanding the provisions of any other statute of limitations Provided, That
                                                                       :


if at the time of the commission of the offense such person is an officer or employee
of the United States or of any department or agency thereof, or of any corpora-
tion the stock of which is owned in whole or in major part by the United States or
any department or agency thereof, such person may be prosecuted, tried, and pun-
ished for any violation of this section at any time within ten years after such
person has ceased to be employed as such officer or employee.

             EMPLOYMENT OF MEMBERS OF COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS
  Sec. 5. (a) When a Communist organization, as defined in paragraph (5) of
section 3 of this title, is registered or there is in effect a final order of the Board
requiring such organization to register, it shall be unlawful
                                                               —
       (1) For any member of such organization, with knowledge or notice that
    such organization is so registered or that such order has become final      —
            (A) in seeking, accepting, or holding any nonelective office or employ-
         ment under the United States, to conceal or fail to disclose the fact that
         he is a member of such organization or ;


            (B) to hold any nonelective office or employment under the United
         States; or
            (C) in seeking, accepting, or holding employment in any defense facil-
         ity, to conceal or fail to disclose the fact that he is a member of such
         organization or
                       :



            (D) if such organization is a Communist-action organization, to
         engage in any employment in any defense facility.
       (2) For any officer or employee of the United States or of any defense
    facility, with knowledge or notice that such organization is so registered or
     that such order has become final   —
             (A) to contribute funds or services to such organizations; or
             (B) to advise, counsel or urge any person, with knowledge or notice
          that such person is a member of such organization, to perform, or to omit
          to perform, any act if such act or omission would constitute a violation
          of any provision of subparagraph (1) of this subsection.
   (b) The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to designate and pro-
claim, and from time to time revise, a list of facilities, as defined in paragraph (7)
of section 3 of this title, with respect to the opera-tion of which he finds and
determines that the security of the United States require* the application of the
provisions of subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary shall cause such list
as designated and proclaimed, or any revision thereof, to be promptly published
in the Federal Register, and shall promptly notify the management of any
facility so listed whereupon such management shall immediately post conspicu-
                 ;


ously, and thereafter while so listed keep posted, notice of such designation in
such form and in such place or places as to give reasonable notice thereof to
all employees of, and to all applicants for employment in, such facility.
   (c) As used in this section, the term "member" shall not include any indi-
vidual whose name has not been made public because of the prohibition contained
in section 9 (b) of this title.




                                                                            159
160 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

          DENIAL OF PASSPORTS TO MEMBERS OF COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS
  Sec. 6. (a) AVhen a Communist organization as defined in paragraph (5) of
section 3 of tliis title is registered, or there is in effect a final order of the Board
requiring such organization to register, it shall be unlawful for any member
of such organization, with knowledge or notice that such organization is so
registered or that such order has become final
                                                    —
       (1) to make application for a passport, or the renewal of a passport, to
    be issued or renewed by or under the authority of the United States or   ;



       (2) to use or attempt to use any such passport.
  (b) When an oranization is registered, or there is in effect a final order of
the Board requiring an organization to register, as a Communist-action organ-
ization, it shall be unlawful for any ofl3cer or employee of the United States
to issue a passport to, or renew the passport of, any individual knowing or hav-
ing reason to believe that such individual is a member of such organization.
   (c) As used in this section, the term "member" shall not include any indi-
vidual whose name lias not been made public because of the prohibition contained
in section 9 (b) of this title.

          REGISTRATION AND   ANNUAL REPORTS   OF    COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS
   Sec. 7. (a) Each Communist-action organization (including any organization
required, by a final order of the Board, to register as a Communist-action organi-
zation) shall, within the time specified in subsection (c) of this section, register
with the Attorney General, on a form prescribed by him by regulations, as a
Communist-action organization.
   (b) Each Communist-front organization (including any organization required,
by a final order of the Board, to register as a Communist-front organization)
shall, within the time specified in subsection (c) of this section, register with
the Attorney General, on a form prescribed by him by regulations, as a Com-
munist-front organization.
   (c) The registration required by subsection (a) or (b) shall be made
                                                                             —
        (1) in the case of an organization which is a Communist-action organiza-
     tion or a Communist-front organization on the date of the enactment of this
     title, within thirty days after such date  ;



        (2) in the case of an organization becoming a Communist-action organiza-
     tion or a Comnuinist-front organization after the date of the enactment of
     this title, within thirty days after such organization becomes a Communist-
     action organization or a Communist-front organization, as the case may be        ;

    and
       (3) in the case of an organization which by a final order of the Board is
    required to register, within thirty days after such order becomes final.
  (d) Tlie registration made under subsection (a) or (b) shall be accompanied
by a registration statement, to be prepared and filed in such manner and form
as the Attorney General shall by regulations prescribe, containing the following
information  :



       (1) The name of the organization and the address of its principal office.
       (2) The name and last-known address of each individual who is at the
    time of filing of such registration statement, and of each individual who was
    at any time during the period of twelve full calendar months next preceding
    the filing of such statement, an officer of the organization, with the desig-
    nation or title of the office so held, and with a brief statement of the duties
    and functions of such individual as such officer.
       (3) An accounting, in such form and detail as the Attorney General shall
    by regulations prescribe, of all moneys received and expended (including
    the sources from which received and the purposes for which expended) by
    the organization during the period of twelve full calendar months next pre-
    ceding the filing of such statement.
       (4) In the case of a Communist-action organization, the name and last-
    known address of each individual who was a member of the organization
    at any time during the period of twelve full calendar months preceding
    the filing of such statement.
       (.5) In the ca.se of any ofl^cer or member whose name is required to be
    shown in such statement, and who uses or has used or who is or has been
    known by more than one name, each name which such officer or member uses
    or has used or by which he is known or has been known.
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 161

   (e)  It shall be the duty of each organization registered under this section to
file with the Attorney General on or before February 1 of the year following
the year in which it registers, and on or before February 1 of each succeeding
year, an annual report, prepared and filed in such manner and form as the
Attoru(>y General shall by regulations prescribe, containing the same informa-
tion which by subsection (d) is required to be included in a registration statement,
except that the information required with respect to the twelve-month period
referred to in paragraph (2), (3), or (4) of such subsection shall, in such
annual report, be given with respect to the calendar year preceding the Febru-
ary 1 on or before which such annual report must be filed.
   (f) (1) It shall be the duty of each organization registered under this sec-
tion to keep, in such manner and form as the Attorney Gene)-al shall by regula-
tions prescribe, accurate records and accounts of moneys received and expended
 (including the sources from which received and purposes for which expended) by
such organization.
   (2) It sliall be the duty of each Communist-action organization registered
under this section to keep, in such manner and form as the Attorney General
shall by regulations prescribe, accurate records of the names and addresses of
the members of such organization and of persons who actively particiiiate in the
activities of such organization.
   (g) It shall be the duty of the Attorney General to send to each individual
listed in any registration statement or annual report, filed under thjs section,
as an oflScer'or member of the organization in respect of which such registration
statement or annual report was filed, a notification in writing that such indi-
vidual is so listed; and such notification shall be sent at the earliest practicable
time after the filing of such registration statement or annual report. Upon
written request of any individual so notified who denies that he holds any office
or membership (as the case may be) in such organization, the Attorney General
shall forthwith initiate and conclude at the earliest practicable time an appro-
piate investigation to determine the truth or falsity of such denial, and, if the
Attorney General shall be satisfied that such denial is correct, he shall thereupon
strike from such registration statement or annual report the name of such indi-
vidual. If the Attorney General shall decline or fail to strike the name of such
individual from such registration statement or annual report within five months
after receipt of such written request, such individual may file with the Board
a petition for relief pursuant to section 13 (b) of this title.
    (h) In the ca.se of failure on the part of any organization to register or to
file any registration statement or annual report as required by this section,
it shallbe the duty of the executive officer (or individual performing the ordinary
and usual duties of an executive officer) and of the secretary (or individual per-
forming the ordinary and usual duties of a secretary) of such organization, and
of such officer or officers of such organization as the Attorney General shall by
regulations prescribe, to register for such organization, to file such registra-
 tion statement, or to file such anual report, as the case may be.

           REGISTRATION OF MEMBERS OF COMMUNIST-ACTION ORGANIZATIONS

   Sec. 8. (a) Any individual who is or becomes a member of any organization
concerning which (1) there is in effect a final order of the Board requiring
such organization to register under section 7 (a) of this title as a Communist-
action organization, (2) more than thirty days have elapsed since such order
has become final, and (3) such organization is not registered under section 7 of
this title as a Communist-action organization, shall within sixty days after said
order has become final, or within thirty days after becoming a member of such
organization, whichever is later, register with the Attorney General as a member
of such organization.
   (b) Each individual who is or becomes a member of any organization which
he knows to be registered as a Communist-action organization under section 7
 (a) of this title, but to have failed to include his name upon the list of members
thereof filed with the Attorney General, pursuant to the provisions of subsections
 (d) and (e) of section 7 of this title, shall, within sixty days after he shall have
obtained such knowledge, register with the Attorney General as a member of
such organization.
   (c) The registration made by any individual under subsection (a) or (b) of
this section shall be accompanied by a registration statement to be prepared and
filed in such manner and form, and containing such information, as the Attorney
General shall by regulations prescribe.
162 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

KEEPING OF BEGI8TEES         ;    PUBLIC INSPECTION   ;   KEPORTS TO PRESIDENT AND CONGKES&
  Sec.               The Attorney General     shall keep         and maintain separately   in the
         9.    (a)
Department of Justice        —
         (1) a "Register of Communist- Action Organizations", which shall include
     (A)   the names and addresses of all Commmunist-action organizations
     registered under section 7, (B) the registration statements and annual
     reports filed by such oi-ganizations thereunder, and (C) the registration
     statements filed by individuals under section S and          ;



        (2) a "Register of Communist-Front Organizations", which shall include
     (A) the names and addresses of all Communist-front organizations reg-
     istered under section 7, and (B) the registration statements and annual
     reports filed by such organizations thereunder.
   (b) Such registers shall be kept and maintained in such manner as to be open
for public inspection      Provided, That the Attorney General shall not make
                             :



public the name of any individual listed in either such register as an officer or
member of any Communist organization until sixty days shall have elapsed after
the transmittal of the notification required by section 7 (g) to be sent to such
individual, and if prior to the end of such period such individual shall make
written request to the Attorney General for the removal of his name from any
such list, the Attorney General shall not make public the name of such individual
until six iponths shall have elapsed after receipt of such request by the Attorney
General, or until thirty days shall have elapsed after the Attorney General shall
have denied such request and shall have transmitted to such individual notice
of such denial, whichever is earlier.
   (c) The Attorney General shall submit to the President and to the Congress
on or before June 1 of each year (and at any other time when requested by either
House by resolution) a report with respect to the carrying out of the provisions
of this title, including the names and addresses of the organizations listed in such
registers and (except to the extent prohibited by subsection (b) of this section)
the names and addresses of the individuals listed as members of such
organizations.
   (d) Upon the registration of each Communist organization under the provisions
of this title, the Attorney General shall publish in the Federal Register the fact
that such organization has registered as a Communist-action organization, or
as a Communist-front organization, as the case may be, and the publication
thereof shall constitute notice to all members of such organization that such
organization has so registered.

USE OF THE MAILS AND INSTRUMENTALITIES OF INTERSTATE OR FOREIGN COMMERCE
  Sec. 10. It shall be unlawful for any organization which is registered under
section 7, or for any organization with respect to which there is in effect a final
order of the Board requiring it to register under section 7, or for any person
acting for or on behalf of any such organization
                                                              —
        (1) to transmit or cause to be transmitted, through the United States
     mails or by any means or instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce,
    any publication which is intended to be, or which it is reasonable to believe
     is intended to be, circulated or disseminated among two or more persons,
    unless such publication, and any envelope, wrapper, or other container in
    which it is mailed or otherwise circulated or transmitted, bears the following,
    printed in such manner as may be provided in regulations prescribed by
     the Attorney General, with the name of the organization appearing in lieu
    of the blank    "Disseminated by
                      :                            a Communist organization" or
                                                             ,                               ;



        (2) to broadcast or cause to be broadcast any matter over any radio or
     television station in the United States, unless such matter is preceded by
    the following statement, with the name of the organization being stated in
     place of the blank    "The following program is sponsored by
                                 :                                                               ,



    a Communist organization".

                          DENIAL OF TAX DEDUCTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
  Sec    11.(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, no deduction for
Federal income-tax purposes shall be allowed in the case of a contribution to or
for the use of any organization if at the time of the making of such contribution
(1) such organization is registered under section 7, or (2) there is in effect a
final order of the Board requiring such organization to register under section 7.
   (b) No organization shall be entitled to exemption from Federal income tax,
under section 101 of the Internal Revenue Code, for any taxable year if at any
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                      ACTIVITIES 163

time    duriiifi   such taxable year (1) such organization is registered under section
7,   or (2) there     is in effect a linal order of the Board requiring such organization
to register     under section   7.


                            SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES CONTROL BOARD

   Sec. 12. (a) There is hereby established a board, to be known as the Sub-
versive Activities Control Board, which shall be composed of tive members, who
shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate. Not more than three members of the Board shall be members of the
same political party. Two of the original members shall be appointed for a
term of one year, two for a term of two years, and one for a term of three years,
but their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years each, except
that any individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed only for the un-
expired term of the member whom he shall succeed. The President shall desig-
nate one member to serve as Chairman of the Board. Any member of the Board
may be removed by the President, upon notice and hearing, for neglect of duty
or malfeasance in oflBce, but for no other cause.
   (b)   Avacancy in the Board shall not impair the right of the remaining mem-
bers to exercise all the powers of the Board, and three members of the Board
shall, at all times, constitute a quorum.    The Board shall have an official seal
which shall be judicially noticed.
   (c) The Board shall at the close of each fiscal year make a report in writing
to the Congress and to the Pre.sident stating in detail the cases it has heard,
the decisions it has rendered, the names, salaries, and duties of all employees of
the Board, and an account of all moneys it has disbur.sed.
   (d) Each member of the Board shall receive a salary of $12,500 a year, shall
be eligible for reappointment, and shall not engage in any other business, voca-
tion, or employment.
   (e) It shall be the duty of the Board
                                                —
        (1) upon application made by the Attorney General under section 13 (a)
     of this title, or by any organization under section 13 (b) of this title, to
       determine whether any organization is a "Communist-action organization"
       within the meaning of paragraph (3) of section 3 of this title, or a "Com-
       munist-front organization" within the meaning of paragraph (4) of section
     3 of this title; and
        (2) upon application made by the Attorney General under section 13
      (a) of this title, or by any individual under section 13 (b) of this title, to
     determine whether any individual is a member of any Communist-action
     organization registered, or by final order of the Board required to be regis-
     tered, under section 7 (a) of this title.
   (f ) Subject to the civil-service laws and Classification Act of 1949, the Board
may appoint and fix the compensation of a chief clerk and such examiners and
other personnel as may be necessary for the performance of its functions.
  (g) The Board may make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with
the provisions of this title, as may be necessary for the performance of its duties.
   (h) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Board such sums as
may be necessary to carry out its functions.
                                     PROCEEDINGS BEFORE BOARD

     Sec. 13.   (a)   Whenever the Attorney General   shall have reason to believe
that any organization which has not registered under subsection (a) or sub-
section (b) of section 7 of this title is in fact an organization of a kind required
to be registered under such subsection, or that any individual who has not
registered under section 8 of this title is in fact required to register under such
section, he shall file with the Board and serve upon such organization or indi-
vidual a petition for an order requii-ing such organization or individual to register
pursuant to such subsection or section, as the case may be. Each such petition
shall be verified under oath, and shall contain a statement of the facts upon
which the Attorney General relies in support of his prayer for the issuance of
such order.
   (b) Any organization registered under subsection (a) or subsection (b) of
section 7 of this title, and any individual registered under .section 8 of this title,
may, not oftener than once in each calendar year, make application to the At-
torney General for the cancellation of such registration and (in the case of such
oi'ganization) for relief from obligation to make further annual reports. Within
sixty days after the denial of any such application by the Attorney General, the
164   ANjSTUAL report,      committee on UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

organization or individual concerned may file with the Board and serve upon the
Attorney General a petition for an order requiring the cancellation of such regis-
tration and (in the case of such organization) relieving such organization of
obligation to make further annual reports. Any individual authorized by section
7 (g) of this title to file a petition for relief may file with the Board and serve
upon the Attorney General a petition for an order requiring the Attorney General
to strike his name from the registration statement or annual report upon which it
appears.
    (c) Upon the filing of any petition pursuant to subsection (a) or subsection (b)
of this section, the Board (or any member thereof or any examiner designated
thereby) may hold hearings, administer oatlis and affirmations, may examine
witnesses and receive evidence at any place in the United States, and may require
by subpena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books,
papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records deemed relevant, to the
matter under inquiry. Subpenas may be signed and is.sued by any member of the
Board or any duly authorized examiner. Subpenas shall be issued on behalf of
the organization or the individual who is a party to the proceeding upon request
and upon a statement or showing of general relevance and reasonable scope of the
evidence sought. Such attendance of witnesses and the production of such docu-
mentary evidence may be requii-ed from any place in the United States at any
designated place of bearing. Witnesses summoned shall be paid the same fees
and mileage paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States. In case
of disobedience to a subpena, tlie Board may invoice the aid of any court of the
United States in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of documentary evidence. Any of the district courts of the United
States within the jurisdiction of which such inquiry is carried on may, in case of
contumacy or refusal to obey a subpena issued to any person, issue an order re-
quiring such person to appear (and to produce documentary evidence if so
ordered) and give evidence relating to the matter in question; and any failure
to obey such order of the court may be punished by such court as a contempt
thereof.    All process in any such case may be served in the judicial district
whereof such person is an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. No person
shall be held liable in any action in any court, State or Federal, for any damages
resulting from (1 ) his production of any documentary evidence in any proceeding
before the Board if he is required, by a subpena issued iinder this subsection, to
produce the evidence; or (2) any statement under oath he makes in answer to a
question he is asked while testifying before the Board in response to a subpena
issued under this subsection, if the statement is pertinent to the question.
   (d) (1) All hearings conducted under this section shall be public. Each party
to such proceeding shall have the right to present its case with the assistance of
counsel, to offer oral or documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and
to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true dis-
closure of the facts. An accurate stenographic record shall be taken of the tes-
timony of each witness, and a transcript of such testimony shall be filed in the
office of the Board.
   (2) Where an organization or individual declines or fails to appear at a
hearing accorded to such organization or individual by the Board pursuant to this
section, the Board may, without further proceedings and without the introduc-
tion of any evidence, enter an order requiring such organization or individual to
register or denying the application of such organization or individual, as the
case may be. Where in the course of any hearing before the Board or any exam-
iner thereof a party or counsel is guilty of misbehaving which obstructs the hear-
ing, such party or counsel may be excluded from further participation in the
hearing.
   (e) In determining whether any organization is a "Communist-action organ-
ization", the Boai'd shall take into consideration—
         (1) the extent to which its policies ai'e formulated and carried out and its
      activities performed, pursuant to directives or to effectuate the policies of the
      foreign government or foreign organizatioil in which is vested, or under the
      domination or control of which is exercised, the direction and control of the
      world Communist movement referred to in section 2 of this title and ;


         (2) the extent to which its views and policies do not deviate from those
      of such foreign government or foreign organization and
                                                          ;



         (3) the extent to which it receives financial or other aid, directly or in-
      directly, from or at the direction of such foreign government or foreign
      organization and
                  ;
      ANNTJAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AIVIERICAN ACTIVITIES 165

       (4) the extent to which it sends members or representatives to any foreign
    country for instruction or training in the principles, policies, strategy, or
    tactics of such world Communist movement and    ;



       (5) the extent to which it reports to such foreign government or foreign
    organization or to its representatives and
                                             ;



       (6) the extent to which its principal leaders or a substantial number of its
    members are subject to or recognize the disciplinary power of such foreign
    government or foreign organization or its representatives and       ;



       (7) the extent to which, for the purpose of concealing foreign direction,
    domination, or control, or of expediting or promoting its objectives, (i) it
    fails to disclose, or resists efforts to obtain information ns to, its membership
     (by keeping membership lists in code, by instructing meriibers to refuse to ac-
    knowledge membership, or by any other method) (ii) its members refuse to
                                                                ;



    acknowledge membership therein;         (iii) it fails to disclose, or resists efforts
     to obtain information as to, records other than membership lists; (iv) its
     meetings are secret: and (v) it otherwise operates on a secret basis; and
         (8) the extent to which its principal leaders or a substantial number of
      its members consider the allegiance they owe to the United States as sub-
      ordinate to their obligations to such foreign government or foreign
      organization.
   (f) In determining whether any organization is a "Communist-front organi-
zation", the Board shall take into consideration
                                                        —
         (1) the extent to which persons who are active in its management, direc-
      tion, or supervision, whether or not holding office therein, are active in the
      management, direction, or supervision of, or as representatives of, any Com-
      munist-action organization, Communist foreign government, or the world
      Communist movement referred to in section 2 and       ;



         (2) the extent to which its support, financial or otherwise, is derived
      from any Communist-action organization. Communist foreign government,
      or the world Communist movement referred to in section 2; and
         (3) the extent to which its funds, resources, or personnel are used to
      further or promote the objectives of any Communist-action organization,
      Communist foreign government, or the world Communist movement referred
      to in section 2 and ;



         (4) the extent to which the positions taken or advanced by it from time
      to time on matters of policy do not deviate from those of any Communist-
      action organization, Communist foreign government, or the world Com-
      munist movement referred to in section 2.
   (g) If, after hearing upon a petition filed under subsection (a) of this section,
the Board determines               —
         (1) that an organization is a Communist-action organization or a Com-
      munist-front organization, as the case may be, it shall make a report in
      writing in which it shall state its findings as to the facts and shall issue and
      cause to be served on such organization an order requiring such organiza-
      tion to register as such under section 7 of this title or     ;


         (2) that an individual is a memlier of a Communist-action organization
       (including an organization required by final order of the Board to register
      under section 7 (a)), it shall make a report in writing in which it shall
      state its findings as to the facts and shall issue and cause to be served on
      such individual an order requiring him to register as such under section 8
      of this title.
   (h) If. after hearing upon a i)etition filed under subsection (a) of this section,
the Board determines               —
         (1) that an organization is not a Communist-action organization or a
      Communist-front organization, as the case may be, it shall make a report
      in writing in which it shall state its findings as to the facts; issue and cause
       to be served upon the Attorney General an order denying his petition for
       an order requiring such organization to register as such under section 7
      of this title and send a copy of such order to such organization or
                      ;                                                      ;



          (2) that an individual is not a member of any Communist-action organi-
      zation, it shall make a report in writing in which it shall state its findings
       as to the facts issue and cause to be served upon the Attorney General an
                              ;


       order denying his petition for an order requiring such individual to register
       as such member under section 8 of this title and send a copy of such order
                                                        ;


       to such individual.
    (i) If, after hearing upon a petition filed under subsection (b) of this section,
 the Board determines—
       47400   — 54           12
166 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

       (1) that an organization is not a Communist-action organization or a
    Communist-front organization, as the case may be, it shall make a report
    in writing in which it shall state its findings as to the facts; issue and cause
    to be served upon the Attorney General an order requiring him to cancel
    the registration of such organization and relieve it from the requirement of
    further annual reports and send a copy of such order to such organization
                               ;                                                    ;



    or
         (2)                    is not a member of any Communist-action organiza-
               that an individual
    tion, or (in the case of   an individual listed as an officer of a Communist-
     front organization) that an individual is not an officer of a Communist-
     front organization, it shall make a report in writing in which it shall state
    its findings as to the facts    issue and cause to be served upon the Attorney
                                        ;


     General and order requiring him to (A) strike the name of such individual
    from the registration statement or annual report upon which it appears
    or (B) cancel the registration of such individual under section 8, as may
    be appropriate and send a copy of such order to such individual.
                       ;


  (j) If, after hearing upon a petition filed under subsection (b) of this section,
the Board determines       —
       (1) that an organization is a Communist-action organization or a Com-
     munist-front organization, as the case may be, it shall make a report in
     writing in which it shall state its findings as to the facts and shall issue and
     cause to be served on such organization an order denying its petition for
     the cancellation of its registration and for relief from the requirement of
     further annual reports or ;


        (2) that an individual is a member of a Communist-action organization, or
     (in the case of an individual listed as an officer of a Communist-front organ-
     ization) that an individual is an officer of a Communist-front organization,
     it shall make a report in writing in which it shall state its findings as to the
     facts and shall issue and cause to be served on such individual an order
     denying his petition for an order requiring the Attorney General (A) to
     strike his name from any registration statement or annual report on which
     it appears or (B) to cancel the registration of such individual under section
     8, as the case may be.
   (k) When any order of the Board requiring registration of a Communist
organization becomes final under the provisions of section 14 (b) of this title,
the Board shall publish in the Federal Register the fact that such order has be-
come final, and publication thereof shall constitute notice to all members of
such organization that such order has become final.

                                        JUDICIAL REVIEW

   Sec. 14. (a) The party aggrieved by any order entered by the Board under
subsection (g), (h), (i), or (j) of section 13 may obtain a review of such order
by filing in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
within sixty days from the date of service upon it of such order, a written
petition praying that the order of the Board be set aside. A copy of such petition
shall be forthwith served upon the Board, and thereupon the Board shall certify
and file in the court a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding, including
all evidence taken and the report and order of the Board.       Thereupon the court
shall have jurisdiction of the proceeding and shall have power to affirm or set
aside the order of the Board but the court may in its discretion and upon its
                                    ;


own motion transfer any action so commenced to the United States Court of
Appeals for the circuit wherein the petitioner resides. The findings of the Board
as to the facts, if supported by the preponderance of the evidence, shall be con-
clusive.   If either party shall apply to the court for leave to adduce additional
evidence, and shall show to the satisfaction of the court that such additional
evidence is material, the court may order such additional evidence to be taken
before the Board and to be adduced upon the proceeding in such manner and
upon such terms and conditions as to the court may seem proper. The Board
may modify its findings as to the facts, by reason of the additional evidence so
taken, and it shall file such modified or new findings, which, if supported by
the preponderance of the evidence shall be conclusive, and its recommendations,
if any, with respect to action in the matter under consideration.       If the court
shall set aside an order issued under subsection (j) of section 13 it may, in the
case of an organization, enter a judgment canceling the registration of such
organization and relieving it from the requirement of further annual reports,
or in the case of an individual, enter a judgment requiring the Attorney General
(A) to strike the name of such individual from the registration statement or
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON XW- AMERICAN                  ACTIVITIES 167

annual report on which it appears, or (B) cancel the registration of such individ-
ual under section 8, as may be appropriate. The judgment and decree of the
court shall be final, except that the same shall be subject to review by the Supreme
Court upon certiorari, as provided in title 28, United States Code, section 1254.
  (b) Any order of the Board issued under section 13 shall become final
                                                                         —
       (1) upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing a petition for re-
    view, if no such petition has been duly filed within such time or
                                                                  ;



       (2) upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing a petition for certi-
    orari, if the order of the Board has been aflSrmed or the petition for review
    dismissed by a United States Court of Appeals, and no petition for certiorari
    has been duly filed or    ;



       (3) upon the denial of a petition for certiorari, if the order of the Board
    has been affirmed or the petition for review dismissed by a United States
    Court of Appeals or   ;


       (4) upon the expiration of ten days from the date of issuance of the man-
    date of the Supreme Court, if such Court directs that the order of the Board
    be affirmed or the petition for review dismissed.

                                       PENALTIES

   Sec. 15. (a) If there is in effect with respect to any organization or individual
a final order of the Board requiring registration under section 7 or section 8
           —
of this title
        (1) such organization shall, upon conviction of failure to register, to file
     any registration statement or annual report, or to keep records as required
     by section 7, be punished for each such offense by a fine of not more than
     $10,000, and
        (2) each individual having a duty under subsection (h) of section 7 to
     register or to file any registration statement or annual report on behalf
     of such organization, and each individual having a duty to register under
     section 8, shall, upon conviction of failure to so register or to file any such
     registration statement or annual report, be punished for each such offense
     by a fine of not more than $10,000, or imprisonment for not more than five
     years, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
  For the purposes of this subsection, each day of failure to register, whether
on the part of the organization or any individual, shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (b) Any individual who, in a registration statement or annual report filed
under section 7 or section 8, willfully makes any false statement or willfully
omits to state any fact which is requii-ed to be stated, or which is necessary
to make the statements made or information given not misleading, shall upon
conviction thereof be punished for each such offense by a fine of not more than
$10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than five years, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. For the purposes of this subsection     —
        (1) each false statement willfully made, and each willful omission to
     state any fact which is required to be stated, or which is necessary to make
     the statements made or infoi'mation given not misleading, shall constitute a
     separate offense and
                      ;


        (2) each listing of the name or address of any one individual shall be
     deemed to be a separate statement.
   (c) Any organization which violates any provision of section 10 of this title
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for each such violation by a fine of
not more than $10,000. Any individual who violates any provision of section
5, 6, or 10 of this title shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for each such
violation by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for not more
than five years, or by both such fine and imprisonment.



                                    Espionage Cases

                                  PEBIOD OF limitations

  Sec. 19. An indictment for any violation of title 18, United States Code, sec-
tion 792, 793, or 794, other than a violation constituting a capital offense, may
be found at any time within ten years next after such violation shall have been
committed.    This section shall not authorize prosecution, trial, or punishment
for any offense now barred by the provisions of existing law.
168     ANISTLTAL             REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

REVOCATION OF NATURALIZATION—STATUTORY PERIOD— ACT OF
                JUNE 30, 1951 (65 STAT. 107)
                                        [Public   Law    65 (83d Cong.), Ch. 194]

              AN ACT           To amend chapter 213            of title   1-8   of the   United States Code.
  Be   it   enacted
               bij              House of Representatives of the United States
                               the Senate and
of America in Congress assembled, That chapter 213 of title 18 of the United
States Code be amended by adding a new section to be known as section 3291,
as follows:
"§ 3291. Nationality, citizenship and passports.
  "No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for violation of any provision
of sections 1423 to 1428, inclusive, of chapter 69 and sections 1541 to 1544, in-
clusive, of chapter 75 of title IS of the United States Code, or for conspiracy to
violate any of the afore-mentioned sections, unless the indictment is found or
the information is instituted within ten years after the commission of the
offense."
  Sec. 2. The chapter analysis of chapter 213, immediately preceding section
3281 of title 18 United States Code is amended by adding the following item at
the end thereof "3291. Nationality, citizenship and passports."
                      :




  Approved June               30, 1951.


THE McCARRAN- WALTER IMMIGRATION ACT OF JUNE                                                        27, 1952 (66   STAT.
                                                          163-282)

       GENERAL CLASSES OF ALIENS INELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE VISAS AND EXCLUDED
                                FROM ADMISSION
   Sec. 212. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the following classes
of aliens shall be ineligible to receive visas and shall be excluded from admission
into the United States              :



   (28) Aliens who are, or at any time have been, members of any of the following
classes :


      (A) Aliens who are anarchists                        ;


      (B) Aliens who advocate or teach, or who are members of or affiliated
    with any organization that advocates or teaches, opposition to all organized
    government            ;


        (C) Aliens             who      are   members      of or affiliated with (i) the Communist
    Party of the United States,                     (ii)   any other totalitarian party of the United
    States,     (iii)         the   Communist           Political Association,               (iv)   the   Communist or
    any other totalitarian party of any State of the United States, of any foreign
    state, or of any political or geographical subdivision of any foi-eign state,
    (v) any section, subsidiary, branch, affiliate, or subdivision of any such
    association or party, or (vi) the direct predecessors or successors of any
    such association or party, regardless of what name such group or organiza-
    tion may have used, may now bear, or may hereafter adopt Provided,                                      :


    That nothing in this paragraph, or in any other provision of this Act, shall
    be construed as declaring that the Communist Party does not advocate the
    overthrow of the Government of the United States by force, violence, or
    other unconstitutional means                    ;


       (D) Aliens not within any of the other provisions of this paragraph who
    advocate the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world
    communism or the establishment in the United States of a totalitarian dic-
    tatorship, or who are members of or affiliated with any organization that
    advocates the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world
    communism or the establishment in the United States of a totalitarian dic-
    tatorship, either through its own utterances or through any written or
    printed publications issued or published by or with the permission or con-
    sent of or under the authority of such organization or paid for by the
    funds of, or funds furnished by, such organization                                   ;


       (E) Aliens not within any of the other provisions of this paragraph,
    who are members of or affiliated with any organization during the time it is
    registered or required to be registered under section 7 of the Subversive
    Activities Control Act of 1950, unless such aliens establish that they did not
    have knowledge or reason to believe at the time they became members of
    or affiliated with such an organization (and did not thereafter and prior
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 169

     to the date upon              which such organization was so registered or so required
     to be registered              have such knowledge or reason to believe) that such or-
     ganization was a  Communist organization              ;


        (F) Aliens who advocate or teach or who are members of or aflBliated
     with any organization that advocates or teaches (i) the overthrow by force,
     violence, or other unconstitutional means of the Government of the United
     States or of all forms of law; or (ii) the duty, necessity, or propriety of
     the unlawful assaulting or killing of any officer or officers (either of specific
     individuals or of officers generally) of the Government of the United States
     or of any other organized government, because of his or their official char-
     acter; or (iii) the unlawful damage, injury, or destruction of property;
     or (iv) sabotoge          ;



        (G) Aliens who write or publish, or cause to be written or published,
     or    who knowingly   circulate, distribute, print, or display, or knowingly
     cause to be circulated, distributed, printed, pulilished, or displayed, or
     who knowingly have in their possession for the purpose of circulation,
     publication, distribution, or display, any written or printed matter, advo-
     cating or teaching opposition to all organized government, or advocating
     or teaching (i) the overthrow by force, violence, or other unconstitu-
     tional means of the Government of the United States or of all forms of
     law; or (ii) the duty, necessity, or propriety of the unlawful assaulting or
     killing of  any officer or officers (either of specific individuals or of officers
     generally) of the Government of the United States or of any other organized
     government, because of his or their official character; or (iii) the unlawful
     damage, injury, or destruction of property; or (iv) sabotage: or (v) the
     economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world communism
     or the establishment in the United States of a totalitarian dictatorship         ;



        (H) Aliens who are members of or affiliated with any organization that
     writes, circulates, distributes, prints, publishes, or displays, or causes to
     be written, circulated, distributed, printed, published, or displayed, or that
     has in its possession for the purpose of circulation, distribution, publication,
     issue, or display, any written or printed matter of the character described in
    paragraph (G)          ;


          (I)   Any    alien   who
                              within any of the classes described in subparagraphs,
                                      is
     (B),       (C),          (F), (G), and (H) of this paragraph because of
                        (D), (E),
     membership in or affiliation with a party or organization or a section,
     subsidiary, branch, affiliate, or subdivision thereof, may, if not otherwise
     ineligible, be issued a visa if such alien establishes to the satisfaction of
     the consular officer when applying for a visa and the consular officer finds
     that (i) such membership or affiliation is or was involuntary, or is or was
     solely when under sixteen years of age, by operation of law, or for purposes
     of obtaining employment, food rations, or other essentials of living and
     where necessary for such purposes, or (ii) (a) since the termination of
     such membership or affiliation, such alien is and has been, for at least five
     years prior to the date of the application for a visa, actively opposed to the
     doctrine, program, principles, and Ideology of such party or organization or
     the section, subsidiary, branch, or affiliate or subdivision thereof, and (b)
     the admission of such alien into the United States would be in the public
     interest.   Any such alien to whom a visa has been issued under the pro-
     visions of this subparagraph may, if not otherwise inadmissible, be admitted
     into the United States if he shall establish to the satisfaction of the Attorney
     General when applying for admission to the United States and the Attorney
     General finds that (i) such membership or affiliation is or was involuntary,
     or is or was solely when under sixteen years of age, by operation of law,
     or for purposes of obtaining employment, food rations, or other essentials
     of living and when necessary for such purposes, or (ii) (a) since the
     termination of such membership or affiliation, such alien is and has been,
     for at least five years prior to the date of the application for admission
     actively opposed to the doctrine, program, principles, and ideology of such
     party or organization or the section, subsidiary, branch, or affiliate or sub-
     division thereof, and (b) the admission of such alien into the United States
     would be in the public interest. The Attorney General shall promptly make
     a detailed report to the Congress in the case of each alien who is or .shall be
     admitted into the United States under (ii) of this subparagraph:
   (29) Aliens with respect to whom the consular officer or the Attorney General
knows or has reasonable ground to believe probably would, after entry. (A)
engage in activities which would be prohibited by the laws of the United States
relating to espionage, sabotage, public disorder, or in other activity subversive to
170 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

the national security, (B) engage in any activity a purpose of whicli is the
opposition to, or the control or overthrow of, the Government of the United
States, by force, violence, or other unconstitutional means, or (C) join, affiliate
with, or participate in the activities of any organization which is registered or
required to be registered under section 7 of the Subversive Activities Control
Act of 1950.


                       SCREENING PROCESS OF IMMIGRANTS

             Chapter 4 — Provisions Relating to Entry and Exclusion
LISTS of alienand CITIZEN PASSENGERS ARRIVING OR DEPARTING RECORD OF RESIDENT
                                                                ;


        ALIENS AND CITIZENS LEAVING PERMANENTLY FOR FOREIGN COUNTRY
   Sec. 231. (a) Upon the arrival of any person by water or by air at any port
within the United States from any place outside the United States, it shall be the
duty of the master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner, or con-
signee of the vessel or aircraft, having any such person on board to deliver to the
immigration officers at the port of arrival typewritten or printed lists or manifests
of the persons on board such vessel or aircraft.    Such lists or manifests shall be
prepared at such time, be in such form and shall contain such information as the
Attorney General shall prescribe by regulation as being necessary for the identifi-
cation of the persons transported and for the enforcement of the immigration laws.
This subsection shall not require the master or commanding officer, or authorized
agent, owner, or consignee of a vessel or aircraft to furnish a list or manifest
relating (1) to an alien crewman or (2) to any other person arriving by air on a
trip originating in foreign contiguous territory, except (with respect to such
arrivals by air) as may be required by regulations issued pursuant to section 239.
   (b) It shall be the duty of the master or commanding officer or authorized
agent of every vessel or aircraft taking passengers on board at any port of the
United States, who are destined to any place outside the United States, to file
with the immigration officers before departure from such port a list of all such
persons taken on board. Such list shall be in such form, contain such informa-
tion, and be accompanied by such documents, as the Attorney General shall
prescribe by regulation as necessary for the identification of the persons so
transported and for the enforcement of the immigration laws. No master or
commanding officer of any such vessel or aircraft shall be granted clearance papers
for his vessel or aircraft until he or the authorized agent has deposited such list
or lists and accompanying documents with the immigration officer at such port
and made oath that they are full and complete as to the information required
to be contained therein, except that in the case of vessels or aircraft which the
Attorney General determines are making regular trips to ports of the United
States, the Attorney General may, when expedient, arrange for the delivery of
lists of outgoing persons at a later date.    This subsection shall not require the
master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner, or consignee of a vessel
or aircraft to furnish a list or manifest relating (1) to an alien crewman or
(2) to any other person departing by air on a trip originating in the United States
who is destined to foreign contiguous territory, except (with respect to such
departure by air) as may be required by regulations issued pursuant to section 239.
   (c) The Attorney General may authorize immigration officers to record the
following information regarding every resident person leaving the United States
by way of the Canadian or Mexican borders for permanent residence in a for-
eign country Names, age, and sex whether married or single calling or oc-
               :
                                      ;                              ;


cupation whether able to read or write nationality country of birth country
         ;                                    ;         ;                  ;

of which citizen or subject race last permanent residence in the United States;
                            ;     ;


intended future permanent residence and time and port of last arrival in the
                                          ;


United States and if a United 'States citizen or national, the facts on which
                   ;


claim to that status is based.
   (d) If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that the
master or commanding officer, owner, or consignee of any vessel or aircraft,
or the agent of any transportation line, as th6 case may be, has refused or
failed to deliver any list or manifest required by subsections (a) or (b), or that
the list or manifest delivered is not accurate and full, such master or com-
manding officer, owner, or consignee, or agent, as the case may be, shall pay
to the collector of customs at the port of arrival or departure the sum of $10
for each person concerning whom such accurate and full list or manifest is
not furnished, or concerning whom the manifest or list is not prepared and
        AXNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 171

sworn  to as prescribed by this section or by regulations issued pursuant thereto.
No  vessel or aircraft shall be granted clearance pending determination of the
question of the liability to the payment of such penalty, or while it remains
unpaid, and no such penalty shall be remitted or refunded, except tliat clear-
ance may be granted prior to the determination of such question upon the de-
posit with the collector of customs of a bond or undertaking approved by the
Attorney General or a sum sufHcient to cover such ptenalty.
   (e) The Attorney General is authorized to prescribe the circumstances and
conditions under which the list or manifest requirements of subsections (a)
and (b) may be waived.

             DETENTION OF ALIENS FOB OBSEKVATION AND EXAMINATION
  Sec. 232. For the purpose of determining whether aliens (including alien
crewman) arriving at ports of the United States belong to any of the classes ex-
cluded by this Act, by reason of being afflicted with any of the diseases or mental
or physical defects or disabilities set forth in section 212 (a), or whenever the
Attorney General has received information showing that any aliens are coming
from a country or have embarked at a place where any of such diseases are
prevalent or epidemic, such aliens shall be detained ou board the vessel or at
the airport of arrival of the aircraft bringing them, unless the Attorney General
directs their detention in a United States immigration station or other place
specified by him at the expense of such vessel or aircraft except as otherwise
provided in this Act, as circimistances may require or justify, for a sufficient
time to enable the immigration officers and medical officers to subject such aliens
to observation and an examination sufficient to determine whether or not
they belong to the excluded classes.

              TEMPORARY REMOVAL FOB EXAMINATION TTPON ABElVAL
   Sec. 233. (a) Upon the arrival at a port of the United States of any vessel or
aircraft bringing aliens (including alien crewmen) the immigration officers may
order a temporary removal of such aliens for examination and inspection at a
designated time and place, but such temporary removal shall not be considered
a landing, nor shall it relieve vessels or aircraft, the transportation lines, or the
masters, commanding officers, agents, owners, or consignees of the vessel or
aircraft upon which such aliens are brought to any port of the United States from
any of the obligations which, in case such aliens remain on board, would, under
the provisions of this Act bind such vessels or aircraft, transportation lines,
masters, commanding officers, agents, owners, or consignees.        A temporary re-
moval of aliens from such vessels or aircraft ordered pursuant to this subsection
shall be made by an immigration officer at the expense of the vessels or aircraft or
transportation lines, or the masters, commanding officers, agents, owners, or con-
signees of such vessels, aircraft or transportation lines, as provided in subsection
(b) and such vessels, aircraft, transportation lines, masters, commanding officers,
agents, owners or consignees, shall, so long as such removal lasts, be relieved of
responsibility for the safekeeping of such aliens Provided, That such vessels,
                                                     :



aircraft, transportation lines, masters, commanding officers, agents, owners, or
consignees may with the approval of the Attorney General assume responsibility
for the safekeeping of such aliens during their removal to a designated place for
examination and inspection, in which event, such removal need not be made by
an immigration   officer.
   (b) Whenever a temporary removal of aliens is made under this section, the
vessels or aircraft or transportation lines which brought them, and the masters,
commanding officers, owners, agents, and consignees of the vessel, aircraft, or
transportation line upon which they arrived shall pay all expenses of such re-
moval to a designated place for examination and inspection or other place of
detention and all expenses arising during subsequent detention, pending a decision
on the aliens' eligibility to enter the United States and until they are either
allowed to land or returned to the care of the transportation line or to the vessel or
aircraft which brought them. Such expenses shall include maintenance, medical
treatment in hospital or elsewhere, burial in the event of death, and transfer to the
vessel, aircraft, or transportation line in the event of deportation, except where
such expenses arise under section 237 (d) or in such cases as the Attorney Gen-
eral may prescribe in the case of aliens paroled into the United States temporarily
under the provisions of section 212 (d) (5).
   (c) Any detention expenses and expenses incident to detention incurred (but
not including expenses of removal to the place of detention) pursuant to sections
172 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

323 and 233 shall not be assessed under this Act against the vessel or aircraft
or transportation line or the master, commanding officer, owner, agent, or consig-
nee of the vessel, aircraft, or transportation line in the case of (1) any alien
who arrived in possession of a valid unexpired immigrant visa, or (2) any alien
who was finally admitted to the United States pursuant to this Act after such
detention, or (3) any alien other than an alien crewman, who arrived in posses-
session of a valid unexpired nonimmigrant visa or other document authorizing
such alien to apply for temporary admission to the United States or an unexpired
reentry permit issued to him, and (A) application for admission was made within
one hundred and twenty days of the date of issuance of the visa or other docu-
ment, or in the case of an alien in possession of a reentry permit, within one
hundred and twenty days of the date on which the alien was last examined and
admitted by the Service, or (B) in the event application for admission was made
later than one hundred and twenty days of the date of issuance of the visa
or other document or such examination and admission, if the vessel, aircraft, or
transportation line or the master, commanding officer, owner, agent, or consignee
of the vessel, aircraft, or transportation line establishes to the satisfaction of the
Attorney General that the ground of exclusion could not have been ascertained
by the exercise of due diligence prior to the alien's embarkation, or (4) any
person claiming United States nationality or citizenship and in possession of an
unexpired United States passport issued to him by competent authority, or (5)
any person claiming United States nationality or citizenship and in possession of
a certificate of identity issued pursuant to section 3G0 (b) of this Act, or any
other document of identity issued or verified by a consular officer which shows on
its face tliat it is currently valid for travel to the United States and who was
allowed to land in the United States after such detention.
   (d) Any refusal or failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall
be punished in the manner specified in section 237 (b) of this Act.

                       PHYSICAL AND MENTAL EXAMINATION
  Sec. 234. The physical and mental examination of arriving aliens (including
alien crewmen) shall be made by medical officers of the United States Public
Health Service, who shall conduct all medical examinations and shall certify,
for the information of the immigration officers and the special inquiry officers,
any physical and mental defect or disease observed by such medical officers in
any such alien. If medical officers of the United States Public Health Service
are not available, civil surgeons of not less than four years' professional ex-
perience may be employed for such service upon such terms as may be prescribed
by the Attorney General. Aliens (including alien crewmen) arriving at ports
of the United States shall be examined by at least one such medical officer or
civil surgeon under such administrative regulations as the Attorney General
may prescribe, and under medical regulations prepared by the Surgeon General
of the United States I'ublic Health Service.  Medical officers of the United States
Public Health Service who have had special training in the diagnosis of insanity
and mental defects shall be detailed for duty or employed at such ports of entry
as the Attorney General may designate, and such medical officers shall be pro-
vided with suitable facilities for the detention and examination of all arriving
aliens who it is suspected may be excludable under paragraphs (1), (2), (3),
 (4), or (5) of section 212 (a), and the services of interpreters shall be provided
for such examination. Any alien certified under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4),
or (5) of section 212 (a) may appeal to a board of medical officers of the United
States Public Health Service, which shall be convened by the Surgeon General
of the United States Public Health Service, and any such alien may introduce
before such board one expert medical witness at his own cost and expense.

                       INSPECTION BY IMMIGRATIOIT OFFICERS

   Sec. 235. (a) The inspection, other than the physical and mental examination,
of aliens (including alien crewmen) seeking admission or readmission to, or the
privilege of passing through the United States shall be conducted by immigration
officers, except as otherwise provided in regard to special inquiry officers.     All
aliens arriving at ports of the United States shall be examined by one or more
immigration officers at the discretion of the Attorney General and under such
regulations as he may prescribe. Immigration officers are hereby authorized and
empowered to board and search any vessel, aircraft, railway car, or other con-
ve.vance, or vehicle in which they believe aliens are lieing brought into the Ignited
States.    The Attorney General and any immigration officer, including special
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 173

inquiry officers, shall have power to administer oaths and to take and consider
evidence of or from any person touching the privilege of any alien or person he
believes or suspects to be an alien to enter, reenter, pass through, or reside in the
United States or concerning any matter which is material and relevant to the
enforcement of this Act and the administration of the Service, and, where such
action may be necessary, to make a written record of such evidence. Any person
coming into the United States may be required to state under oath the purpose or
purposes for which he comes, the length of time he intends to remain in the
United States, whether or not he intends to remain in the United States perma-
nently and, if an alien, whether he intends to become a citizen thereof, and such
other items of information as will aid the immigration officer in determining
whether he is a national of the United States or an alien and, if the latter,
whether he belongs to any of the excluded classes enumerated in section 212. The
Attorney General and any immigration officer, including special inquiry officers,
shall have power to require by subpena the attendance and testimony of witnesses
before immigration officers and special inquiry officers and the production of
books, papers, and documents relating to the privilege of any person to enter,
reenter, reside in, or pass through the United States or concerning any matter
which is material and relevant to the enforcement of this Act and the admin-
istration of the Service, and to that end may invoke the aid of any court of the
United States. Any United States district court within the jurisdiction of which
investigations or inquiries are being conducted by an immigration officer or
special inquiry officer may, in the event of neglect or refusal to respond to a
subpena issued under this subsection or refusal to testify before an immigration
officer or special inquiry officer, issue an order requiring such persons to appear
before an immigration officer or special inquiry officer, produce books, papers,
and documents if demanded, and testify, and any failure to obey such order of
the court may be punished by the court as a contempt thereof.
   (b) Every alien (other than an alien crewman), and except as otherwise
provided in subsection (c) of this section and in section 273 (d), who may not
appear to the examining immigration officer at the port of arrival to be clearly
and beyond a doubt entitled to land shall be detained for further inquiry to be
conducted by a special inquiry officer. The decision of the examining immigra-
tion officer, if favorable to the admission of any alien, shall be subject to chal-
lenge by any other immigration officer and such challenge shall operate to take
the alien, whose privilege to land is so challenged, before a special inquiry officer
for further inquiry.
   (c) Any alien (including an alien crewman) who may appear to the examin-
ing immigration officer or to the special inquiry officer during the examination
before either of such officers to be excludable under paragraph (27), (28), or
(29) of section 212 (a) shall be temporarily excluded, and no further inquiry
by a special inquiry officer shall be conducted until after the case is reported
to the Attorney General together with any such written statement and accom-
panying information, if any, as the alien or his representative may desire to
submit in connection therewith and such an inquiry or further inquiry is directed
by the Attorney General. If the Attorney General is satisfied that the alien is
excludable under any of such paragraphs on the basis of information of a con-
fidential nature, the disclosure of which the Attorney General, in the exercise
of his discretion, and after consultation with the appropriate security agencies
of the Government, concludes would be prejudicial to the public interest, safety,
or security, he may in his discretion order such alien to be excluded and deported
without any inquiry or further inquiry by a special inquiry officer. Nothing in
this sub.section shall be regarded as requiring an inquiry before a special inquiry
officer in the case of an alien crewman.


                               EXCLUSIONS OF ALIENS
  Sec. 236.   (a)   Aspecial inquiry officer shall conduct proceedings under this
section, administer oaths, present and receive evidence, and interrogate, examine,
and cross-examine the alien or witnesses. He shall have the authority in any
case to determine whether an arriving alien who has been detained for further
inquiry under section 235 shall be allowed to enter or shall be excluded and
deported. The determination of such special inquiry officer shall be based only
on the evidence produced at the inquiry. No special inqiiiry officer shall conduct
a proceeding in any case under this section in which he shall have participated
in investigative functions or in which he shall have participated (except as
provided in this subsection) in prosecuting functions. Proceedings before a
special inquiry officer under this section shall be conducted in accordance with
174 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

this section, the applicable provisions of sections 235 and 287 (b), and such regu-
lations as the Attorney General shall prescribe, and shall be the sole and exclu-
sive procedure for determining admissiblity of a person to the United States
under the provisions of this section. At such inquiry, which shall be kept sepa-
rate and apart from the public, the alien may have one friend or relative present,
under such conditions as      may   be prescribed by the Attorney General.    A   com-
plete record of the proceedings and of all testimony and evidence produced at
such inquiry, shall be kept.
   (b) From a decision of a special inquiry officer excluding an alien, such alien
may take a timely appeal to the Attorney General, and any such alien shall be
advised of his right to take such appeal. No appeal may be taken from a tempo-
rary exclusion under section 235 (c). From a decision of the special inquiry
officer to admit an alien, the immigration officer in charge at the port where the
inquiry is held may take a timely appeal to the Attorney General. An appeal
by the alien, or such officer in charge, shall operate to stay any final action with
respect to any alien whose case is so appealed until the final decision of the
Attorney General is made. Except as provided in section 235 (c) such decision
shall be rendered solely upon the evidence adduced before the special inquiry
officer.
   (c) Except as provided in subsections (b) or (d), in every case where an
alien is excluded from admission into the United States, under this Act or any
other law or treaty now existing or hereafter made, the decision of a special
inquiry officer shall be final unless reversed on appeal to the Attorney General.
   (d) If a medical officer or civil surgeon or board of medical officers has certi-
fied under section 234 that an alien is afflicted with a disease specified in section
212 (a) (6), or with any mental disease, defect, or disability which would bring
such alien within any of the classes excluded from admission to the United
States under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of section 212 (a), the
decision of the special inquiry officer shall be based solely upon such certification.
No alien shall have a right to appeal from such an excluding decision of a special
inquiry officer. If an alien is excluded by a special inquiry officer because of
the existence of a physical disease, defect, or disability, other than one specified
in section 212 (a) (6), the alien may appeal from the excluding decision in
accordance with subsection (b) of this section, and the provisions' of section
213   may   be invoked.

  IMMEDIATE DEPORTATION OF ALIENS EXCLUDED FROM ADMISSION OR ENTE25ING
                                  IN VIOLATION OF   LAW
  Seo. 237.  (a) Any      alien(other than an alien crewman) arriving in the
United States who is excluded under this Act, shall be immediately deported to
the country whence he came, in accommodations of the same class in which he
arrived, on the vessel or aircraft bringing him, unless the Attorney General, in
an individual case, in his discretion, concludes that immediate deportation is not
practicable or proper. The cost of the maintenance including detention expenses
and expenses incident to detention of any such alien while he is being detained,
as well as the transportation expense of his deportation from the United States,
shall be borne by the owner or owners of the vessel or aircraft on which he
arrived, except that the cost of maintenance (including detention expenses and
expenses incident to detention while the alien is being detained prior to the time
he is oifered for deportation to the transportation line which brought him to the
United States) shall not be assessed against the owner or owners of such vessel
or aircraft if (1) the alien was in possession of a valid, unexpired immigrant
visa, or (2) if the alien (other than an alien crewman) was in possession of a
valid, unexpired nonimmigrant visa or other document authorizing such alien
to apply for temporary admission to the United States or an unexpired reentr.v
permit issued to him, and (A) such application was made within one hundred
and twenty days of the date of issuance of the visa or other document, or in the
ease of an alien in possession of a reentry permit, within one hundred and twenty
days of the date on which the alien was last examined and admitted by the
Service, or (B) in tlie event the application was made later than one hundred
and twenty days of the date of issuance of the visa or other document or such
examination and admission, if the owner or owners of such vessel or aircraft
established to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that the ground of exclu-
sion could not have been ascertained by the exercise of due diligence prior to
the alien's embarkation, or (3) the person claimed United States nationality or
citizenship and was in possession of an unexpired United States passport issued
to him by competent authority.
          ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                   ACTIVITIES 175

      (b) It shall be unlawful for any master, commanding officer, purser, person in
  charge, agent, owner, or consignee of any vessel or aircraft (1) to refuse to
   receive any alien (other than an alien crewman), ordered deported under this
  section back on board such vessel or aircraft or another vessel or aircraft owned
  or operated by the same interests (2) to fail to detain any alien (other than an
                                     ;


  alien crewman) on board any such vessel or at the airport of arrival of the
  aircraft when required by this Act or if so ordered by an immigration officer, or
  to fail or refuse to deliver him for medical or other inspection, or for further
  medical or other inspection, as and when so ordered by such officer (3) to refuse
                                                                       ;


  or fail to remove him from the United States to the country whence he came               ;


   (4) to fail to pay the cost of his maintenance while being detained as required
  by this section or section 233 of this title; (5) to take any fee, deposit, or con-
  sideration on a contingent basis to be kept or returned in case the alien is
  landed or excluded; or (6) knowingly to bring to the United States any alien
  (other than an alien crewman) excluded or arrested and deported under any
  provision of law until such alien may be lawfully entitled to reapply for admis-
  sion to the United States.     If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Attorney
  General that any such master, commanding officer, purser, person in charge,
 agent, owner, or consignee of any vessel or aircraft has violated any of the pro-
 visions of this section or of section 233 of this title, such master, commanding
 officer, purser, person in charge, agent, owner, or consignee shall pay to the
 collector of customs of the district in which port of arrival is situated or in
 which any vessel or aircraft of the line may be found, the sum of $300 for each
 violation.   No such vessel or aircraft shall have clearance from any port of the
 United States while any such fine is unpaid or while the question of liability to
 pay any such fine is being determined, nor shall any such fine be remitted or
 refunded, except that clearance may be granted prior to the determination of
 such question upon the deposit with the collector of customs of a bond or under-
 taking approved by the Attorney General or a sum sufficient to cover such fine.
     (c) If the vessel or aircraft, by which any alien who has been ordered deported
 under this section arrived, has left the United States and it is impracticable to
 deport the alien within a reasonable time by another vessel or airci'aft owned by
 the same person, the cost of deportation may be paid from the appropriation for
 the enforcement of this Act and recovered by civil suit from any owner, agent,
or consignee of the vessel or aircraft.
    (d) The Attorney General, under such conditions as are by regulations pre-
scribed, may stay the deportation of any alien deportable under this section, if
in his judgment the testimony of such alien is necessary on behalf of the United
States in the prosecution of offenders against any provision of this Act or other
laws of the United States. The cost of maintenance of any person so detained
resulting from a stay of deportation under this subsection and a witness fee in
the sum of $1 per day for each day such person is so detained may be paid from
the appropriation for the enforcement of this title. Such alien may be released
under bond in the penalty of not less than $500 with security approved by the
Attorney General on condition that such alien shall be produced when required as
a witness and for deportation, and on such other conditions as the Attorney
General  may prescribe.
   (e) Upon the certificate of an examining medical officer to the effect that an
alien ordered to be excluded and deported under this section is helpless from sick-
ness or mental and physical disability, or infancy, if such alien is accompanied
by another alien whose protection or guardianship is required by the alien ordered
excluded and deported, such accompanying alien may also be excluded and de-
ported, and the master, commanding officer, agent, owner, or consignee of the
vessel or aircraft in which such alien and accompanying alien arrived in the
United States shall be required to return the accompanying alien in the same
manner as other aliens denied admission and ordered deported under this section.
ENTRY THROUGH OR FROM FOREIGN CONTIGUOUS TERRITORY AND          AD.J AGENT   ISLANDS   ;

                            LANDING STATIONS
   Sec. 238. (a) The Attorney General shall have power to enter into contracts
with transportation lines for the entry and inspection of aliens coming to the
United States through foreign contiguous territory or through adjacent islands.
In prescribing rules and regulations and making contracts for the entry and
inspection of aliens applying for admission through foreign continguous territory
or through adjacent islands, due care shall be exercised to avoid any discrimina-
tory action in favor of tran.sportation companies transporting to such territory
or islands aliens destined to the United States, and all such transportation com-
176 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

panies shall be required, as a condition precedent to the inspection or examination
under such rules and contracts at the ports of such contiguous territory or such
adjacent islands of aliens brought thereto by them, to enter into a contract which
will require them to submit to and comply with all the requirements of this Act
which would apply were they bringing such aliens directly to ports of the United
States.
   (b) The Attorney General shall have power to enter into contracts with trans-
portation lines for the entry and inspection of aliens coming to the United States
from foreign contigiious territory or from adjacent islands. No such transporta-
tion line shall be allowed to land any such alien in the United States until and
unless it lias entered into any such contracts which may be required by the At-
torney General.
   (c) Every transportation line engaged in carrying alien passengers for hire to
the United States from foreign contiguous territory or from adjacent islands shall
provide and maintain at its expense suitable landing stations, approved by the
Attorney General, conveniently located at the point or points of entry. No such
transportation line shall be allowed to land any alien passengers in the United
States until such landing stations are provided, and unless such stations are there-
after maintained to the satisfaction of the Attorney General.
   (d) The Attorney General shall have power to enter into contracts including
bonding agreements with transportation lines to guarantee the passage through
the United States in immediate and continuous transit of aliens destined to
foreign countries. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, such aliens
may not have their classification changed under section 248.
   (e) As used in this section the terms "transportation line" and "transporta-
tion company" include, but are not limited to, the owner, charterer, consignee,
or authorized agent operating any vessel or aircraft bringing aliens to the United
States, to foreign contiguous territory, or to adjacent islands.

    DESIGNATION OF POETS OF ENTRY FOB ALIENS ARRIVING BY CIVIL AIRCRAFT

   Sec. 239. The Attorney General is authorized (1) by regulation to designate
as ports of entry for aliens arriving by aircraft any of the ports of entry for
civil aircraft designated as such in accordance with law; (2) by regulation to
provide such reasonable requirements for aircraft in civil air navigation with
respect to giving notice of intention to land in advance of landing or notice of
landing, as shall be deemed necessary for purposes of administration and en-
forcement of this Act; and (3) by regulation to provide for the application to
civil air navigation of the provisions of this Act where not expressly so provided
in this Act to such extent and upon such conditions as he deems necessary.
Any person who violates any regulation made under this section shall be subject
to a civil penalty of $500 which may be remitted or mitigated by the Attorney
General in accordance with such proceedings as the Attorney General shall by
regulation prescribe. In case the violation is by the owner or person in com-
mand of the aircraft, the penalty shall be a lien upon the aircraft, and such air-
craft may be libeled therefor in the appropriate United States court. The deter-
mination liy the Attorney General and remission or mitigation of the civil penalty
shall be final.  In case the violation is by the owner or person in command of the
aircraft, the penalty shall be a lien upon the aircraft and may be collected by
proceedings in rem which shall conform as nearly as may be to civil suits in
admiralty. The Supreme Court of the United States, and under its direction
other courts of the United States, are authorized to prescribe rules regulating
such proceedings against aircraft in any particular not otherwise provided by
law. Any aircraft made subject to a lien by this section may be summarily seized
by, and placed in the custody of such persons as the Attorney General may by
regulation prescribe. The aircraft may be released from such custody upon de-
posit of such amount not exceeding $.500 as the Attorney General may" prescribe,
or of a bond in such sum and with such sureties as the Attorney General may
prescribe, conditioned upon the payment of the penalty which may be finally
determined by the Attorney General.

                              RECORDS OF ADMISSION
  Sec. 240. (a) The Attorney General shall cause to be filed, as a record of ad-
mission of each immigrant, the immigrant visa required by section 221 (e) to be
surrendered at the port of entry by the arriving alien to an immigration officer.
  (b) The Attorney General shall cause to be filed such record of the entry into
the United States of each immigrant admitted under section 211 (b) and of each
         ANNUAL REPORT,          COIVIMITTEE       ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 177

nonimiuigrant as the Attorney General deems necessary for the enforcement of
the immigration laws.

                  Chapteb 5     —Deportation   ;
                                                   Adjustmb:nt of Status
                            general classes of deportable aliens
  Sec. 241.     (a) Any alien in the United States (including an alien crewman)
shall,   upon the order of the Attorney General, be deported who    —
   (6)    is or at any time has been, after entry, a member of any of the following
classes of aliens   :



      (A) Aliens who are anarchists;
      (B) Aliens who advocate or teach, or who are members of or affiliated
    with any organization that advocates or teaches, opposition to all organized
    government      ;


        (C) Aliens who are members of or affiliated with (i) the Communist
     Party of the United States; (ii) any other totalitarian party of the United
     States; (iii) the Communist Political Association; (iv) the Communist or
     any other totalitarian party of any State of the United States, of any foreign
     state, or of any political or geographical subdivision of any fox'eign state   ;


     (v) any section, subsidiary, branch, affiliate, or subdivision of any such
     association or party; or (vi) the direct predecessors or successors of any
     such association or party, regardless of what name such group or organi-
    zation may have used, may now bear, or may hereafter adopt Provided,   :


    That nothing in this paragraph, or in any other provision of this Act, shall
    be construed as declaring that the Communist Party does not advocate the
    overthrow of the Government of the United States by force, violence, or other
    unconstitutional means        ;


        (D) Aliens not within any of the other provisions of this paragraph who
    advocate the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world
    communism or the establishment in the United States of a totalitarian dic-
    tatorship, or who are members of or affiliated with any organization that
    advocates the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world
    communism or the establishment in the United States of a totalitarian dic-
    tatorship, either through its own utterances or through any written or
    printed publications issued or published by or with the permission or consent
    of or under the authority of such organization or paid for by the funds of,
    or funds furnished by, such organization           ;


        (E) Aliens not within any of the other provisions of this paragraph who
    are members of or affiliated with any organization during the time it is
    registered or required to be registered under section 7 of the Subversive
    Activities Control Act of 1950, unless such aliens establish that they did not
    have knowledge or reason to believe at the time they became members of
    or affiliated with such an organization (and did not thereafter and prior
    to the date upon which such organization was so registered oi; so required
    to be registered have such knowledge or reason to believe) that such organi-
    zation was a Communist organization            :


        (F) Aliens who advocate or teach or who are members of or affiliated with
    any organization that advocates or teaches (i) the overthrow by force, vio-
    lence, or other unconstitutional means of the Government of the United
    States or of all forms of law; or (ii) the duty, necessity, or propriety of the
    unlawful assaulting or killing of any officer or officers (either of specific
    individuals or of officers generally) of the Government of the United States
    or of any other organized government, because of his or their official char-
    acter; or (iii) the unlawful damage, injury, or destruction of property; or
    (iv) sabotage       :



       (G) Aliens who write or publish, or cause to be written or published, or
    who knowingly circulate, distribute, print, or display, or knowingly cause
    to be circulated, distributed, printed, published, or displayed, or who know-
    ingly have in their possession for the purpose of circulation, publication,
    distribution, or display, any written or printed matter, advocating or teach-
    ing opposition to all organized government, or advocating or teaching (i)
    the overthrow by force, violence, or other imconstitutional means of the
    Government of the United States or of all forms of law; or (ii) the duty,
    necessity, or propriety of the unlawful assaulting or killing of any officer
    or officers (either of specific individuals or of officers generally) of the Gov-
    ernment of the United States or of any other organized government, because
    of his or their official character; or (iii) the unlawful damage, injury, or
 178 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

               destruction of property      ;   or (iv) sabotage   ;
                                                                       or (v) the economic, international,
               and governmental doctrines of world communism or the establishment                       in
           the United States of a totalitarian dictatorship                         ;



              (H) Aliens who are members of or affiliated with any organization that
           writes, circulates, distributes, prints, publishes, or displays, or causes to be
           written, circulated, distributed, printed, published, or displayed, or that has
           in its possession for the purpose of circulation, distribution, publication, issue,
           or display, any written or printed matter of the character described in para-
           graph (G)      ;



                          any time after entry has engaged, or at any time after
      (7) is engaged, or at
 entry has had a purpose to engage, in any of the activities described in paragraph
 (27) or (29) of section 212 (a), unless the Attorney General is satisfied, in the
 case of any alien within category (C) of paragraph (29) of such section, that
 such alien did not have knowledge or reason to believe at the time such alien
 became a member of, affiliated with, or participated in the activities of the organi-
 zation (and did not thereafter and prior to the date upon which such organization
 was registered or required to be registered under section 7 of the Subversive
 Activities Control Act of 1950 have such knowledge or reason to believe) that
 such organization was a Communist organization                                 :




 DEPOETATION OF ALIENS tJPON CONVICTION OF CRIMES AGAINST THE UNITED STATES

    (17) the Attorney General finds to be an undesirable resident of the United
 States by reason of any of the following, to wit has been or may hereafter be
                                                                            :


 convicted of any violation or conspiracy to violate any of the following Acts or
 parts of Acts or any amendment thereto, the judgment on such conviction having
 become final, namely an Act entitled "An Act to punish acts of interference with
                               :


 the foreign relations, the neutrality, and the foreign commerce of the United
 States, to punish espionage, and better to enforce the criminal laws of the
 United States, and for other purposes", approved June 15, 1917, or the amend-
 ment thereof approved May 16, 1918 sections 791, 792, 793, 794, 2388, and 3241,
                                                       ;


 title 18, United States Code an Act entitled "An Act to prohibit the manufacture,
                                        ;


distribution, storage, use, and possession in time of war of explosives, providing
 regulations for the safe manufacture, distribution, storage, use, and possession of
 the same, and for other purposes", approved October 6, 1917 an Act entitled                ;


 "An Act to prevent in time of war departure from and entry into the United
 States contrary to the public safety", approved May 22, 1918 section 215 of this       ;



Act an Act entitled "An Act to punish the willful injury or destruction of war
       ;


material or of war premises or utilities used in connection with war material,
and for other purposes", approved April 20, 1918 sections 2151, 2153, 2154, 2155,
                                                                        ;


and 2156 of title 18, United States Code an Act entitled "An Act to authorize
                                                           ;

the President to increase temporarily the Military establishment of the United
States", approved May 18, 1917, or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto                          ;

the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 the Selective Service Act of 1948 ;
                                                                   ;


the Universal Military Training and Service Act an Act entitled "An Act to      ;


punish persons who make threats against the President of the United States",
approved February 14, 1917 section 871 of title 18, United States Code an Act
                                            ;                                                       ;


entitled "An Act to define, regulate, and punish trading with the enemy, and for
other purposes", approved October 6, 1917, or any amendment thereof the Trad-                   ;


ing With the Enemy Act section 6 of the Penal Code of the United States
                                    ;                                                                   ;

section 2384 of title 18, United States Code; has been convicted of any offense
against section 13 of the Penal Code of the United States committed during the
period of August 1, 1914, to April 6, 1917, or of a conspiracy occurring within
said period to commit an offense under said section 13 or of any offense com-
mitted during said period against the Act entitled "An Act to protect trade and
commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies", approved July 2, 1890,
in aid of a belligerent in the European war ; section 960 of title 18, United States
Code or    ;


                         DETENTION OF UNDEPOBTABLE ALIENS
                 When a final order of deportation under administrative processes
     Sec. 242. (c)
is   madeagainst any alien, the Attorney General shall have a period of six months
from the date of such order, or, if judicial review is had, then from the date of
the final order of the court, within which to effect the alien's departure from the
United States, during which period, at the Attorney General's discretion, the alien
may be detained, released on bond in an amount and containing such conditions
as the Attorney General may prescribe, or released on such other condition
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                     ACTIVITIES 179

 as the Attorney General may prescribe. Any court of competent jurisdiction
 shall have authority to review or revise any determination of the
                                                                              Attorney
 General concerning detention, release on bond, or other release during such
 six-month period upon a conclusive showing in habeas corpus proceedings that
 the Attorney General is not proceeding with such reasonable dispatch as
                                                                                may be
 warranted by the particular facts and circumstances in the case of any alien
 to effect such alien's departure from the United States within such six-month
 period.    If deportation has not been practicable, advisable, or
                                                                           possible, or
 departure of the alien from the United States under the order of deportation has
 not been effected, within such six-month period, the alien shall become subject
 to such further supervision and detention pending eventual deportation as is
 authorized in this section. The Attorney General is hereby authorized and
 directed to arrange for appropriate places of detention for those aliens whom he
 shall take into custody and detain under this section.            Where no Federal
 buildings are available or buildings adapted or suitably located for the purpose
 are available for rental, the Attorney General is hereby authorized, notwith-
 standing section 3709 of the Revised Statutes, as amended (41 U. S. C. 5), or
 section 322 of the Act of June 30, 1932, as amended (40 U. S. C. 278a), to expend,
 from the appropriation provided for the administration and enforcement of the
 immigration laws, such amounts as may be necessary for the acquisition of land
 and the erection, acquisition, maintenance, operation, remodeling, or repair of
 buildings, sheds, and office quarters (including living quarters for officers where
 none are otherwise available), and adjunct facilities, necessary for the detention
 of aliens.   For the purposes of this section an order of deportation heretofore
 or hereafter entered against an alien in legal detention or confinement, other than
 under an immigration process, shall be considered as being made as of the moment
 he is relea^d from such detention or confinement, and not Drior thereto.
    (d) Any alien, acainst whom a final order of deportation as defined in sub-
section (c) heretofore or hereafter issued has been outstanding for more than
 six months, shall, pending eventual deportation, be subject to supervision under
regulations prescribed by the Attorney General. Such regulations shall include
provisions which will require any alien subject to supervision (1) to appear from
 time to time before an immigration officer for identification; (2) to submit, if
necessary, to medical and psychiatric examination at the expense of the United
 States; (3) to give information under oath as to his nationality, circumstances,
habits, associations, and activities, and such other information, whether or not
 related to the foregoing, as the Attorney General may deem fit and proper and   ;



 (4) to conform to such reasonable written restrictions on his conduct or activities
as are prescriJjed by the Attorney General in his case. Any alien who shall will-
fully fail to comply with such regulations, or willfully fail to appear or to give
information or submit to medical or psychiatric examination if required, or
knowingly give false information in relation to the requirements of such regu-
lations, or knowingly violate a reasonable restriction imposed upon his conduct
or activity, shall upon conviction be guilty of a felony, and shall be fined not
more than $1,000 or shall be imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
    (e) Any alien against whom a final order of deportation is outstanding by
reason of being a member of any of the classes described in paragraphs (4), (5),
 (6), (7), (11), (12), (14), (15), (16). (17), or (IS) of section 241 (a), who
shall wilfully fail or refuse to depart from the United States within a period of
six months from the date of the final order of deportation under administrative
processes, or, if judicial review is had, then from the date of the final order of the
court, or from the date of the enactment of the Subversive Activities Control
Act of 1950, whichever is the later, or shall willfully fail or refuse to make timely
application in good faith for travel or other documents necessary to his depar-
ture, or who shall connive or conspire, or take any other action, designed to pre-
vent or hamper or with the purpose of preventing or hampering his departure
pursuant to such order of deportation, or who shall willfully fail or refuse to
present himself for deportation at the time and place required by the Attorney
General pursuant to such order of deportation, shall upon conviction be quilty
of a felony, and shall be imprisoned not more than ten years Provided, That
                                                                    :


this subsection shall not make it illegal for any alien to take any proper steps
for the purpose of securing cancellation of or exemption from such order of
deportation or for the purpose of securing his release from incarceration or
custody: Provided further, That the court may for good cause suspend the
sentence of such alien and order his release under such conditions as the court
may prescribe. In determining whether good cause has been shown to justify
releasing the alien, the court shall take into account such factors as (1) the
age, health, and period of detention of the alien; (2) the effect of the alien's
180 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

release upon the national security and public peace or safety (3) the likelihood
                                                                         ;


of the alien's resuming or following a course of conduct which made or would
make him deportable; (4) the character of the efforts made by such alien him-
self and by representatives of the country or countries to which his deportation
is directed to expedite the alien's departure from the United States; (5) the
reason for the inability of the Government of the United States to secure pass-
ports, other travel documents, or deportation facilities from the country or
countries to which the alien has been ordered deported; and (6) the eligibility
of the alien for discretionary relief under the immigration laws.
   (f ) Should the Attorney General find that any alien has unlawfully reentered
the United States after having previously departed or been deported pursuant
to an order of deportation, whether before or after the date of enactment of this
Act, on any ground described in any of the paragraphs enumerated in subsection
(e), the previous order of deportation shall be deemed to be reinstated from its
original date and such alien shall be deported under such previous order at any
time subsequent to such reentry.     For the purposes of sulDsection (e) the date
on which the finding is made that such reinstatement is appropriate shall be
deemed tlie date of the final order of deportation.
   (g) If any alien, subject to supervision or detention under subsections (c)
or (d) of this section, is able to depart from the United States under the order
of deportation, except that he is financially unable to pay his passage, the
Attorney General may in his di-scretion permit such alien to depart voluntarily,
and the expense of such passage to the country to which he is destined may be
paid from the appropriation for the enforcement of this Act, unless such pay-
ment is otherwise provided for under this Act.
   (h) An alien sentenced to imprisonment shall not be deported until such im-
prisonment has been terminated by the release of the alien from confinement.
Parole, probation, or possibility of rearrest or further confinement in respect
of the same olfense shall not be a ground for deferral of deportation.

                   REFUSAL OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES TO ACCEPT DEPORTEES
  Sec. 243. (g) Upon the notification by the Attorney General that any country
upon request denies or unduly delays acceptance of the return of any alien
who is a national, citizen, subject, or resident thereof, the Secretary of State
shall instruct consular oflScers performing their duties in the territory of such
country to discontinue the issuance of immigrant visas to nationals, citizens,
subjects, or residents of such country, until such time as the Attorney General
shall inform the Secretary of States that such country has accepted such alien.
   (h) The Attorney General is authorized to witlihold deportation of any alien
within the United States to any country in which in his opinion the alien would
be subject to physical persecution and for such period of time as he deems to be
necessary for such reason.

                                          REVOCATION OF NATURALIZATION
                             *   *   *
                                   That refusal on the part of a naturalized citizen
     Sec. 340.   (a)                     Prot-frfe^Z,
within a period of ten years following his naturalization to testify as a witness in
any proceeding before a congressional committee concerning his subversive activ-
ities, in a case where such person has been convicted of contempt for such refusal,,
shall be held to constitute a ground for revocation of such person's naturaliza-
tion under this subsection as having been procured by concealment of a material
fact or by willful misrepresentation.
       :):             ij:                    :;:       4<        4:         4s   4l



     Sec. 340.   (g)     When
                        a person shall be convicted under section 1425 of title 18
of the United States Code of knowingly procuring naturalization in violation
of law, the court in which such conviction is had shall thereupon revoke, set
aside, and declare void the final order admitting such person to citizenship, and
shall declare the certificate of naturalization of such person to be canceled.
Jurisdiction is hereby conferred on the courts having jurisdiction of the trial
of such offense to make such adjudication.

                                            study of immigration laws

                                         Joint Congressional Committee
     Sec. 401. (a) There is hereby established a joint congressional committee to
be   known   as the Joint Committee on Immigration and Nationality Policy (here-
           ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-.\:MERICAN ACTIVITIES 181
inafter referred to as the "Committee") to be composed of ten members as fol-
lows: (1) five members who are members of the Committee on the Judiciary of
the Senate, three from the majority and two from the minority party to be
appointed by the President of the Senate and (2) five members who are members
                                                ;



of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, three from
the majority and two from the minority party to be appointed by the Speaker
of the House of Representatives.
   (b) No person shall continue to serve as a member of the Committee after
he has ceased to be a member of the Committee on the Judiciary of either the
Senate or the House of Representatives.
   (c)     A
         vacancy in the meml)ership of the Committee shall be filled in the same
manner as the original selection and the Committee shall elect a Chairman from
among      its   members.
   (d) It shall be the function of the Committee to make a continuous study of
(1) the administration of this Act, and its effect on the national security, the
economy, and the social welfare of the United States, and (2) such conditions
within or without the United States which in the opinion of the Committee might
have any bearing on the immigration and nationality policy of the United States.
   (e) The Committee shall make from time to time a report to the Senate and
the House of Representatives concerning the results of its studies together with
such recommendations as it may deem desirable.
   (f) The Secretary of State and the Attorney General shall without delay
submit to the Committee all regulations, instructions, and all other information
as requested by the Committee relative to the administration of this Act and the
                                                                           ;



Secretary of State and the Attorney General shall consult wih the Committee
from time to time with respect to their activities under this Act.
   (g) The Committee or any duly authorized Subcommittee thereof Is authorized
to hold such hearings to sit and act at such times and places
                                 ;
                                                                    to require by
                                                                      ;




subpena or otherwise the attendance of such witnesses and the production uf
such books, papers, and documents to administer such oaths to take such
                                            ;                         ;



testimony to procure such printing and binding as it deems advisable. The pro-
                 ;


visions of sections 102 and 104. inclusive, of the Revised Statutes shall apply in
case of any failure of any witnesses to comply with any subpeua or to testify
when summoned under the authority of this Act.
   (h) The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation in addi-
tion to that received for their services as Members of Congress but they shall
be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other expenses incurred by them in
the performance of the duties vested in the Committee other than expenses in
connection with meetings of the Committee held in the District of Columbia
during such times as the Congress is in session.



                     FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
            Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1952 (66 Stat. 667)

                            institutions listed by attorney general

     Sec. 228.The Administrator shall not approve the enrollment of, or payment
of   an education and training allowance to, any eligible veteran in any course in an
educational institution or training establishment while it is listed by the Attorney
General under section 3 of part III of Executive Order 983.5, as amended.
  Executive Order 9835, part III, section 3 (12 F. R. 1935, issued March 21, 1947),
read   :



     "The Loyalty Review Board shall currently be furnished by the Department of
Justice the name of each foreign or domestic organization, association, movement,
group, or combination of persons which the Attorney General, after appropriate
investigation and determination, designates as totalitarian. Fascist, Communist,
or subversive, or as having adopted a policy of advocating or approving the
commission of acts of force or violence to deny others their rights under the
Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of government
of the United States by unconstitutional means.
   "a. The Loyalty Review Board shall disseminate such information to all
departments and agencies."


           4740€     — 54   13
182 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

EMERGENCY POWERS OF EXECUTIVE BRANCH                                        IN PRESENT PERIOD
                             Act of June          30, 1953 (67 Stat. 133)

                                       [Public   Law   99,   Chapter 175]

AN ACT To amend       title 18.United States Code, entitled "Crimes and Criminal Procedure",
     .with respect to continuing the effectiveness of certain statutory provisions until six
     (months  after the termination of the national emergency proclaimed by the President
     on December 16, 1950.

     it enacted iy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
     Be
of America in Congress assembled, That chapter 105 of title 18, United States
Code, is hereby amended by inserting at the end of the chapter analysis preced-
ing section 2151 of such title the following                 new item   :



"2157.      Temporary extension of         sections 2153       and 2154."
  Sec. 2. Title 18, United States Code, is hereby amended by inserting in chapter
105 thereof, immediately after section 2156, a new section, to be designated as
section 2157, as follows      :




"§ 2157. Temporary extension of sections 2153 and 2154
  "(a) The provisions of sections 2153 and 2154 of this title, as amended and
extended by section 1 (a) (29) of the Emergency Powers Continuation Act
(66 Stat. 333), as further amended by Public Law 12, Eighty-third Congress, in
addition to coming into full force and effect in time of war shall remain in full
force and effect until six months after the termination of the national emergency
proclaimed by the President on December 16, 1950 (Proc. 2912, 3 C, F. R., 1950
Supp., p. 71 ) or such earlier date as may be prescribed by concurrent resolution
                 ,


of the Congress, and acts which would give rise to legal consequences and penal-
ties under any of these provisions when performed during a state of war sliall
give rise to the same legal consequences and penalties when they are performed
during the period above provided for.
   "(b) Effective in each case for the period above provided for, title 18, United
States Code, section 2151, is amended by inserting the words 'or defense
activities' immediately before the period at the end of the definition of 'war
material', and said sections 2153 and 2154 are amended by inserting the w'ords
'or defense activities' immediately after the words 'carrying on the war' wher-
ever they appear therein."
  Sec. 3. Chapter 37 of title 18, United States Code, is hereby amended by insert-
ing at the end of the chapter analysis preceding section 791 of such title the
following new item      :



"798.     Temporary extension           of section 794.''
     Sec. Title 18, United States Code, is hereby amended by inserting in chapter
            4.
37 thereof immediately after section 797 a new section, to be designated as section
798, as follows :

"§ 798. Temporary extension of section 794
   "The provisions of section 794 of this title, as amended and extended by section
1 (a) (29) of the Emergency Powers Continuation Act (66 Stat. 333), as further
amended by Public Law 12, Eighty-third Congress, in addition to coming into
full force and effect in time of war shall remain in full force and effect until
six months after the termination of the national emergency proclaimed by the
President on December 16, 1950 (Proc. 2912, 3 C. F. R., 1950 Supp., p. 71), or
such earlier date as        may       be prescribed by concurrent resolution of the Congress,
and acts w^hich would give rise to legal consequences and penalties under section
794 when performed during a state of war shall give rise to the same legal
consequences and penalties when they are performed during the period above
provided for."
  Sec. 5. Chapter 115 of   title 18, United States Code, is hereby amended by
inserting at the end of the chapter analysis preceding section 2391 of such title
the following new item            :



"2391 Temporary extension of section 2388."
  Sec. 6. Title 18, United States Code, is hereby amended by inserting in chapter
115 thereof, immediately after section 2390, a new section, to be designated as
section 2391, as follows          :



"§ 2391. Temporary extension of section 2388."
  "The provisions of section 2388 of this title, as amended and extended by
section 1 (a) (29) of the Emergency Powers Continuation Act (66 Stat. 333),
           ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 183
 as further   amended by Public Law 12, Eighty-third Congress, in addition to
 coming into   full force and effect in time of war shall remain in full force and
 effect until six months after the termination of the national emergency pro-
 claimed by the President on December 16, 1950 (Proc. 2912, 3 C. F. R., 1950
 Supp., p. 71), or such earlier date as may be prescribed by concurrent resolution
 of the Congress, and acts which would give rise to legal consequences and pen-
 alties under section 23SS when performed during a state of war shall give rise
 to the same legal consequences and penalties when they are performed during
 the period above provided for."
   Sec. 7. Section 1 (a) (29) of the                  Emergency War Powers Continuation Act
 (66 Stat. 333), is hereby repealed.
   Approved June         30, 1953.


                        CITIZENSHIP OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
                    Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1954 (67 Stat. 435)
   Sec. 1302. Unless otherwise specified and during the current fiscal year, no
part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act shall be used to
pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the Government of the United
States (including any agency the majority of the stock of which is owned by the
Government of the United States) whose post of duty is in continental United
States unless such person (1) is a citizen of the United States, (2) is a person
in the service of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act, who,
being eligible for citizenship, had filed a declaration of intention to become a
citizen of the United States prior to such date, (3) is a person who owes alle-
giance to the United States or (4) is an alien from the Baltic countries lawfully
admitted to the United States for permanent residence Provided, That for the  :


purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by any such person shall be considered
prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section with respect to his
status have been complied with Provided further, That any person making
                                                :


a false affidavit shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both Pro-                    :


vided further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition to. and not in
substitution for, any other provisions of existing law    Provided further. That
                                                                          :


any payment made to any officer or employee contrary to the provisions of this
section shall be recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This sec-
tion shall not apply to citizens of the Republic of the Philippines or to na-
tionals of those countries allied with the United States in the current defense
effort.


                   IMMUNITY FOR CONGRESSIONAL WITNESSES
S. 16 (83d Cong.) as It           Passed the Senate on July 9, 1953 (Daily Congressional
                                      Record, vol. 99, p. 8663)
  On   a division, the       bill (S.   16)   was passed as follows   :



  "Be     it e7i acted, etc.,   That    title 18,   United States Code, section 8486,   is   amended
to read as follows       :


  "
    '§ 3486. Testimony before Congress    immunity     ;

  "
    'No witness shall be excused from testifying or from producing books, papers,
and other records and documents before either House, or before any committee
of either House, or before any joint committee of the two Houses of Congress on
the ground, or for the reason, that the testimony or evidence, documentary or
otherwise, required of him many tend to incriminate him or subject him to a
penalty or forfeiture, when the record shows                —
      "'(1) in the case of proceedings before one of the Houses of Congress,
    that a majority of the Members present of that House, or
      "'(2) in the case of proceedings before a committee, that two-thirds of
    the members of the full committee, including at least two members of each
    of the two political parties having the largest representation on such
    committee
shall by affirmative vote have authorized that such person be granted immunity
under this section with respect to the transactions, matters, or things concerning
which, after he has claimed his privilege against self-incrimination, he is never-
theless compelled by direction of the presiding officer or the chair to testify.
-But no such witness shall be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture
184 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

for or on account of any transaction, matter or thing concerning which after he
has claimed his privilege against self-incrimination he is nevertheless so com-
pelled to testify, or produce evidence, documentary or otherwise.
  "
    'No official paper or record required to be produced hereunder is within the
said privilege.
  "
    'No person shall be exempt from prosecution or punishment for perjury or
contempt committed in so testifying.
  "
    'At least 1 week in advance of voting on the question of granting immunity
to any witness under this act the Attorney General shall be informed of the
intention to consider such question, and shall have assented to the granting of
such immunity Provided, That if the Attorney General does not assent to
                :



immunity within 1 week after requested by the committee, immunity can never-
theless be granted by the committee if by resolution of the particular House of
the Congress having jurisdiction over the committee, said House by a majority
                                                          "
year-and-nay vote authorizes the granting of immunity.'



          OFFENSES IN CONNECTION WITH NATURALIZATION
                           18 U. S.   Code (Criminal Code)
      Misuse of evidence of citizenship or naturalization.
§ 1423.
  Whoever knowingly uses for any purpose any order, certificate,        certificate of
naturalization, certificate of citizenship, judgment, decree, or exemplification, un-
lawfully issued or made, or copies or duplicates thereof, showing any person to
be naturalized or admitted to be a citizen, shall be fined not more than $5,000 or
imprisoned not more than five years, or both. (June 25, 1948, ch. 645 §1, 62
Stat. 766, eff. Sept. 1, 1948.)

§ 1424. Personation or misuse of papers in naturalization proceedings.
   Whoever, whether as applicant, declarant, petitioner, witness or otherwise, in
any naturalization or citizenship proceeding, knowingly personates another or
appears falsely in the name of a deceased person or in an assumed or fictitious
name or
      ;


   Whoever knowingly and unlawfully uses or attempts to use, as showing na-
turalization or citizensliip of any person, any order, certificate, certificate of na-
turalization, certificate of citizenship, judgment, decree, or exemplification, or
copies or duplicates thereof, issued to another person, or in a fictitious name or
in the name of a deceased person      —
   Shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than five years,
or both.   (June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 766, eflf. Sept. 1, 1948.)
§ 1425. Procurement of citizenship or naturalization unlawfully.
   (a) Whoever knowingly procures or attempts to procure, contrary to law, the
naturalization of any person, or documentary or other evidence of naturaliza-
tion or of citizenship or
                       ;


   (b) Whoever, whether for himself or another person not entitled thereto, know-
ingly issues, procures or obtains or applies for or otherwise attempts to procure
or obtain naturalization, or citizenship, or a declaration of intention to become a
citizen, or a certificate of arrival or any certificate or evidence of nationalization
or citizenship, documentary or otherwise, or duplicates or copies of any of the
foregoing —
  Shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or
both.  (June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 766, eft. Sept. 1, 1948.)
§ 1426. Reproduction of naturalization or citizenship papers.
   (a) Whoever falsely makes, forges, alters or counterfeits any oath, notice,
affidavit, certificate of arrival, declaration of intention, certificate or documen-
tary evidence of naturalization or citizenship or any order, record, signature,
paper or proceeding or any copy thereof, required or authorized by any law relating
to naturalization or citizenship or registry of aliens or
                                                       ;


   (b) Whoever utters, sells, disposes of or xises as true or genuine, any false,
forged, altered, antedated or counterfeited oath, notice, affidavit, certificate of
arrival, declaration of intention to become a citizen, certificate or documentary
evidence of naturalization or citizenship, or any order, record, signature, or
other instrument, paper or proceeding required or authorized by any law relating
to naturalization or citizenship or registry of aliens, or any copy thereof, know-
ing the same to be false, forged, altered, antedated or counterfeited or  ;
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 185

   (c) Whoever, with intent unlawfully to use the same, possesses any false,
forged, altered, antedated or counterfeited certificate of arrival,
                                                                        declaration
of intention to become a citizen, certificate or documentary evidence of natural-
ization or citizenship purportius to have been issued under any law of the
United States, or copy thereof, knowing the same to be false, forged, altered,
antedated or counterfeited or   ;



   (d) Whoever, without lawful authority, engraves or possesses, sells or brings
into the United States any plate in the likeness or similitude of any plate de-
signed, for the printing of a declaration of intention, or certificate or documen-
tary evidence of naturalization or citizenship or        ;




   (e) Whoever, without lawful authority, brings into the United States any
document printed therefrom or       ;



   (f) Whoever, without lawful authority, possesses any blank certificate
                                                                                 of
arrival, blank declaration of intention or blank certificate of naturalization or
citizenship provided by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, with Intent
unlawfully to use the same; or
   (g) Whoever, with intent unlawfully to use the same, possesses a distinctive
paper adopted by the proper officer or agency of the United States for the print-
ing or engraving of a declaration of intention to become a citizen, or certificate
of naturalization or certificate of citizenship or   ;




   (h) Whoever, without lawful authority, prints, photographs, makes or exe-
cutes any print or impression in the likeness of a certificate of arrival, declara-
tion of intention to become a citizen, or certificate of naturalization or citizen-
ship, or any part thereof
                              —
   Shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or
both. (June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 767, eff. Sept. 1, 1948.)

§ 1427. Sale of naturalization or citizenship papers.
   Whoever unlawfully sells or disposes of a declaration of intention to become a
citizen, certificate of naturalization, certificate of citizenship or copies or du-
plicates or other documentary evidence of naturalization or citizenship, shall be
fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both. (June
25, 1948, ch. G45, § 1, 62 Stat. 767, eff. Sept. 1, 1948. )

§ 1428. Surrender of canceled naturalization certificate.
   Whoever, having in his possession or control a certificate of naturalization or
citizenship or a copy thereof which has been canceled as provided by law, fails
to surrender the same after at least sixty days' notice by the appropriate court
or the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Immigration, shall be fined not
more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both. (June 25,
1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 767, eff. Sept. 1, 1948. )

                         PASSPORTS AND VISA OFFENSES
                        Chapter 75.—PASSPORTS AND VISAS
Sec.
1541.   Issuance without authority.
1542.   False statement in application and use of passport.
1543.   Forgery or false use of passport.
1544.   Misuse of passport.
1545.   Safe conduct violation.
1546.   Fraud and misuse of visas and permits.
§1541. Issuance without authority.
   Whoever, acting or claiming to act in any oflice or capacity under the United
States, or a State or possession, without lawful authority grants, issues, or ver-
ifies any passport or other instrument in the nature of a passport to or for any
person whomsoever or    ;


   Whoever, being a consular officer authorized to grant, issue, or certify passports,
knowingly and willfully grants, issues, or verifies any such passport to or for
any person not owing allegiance, to the United States, whether a citizen or not
                                                                                   —
   Shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than one year, or
both.   (.Tune 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 771, eff. Sept. 1, 1948.)

§ 1542. False statement in application and use of passport.
   Whoever willfully and knowingly makes any false statement            in an appli-
cation for passport with intent to induce or secure the issuance       of a passport
under the authority of the United States, either for his own use or    the use of an-
other, contrary to the laws regulating the issuance of passports or    the rules pre-
scribed pursuant to such laws or        ;
186 ANNUAL REPORT, COAIMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

  Whoever willfully and knowingly uses or attempts to use, or furnishes to
another for use any passport the issue of which was secured in any way by reason
of any false statement      —
  Shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or
both.  (June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 771, eft. Sept. 1, 1948.)
§ 1543. Forgery or false use of passport.
   Whoever falsely makes, forges, counterfeits, mutilates, or alters any passport
or instrument purporting to be a passport, with intent that the same may be used ;
or
   Whoever willfully and knowingly uses, or attempts to use, or furnishes to an-
other for use any such false, forged, counterfeited, mutilated, or altered passport
or instrument purporting to be a passport, or any passport validly issued which
has become void by the occurrence of any condition therein prescribed invalidating
the same   —
   Shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or
both.   (June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 771, eff. Sept. 1, 1948.)
§ 1544. Misuse of passport.
  Whoever      willfully   and knowingly uses, or attempts to use, any passport issued
or designed for the use of another      or
                                        ;

  Whoever willfully and knowingly uses or attempts to use any passport in vio-
lation of the conditions or restrictions therein contained, or of the rules pre-
scribed pursuant to the laws regulating the issuance of passports ; or
  Whoever willfully and knowingly furnishes, disposes of, or delivers a passport
to any person, for use by another than the person for whose use it was originally
Issued and designed    —
  Shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or
both.   (June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 1, 62 Stat. 771, eff. Sept. 1, 1948.)



                             INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
                                     (26 U. S. C. 101)

§ 101.   Exemptions from tax on corporations
  The following organizations  shall be exempt from taxation under   this chapter                   —
   (1) Labor, agricultural, or horticultural organizations;
   (2) Mutual savings banJjs not having a capital stock represented by shares;
   (3) Fraternal beneficiary societies * * *
   (4) Domestic building and loan associations substantially all the business of
which is confined to making loans to members * * * ;


   (5) Cemetery companies owned and operated exclusively for the benefit of
their members * * *
                      * * *
   (6) Corporations         organized and operated exclusively for religious, chari-
                                                            * * *          no part of the net earn-
table, scientific, literary, or educational pui-poses
                                                            *     *    *                *   *   *
ings of which inures to the benefit of any private                         individual



COOPERATION BETWEEN BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT IN DEALING
              WITH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
                           Presidential Directive (13 F. R. 1359)

                            DIRECTIVE OF MARCH              13,       1948

               [Confidential Status of Employee Loyalty Records]

memorandtim to all officers and employees              in   the executive branch of the
                               government
   The eflBcient and just administration of the Employee Loyalty Program, under
Executive Order No. 9835 of March 21, 1947, requires that reports, records, and
files relative to the program be preserved in strict confidence. This is necessary
in the interest of our national security and welfare, to preserve the confidential
character and sources of information furnished, and to protect Government per-
      ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 187

sonnel against the dissemination of unfounded or disproved allegations. It is
necessary also in order to insure the fair and Just disposition of loyalty cases.
  For these reasons, and in accordance with the long-established policy that re-
ports rendered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other investigative
agencies of the executive branch are to be regarded as confidential, all reports,
records, and files relative to the loyalty of employees or prospective employees
(including reports of such investigative agencies), shall be maintained in con-
fidence, and shall not be transmitted or disclosed except as required in the efll-
cient conduct of business.
  Any subpena or demand or request for information, reports, or files of the na-
ture described, received from sources other than those persons in the executive
branch of the Government who are entitled thereto by reason of their official
duties, shall be respectfully declined, on the basis of this directive, and the sub-
pena or demand or other request shall be referred to the Office of the President
for such response as the President may determine to be in the public interest in
the particular case. There shall be no relaxation of the provisions of this direc-
tive except with my express authority.
  This directive shall be published in the Fedebal Register.
                                                                                             Harry      S.   Truman
  The White House,
                March 13,   1948.

                   [F. R. Doc.   48-2337   ;   Filed,   Mar.   15,   1948   ;   1   :   12   p.   m.]



                            FEDERAL LOYALTY PROGRAM
                                      (18 F. R. 2489)
                                 EXECUTIVE ORDER                     10450

                Secubitt Requirements for Government Employment
  Whereas the interests of the national security require that all persons privi-
leged to be employed in the departments and agencies of the Government, shall be
reliable, trustworthy, of good conduct and character, and of complete and un-
swerving loyalty to the United States and          ;


  Whereas the American tradition that all persons should receive fair, impartial,
and equitable treatment at the hands of the Government requires that all persons
seeking the privilege of employment or privileged to be employed in the depart-
ments and agencies of the Government be adjudged by mutually consistent and no
less than minimum standards and procedures among the departments and agen-
cies governing the employment and retention in employment of persons in the
Federal service:
  Now, therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
statutes of the United States, including section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States (5 U. S. C. 631) the Civil Service Act of 1883 (22 Stat.' 403; 5
                                      ;


U. S. C. 632, et seq.) section 9A of the act of August 2, 1939, 53 Stat. 1148 (5 U.
                        ;


S. C. 118 j); and the act of August 26, 1950, 64 Stat. 476 (5 U. S. C. 22-1, et seq.),
and as President of the United States, and deeming such action necessary in the
best interests of the national security, it is hereby ordered as follows                                     :



   Section 1. In addition to the departments and agencies specified in the said act
of August 26, 1950, and Executive Order No. 10237 of April 26, 1951, the provisions
of that act shall apply to all other departments and agencies of the Government.
   Sec. 2. The head of each department and agency of the Government shall be
responsible for establishing and maintaining within his department or agency an
effective program to insure that the employment and retention in employment of
any civilian officer or employee within the department or agency is clearly con-
sistent with the interests of the national security.
   Sec. 3. (a) The appointment of each civilian officer or employee in any de-
partment or agency of the Government shall be made subject to investigation.
The scope of the investigation shall be determined in the first instance accord-
ing to the degree of adverse effect the occupant of the position sought to be filled
could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the position, on the national
security, but in no event shall the investigation include less than a national
agency check (including a check of the fingerprint files of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation), and written inquiries to appropriate local law-enforcement
188 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

agencies, former employers and supervisors, references, and schools attended
by the person under investigation Provided, That upon request of the head of
                                   :


the department or agency concerned, the Civil Service Commission may, in its
discretion, authorize such less investigation as may meet the requirements of
the national security with respect to per diem, intermittent, temporary, or sea-
sonal employees, or aliens employed outside the United States. Should there de-
velop at any stage of investigation information indicating that the employment
of any such person may not be clearly consistent with the interests of the na-
tional security, there shall be conducted with respect to such person a full field
investigation, or such less investigation as shall be sufficient to enable the head
of the department or agency concerned to determine whether retention of such
person is clearly consistent with the interests of the national security.
   (b) The head of any department or agency shall designate, or cause to be
designated, any position within his department or agency the occupant of
which could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the position, a material ad-
verse effect on the national security as a sensitive position. Any position so
designated shall be filled or occupied only by a person with respect to whom a
full field investigation has been conducted    :
                                                   Provided, That a person occupy-
ing a sensitive position at the time it is designated as such may continue to
occupy such position pending the completion of a full field investigation, sub-
ject to the other provisions of this order And provided further. That in case
                                           :


of emergency a sensitive position may be filled for a limited period by a person
with respect to whom a full field preappointment investigation has not been
completed if the head of the department or agency concerned finds that such
action is necessary in the national interest, which finding shall be made a part
of the records of such department or agency.
   Sec. 4. The head of each department and agency shall review, or cause to be
reviewed, the cases of all civilian officers and employees with respect to whom
there has been conducted a full field investigation under Executive Order No.
9835 of March 21, 1947, and, after such further investigation as may be appro-
priate, shall re-adjudicate, or cause to be re-adjudicated, in accordance with the
said act of August 26, 1950, such of those cases as have not been adjudicated
under a security standard commensurate with that established under this order.
   Sec. 5. Whenever there is developed or received by any department or agency
information indicating that the retention in employment of any officer or employee
of the Government may not be clearly consistent with the interests of the na-
tional security, such information shall he forwarded to the head of the employ-
ing department or agency or his representative, who, after such investigation
as may be appropriate, shall review, or cause to be reviewed, and, where neces-
sary, I'e-adjudicate, or cause to be re-adjudicated, in accordance with the said
act of August 26, 1950, the case of such officer or employee.
   Sec. 6. Should there develop at any stage of investigation information indi-
cating that the employment of any officer or employee of the Government may
not be clearly consistent with the interests of the national security, the head
of the department or agency concerned or his representative shall immediately
suspend the employment of the person involved if he deems such suspension
necessary in the interests of the national security and, following such investiga-
tion and review as he deems necessary, the head of the department or agency
concerned shall terminate the employment of such suspended officer or employee
whenever he shall determine such termination necessary or advisable in the
interests of the national security. In accordance with the said act of August 26,
1950.
   Sec. 7. "A.ny person whose employment is suspended or terminated under the
authority granted to heads of departments and agencies by or in accordance
with the said act of August 26, 19.">0, or pursuant to the said Executive Order
No. 9835 or any other security or loyalty program relating to officers or em-
ployees of the Government, shall not be reinstated or restored to duty or reem-
ployed in the same department or agency and shall not be reemployed in any
other department or agency, unless the head of the department or agency con-
cerned finds that such reinstatement, restoration, or reemployment is clearly
consistent with the interests of the national security, which finding shall be
made a part of the records of such department or agency: Provided, that no
person whose employment has been terminated under such authority thereafter
may be employed by any other department or agency except after a determination
by the Civil Service Commission that suf^h person is eligible for such employment.
   Sec. 8. (a) The investigations conducted pursuant to this order shall be
designed to develop information as to whether the employment or retention in
         ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 189

employment     in the Federal service of the person being investigated is clearly
consistent with the interests of the national security. Such information shall
relate, but shall not be limited, to the following
                                                :


   (1) Depending on the relation of the Government employment to the national
security  :



   (i) Any behavior, activities, or associations which tend to show that the
individual is not reliable or trustworthy.
   (ii) Any deliberate misrepresentations, falsifications, or omissions of material
facts.
   (iii) Any criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful
conduct, habitual use of intoxicants to excess, drug addiction, or sexual
perversion.
   (iv) An adjudication of insanity, or treatment for serious mental or neurologi-
cal disorder without satisfactory evidence of cure.
   (v) Any facts which furnish reason to believe that the individual may be sub-
jected to coercion, influence, or pressure which may cause him to act contrary to
the best interests of the national security.
   (2) Commission of any act of sabotage, espionage, treason, or sedition, or
attempts thereat or preparation therefor, or conspiring with, or aiding or abetting,
another to commit or attempt to commit any act of sabotage, espionage, treason,
or sedition.
   (.3) Establishing or continuing a sympathetic association with a saboteur, spy,
traitor, seditionist, anarchist, or revolutionist, or with an espionage or other
secret agent or representative of a foreign nation, or any representative of a
foreign nation whose interests may be inimical to the interests of the United
States, or with any person who advocates the use of force or violence to over-
throw the government of the United States or the alteration of the form of
government of the United States by unconstitutional means.
   (4) Advocacy of use of force or violence to overthrow the government of the
United States, or of the alteration of the form of government of the United States
by unconstitutional means.
   (5) Membership in, or affiliation or sympathetic association with, any foreign
or domestic organization, association, movement, group, or combination of per-
sons which is totalitarian. Fascist, Communist, or subversive, or which has
adopted, or shows, a policy of advocating or approving the commission of the acts
of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of
the United States, or which seeks to alter the form of government of the United
States by unconstitutional means.
   (6) Intentional, unauthorized disclosure to any person of security informa-
tion, or of other information disclosure of which is prohibited by law, or willful
violation or disregard of security regulations.
   (7) Performing or attempting' to perform his duties, or otherwise acting, so
as to serve the interests of another government in preference to the interests
of the United States.
   (b) The investigation of persons entering or employed in the comijetitive serv-
ice shall primarily be the responsibility of the Civil Service Commission, except
in cases in which the head of a department or agency assumes that responsibility
pursuant to law or by agreement with the Commission. The Commission shall
furnish a full investigative report to the department or agency concerned.
    (c) The investigation of persons (including consultants, however employed),
entering employment of, or employed by, the Government other than in the com-
petitive service shall primarily be the responsibility of the employing department
or agency. Departments and agencies without investigative facilities may use
 the investigative facilities of the Civil Service Commission, and other depart-
ments and agencies may use such facilities under agreement with the Com-
mission.
    (d) There shall be referred promptly to the Federal Bureau of Investigation
all investigations being conducted by any other agencies which develop informa-
 tion indicating that an individual may have been subjected to coercion, influence,
 or pressure to act contrary to the interests of the national security, or informa-
 tion relating to any of the matters described in subdivisions (2) through (7) of
 subsection (a) of this section. In cases so referred to it, the Federal Bureau of
 Investigation shall make a full field investigation.
   Sec. 9. (a) There shall be established and maintained in the Civil Service
 Commission a secui'ity-investigations index covering all persons as to whom
 security investigations have been conducted by any department or agency of the
 Government under this order. The central index established and maintained
190 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIYITIES

by the Commission under Executive Order No. 9835 of March 21, 1947, shall be
made   a part of the security-investigations index. The security-investigations
index shall contain the name of each person investigated, adequate identifying
information concerning each such person, and a reference to each department
and agency which has conducted an investigation concerning the person involved
or has suspended or terminated the employment of such person under the author-
ity granted to heads of departments and agencies by or in accordance vs^ith the
said act of August 26, 1950.
   (b) The heads of all departments and agencies shall furnish promptly to the
Civil Service Commission information appropriate for the establishment and
maintenance of the security-investigation index.
   (c) The reports and other investigative material and information developed
by investigations conducted pursuant to any statute, order, or program de-
scribed in section 7 of this order shall remain the property of the investigative
agencies conducting the investigations, but may, subject to considerations of the
national security, be retained by the department or agency concerned. Such
reports and other investigative material and information shall be maintained in
confidence, and no access shall be given thereto except, vpith the consent of the
investigative agency concerned, to other departments and agencies conducting
security programs under the authority granted by or in accordance with the said
act of August 26, 1950, as may be required for the efficient conduct of Govern-
ment business.
   Sec. 10. Nothing in this order shall be construed as eliminating or modifying
in any way the requirement for any investigation or any determination as to
security which may be required by law.
   Sec. 11. On and after the effective date of this order the Loyalty Review
Board established by Executive Order No. 9835 of March 21, 1947, shall not ac-
cept agency findings for review, upon ap]ieal or otherwise. Appeals pending
before the Loyalty Review Board on such date shall be heard to final determina-
tion in accordance with the provisions of the said Executive Order No. 9835,
as amended. Agency determination favorable to the officer or employee con-
cerned pending before the Loyalty Review Board on such date shall be acted
upon by such Board, and whenever the Board is not in agreement with such
favorable determination the case shall be remanded to the department or agency
concerned for determination in accordance with the standards and procedures
established pursuant to this order. Cases pending before the regional loyalty
boards of the Civil Service Commission on which hearings have not been initiated
on such date shall be referred to the department or agency concerned. Cases
being heard by regional loyalty boards on such date shall be heard to conclusion,
and the determination of the board shall be forwarded to the head of the depart-
ment or agency concerned Provided, that if no specific department or agency
                           :



is involved, the case shall be dismissed without prejudice to the applicant.  In-
vestigations pending in the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the Civil Service
Commission on such date shall be completed, and the reports thereon shall be
made to the appropriate department or agency.
   Sec. 12. Executive Order No. 9835 of March 21, 1947, as amended, is hereby
revoked. For the purposes described in section 11 hereof the Loyalty Review
Board and the regional loyalty boards of the Civil Service Commission shall
continue to exist and function for a period of one hundred and twenty days from
*he effective date of this order, and the Department of Justice shall continue
to furnish the information described in paragraph 3 of Part III of the said
Executive Order No. 9835, but directly to the head of each department and agency.
   Sec. 13. The Attorney General is requested to render to the heads of depart
ments and agencies such advice as may be requisite to enable them to establish
and maintain an appropriate employee-security program.
   Sec. 14. (a) The Civil Service Commission, with the continuing advice and
collaboration of representatives of such departments and agencies as the National
Security Council may designate, shall make a continuing study of the manner
in which this order is being implemented by the departments and agencies of the
Government for the purpose of determining  :



   (1) Deficiencies in the department and agency security programs established
under this order which are inconsistent with the interests of, or directly or
indirectly weaken, the national security.
    (2) Tendencies in such programs to deny to individual employees fair, im-
partial, and equitable treatment at the hands of the Government, or rights under
the Constitution and laws of the United States or this order.
   Information affecting any department or agency developed or received during
 the course of such continuing study shall be furnished immediately to the head
            ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 191

of the  department or agency concerned. The Civil Service Commission shall
report to tlie National Security Council, at least semiannually, on the results of
such study, and shall recommend means to correct any such deficiencies or
tendencies.
   (b) All departments and agencies of the Government are directed to cooperate
with the Civil Service Commission to facilitate the accomplishment of the
responsibilities assigned to it by subsection (a) of this section.
  Sec. 15. This order shall become effective thirty days after the date hereof.
                                                                              DwiGHT                 D. Eisenhower
  The White House,
                    April 27, 1953.
                     [F. R. Doc.   53-3794   ;   Filed, Apr. 27,   1953; 4     :       04   p.   m.]



COOPERATION BETWEEN BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT IN DEALING
              WITH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
                                         (18 F. R. 6583)

                                   EXECUTIVE ORDER                  10491

Amendment of ExECUTrvE Order        No. 10450 of April 27. 1953, Relating to Se-
                  curity Requirements for Goveknment Employment

  By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, including section 1753 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
(5 U. S. C. 631)    the Civil Service Act of 1883 (22 Stat. 403; 5 U. S. C. 632, et
                      ;


seq.)  section 9A of the act of August 2, 1939, 53 Stat. 1148 (5 U. S. C. 118 j)
        ;                                                                                                            ;


and the act of August 26, 1950, 64 Stat. 476 (5 U. S. C. 22-1, et seq.), and as
President of the United States, and finding such action necessary in the best in-
terests of the national security, it is hereby ordered as follows                                    :



   Subsection (a) of section 8 of Executive Order No. 10450 of April 27, 1953,
relating to security requirements for Government employment, is hereby amended
by adding thereto at the end thereof paragraph (8) as follows                                    :



  "(8) Refusal by the individual, upon the ground of constitutional privilege
against self-incrimination, to testify before a congressional committee regarding
charges of his alleged disloyalty or other misconduct."
                                                          Dwight D. Eisenhower
   The White House,
               October 13, 1953
                     [F. R. Doc.   53-&890   ;   Filed, Oct. 15,   1953   ;   10   :   51   a.   m.]



RESTRICTION OF AMERICAN TRAVEL IN IRON CURTAIN COUNTRIES
       State Department Regulation 108.162 (17 F. R. 8013), filed September 1952

                          CHAPTER I—DEPARTMENT OF STATE
                                        [Dept. Reg. 108.162]

                                       Pakt 51         —Passports
                 Subpart   B —Regulations              of the Secretaby of State

             limitations of issuance of passports              ;
                                                                   notification and appeal

  Pursuant to the authoritv vested in me by paragraph 126 of Executive Order
No. 7S56, i.ssued on March 31, 1938 (3 F. R. 681; 22 CFR 51.77), under authority
of section 1 of the act of Congress approved July 3, 1926 (44 Stat. 887 22 U. S. C.                       ;


211 (a) ), the regulations issued on March 31, 1938 (Departmental Order 749) as
amended (22 CFR 51.101 to 51.134) are hereby further amended by the addition
of new §§ 51.135 to 51.143 as follows              :



Sec.
51.135       Limitations on Issuance of passports to persons supporting Communist movement.
51.136       Limitations on Issuance of passports to persons likely to violate laws of the
                 United States.
51.1.S7      Notification to person whose passport application is tentatively disapproved.
51.138       Appeal by passport applicant.
51.139       Creation and functions of Board of Passport Appeals.
192 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES
51.140    Duty    of Board to advise Secretary of State on action for disposition of appealed
               cases.
51.141    Bases for findings of fact by Board.
51.142    Oath or afiirmation by applicant as to membership in Communist Party.
51.143    Applicability of §§ 51.135 to 51.142.
  Authority:      §§ 51.135 to 51.143 issued   under   sec. 1,   44 Stat. 887; 22   TJ.   S. C.   211a.

  §   51.135Limitations on issuance of passports to persons supporting Com-
munist movement. In order to promote the national interest by assuring that
persons who support the world Communist movement of which the Communist
Party is an integral unit may not, through use of United States passports,
further the purposes of that movement, no passport, except one limited for direct
and immediate return to the United States, shall be issued to               :



   (a) Persons who are members of the Communist Party or who have recently
terminated such membership under such circumstances as to warrant the conclu-
      —
sion not otherwise rebutted by the evidence— that they continue to act in fur-
therance of the interests and under the discipline of the Communist Party                            ;


   (b) Persons, regardless of the formal state of their affiliation with the Com-
munist Party, who engage in activities which support the Communist movement
                                                                       —
under such circumstances as to warrant the conclusion not otherwise rebutted
                   —
by the evidence that they have engaged in such activities as a result of direction,
domination, or control exercised over them by the Communist movement.
   (c) Persons, regardless of the formal state of their affiliation with the Com-
munist Party, as to whom there is reason to believe, on the balance of all the
evidence, that they are going abroad to engage in activities which will advance
the Communist movement for the purpose, knowingly and wilfully of advancing
that movement.
  §   51.136 Limitations on issuance of passports to persons likely to violate laws
of the United States.   In order to promote the national interest by assuring that
the conduct of foreign relations shall be free from unlawful interference, no
passport, except one limited for direct and immediate return to the United
States, shall be issued to persons as to whom there is reason to believe, on the
balance of all the evidence, that they are going abroad to engage in activities
while abroad wliich would violate the laws of the United States, or which if
carried on in the United States would violate such laws designed to protect the
security of the United States.
   § 51.137  Notification to person whose passport application is tentatively dis-
approved. A person whose passport application is tentatively disapproved under
the provisions of § 51.135 or § 51.136 will be notified in writing of the tentative
refusal, and of the reasons on which it is based, as specifically as in the judgment
of the Department of State security considerations permit. He shall be entitled,
upon request, and before such refusal becomes final, to present his case and all
relevant information informally to the Passport Division. He shall be entitled
to appear in person before a hearing officer of the Passport Division, and to be
represented by counsel. He will, upon request, confirm his oral statements in an
affidavit for the record.  After the applicant has presented his case, the Passport
Division will review the record, and after consultation with other interested
offices, advise the applicant of the decision.    If the decision is adverse, such
advice will be in writing and shall state the reasons on which the decision is
based as specifically as within the judgment of the Department of State security
limitations permit.    Such advice shall also inform the applicant of his right to
appeal under § 51.138.
   § 51.138.  Appeal by passport applicant. In the event of a decision adverse to
the applicant, he shall be entitled to appeal his case to the Board of Passport
Appeals provided for in § 51.189.
       ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES 193

RESTRICTIONS ON TRAVEL BY SOVIET AND SATELLITE DIPLOMATS
                                  Department of State
                          For the press March   10, 1952,   No. 181

For release  at 12: 00 noon, E. 8. T., Tuesday, March 11, 1952.        Not   to be previously
     published, quoted from or used in any loay
            REGULATION OF TRAVEL OF SOVIET OFFICIALS IN THE UNITED STATES
  The United States Government has         instituted travel regulations for Soviet
officialsstationed in the United States.
  For some time the Soviet Government has sharply restricted the travel of
foreign officials including United States representatives stationed in the U. S. S. R.
A short time ago the Soviet Government further increased these travel restric-
tions.  The United States Government has therefore instituted regulations gov-
erning the travel of Soviet officials in the United States. This step has been
taken reluctantly, because the American people and their Government believe
that such treatment of foreign representatives by a receiving state is not neces-
sary, customary or correct nor is it conducive to the proper conduct of relations
between nations. Unfortunately, the Soviet Government does not appear to share
this view, but rather it has tended constantly toward the imposition of greater
restrictions on the legitimate activities of foreign officials.
   The present regulations are outlined in a note sent March 10 to the Soviet
Embassy in Washington. A copy of this note is appended.
  As is"^made clear in the note to the Soviet Embassy, the United              States   is   pre-
pared at any time to reexamine the question of travel regulations in the light
of the treatment accorded United States official representatives in the Soviet
Union.


TEXT OF NOTE FROM SECRETAEY OF STATE DEAN ACHESON TO THE AMBASSADOR OF THE
            UNION OF   S0\T:ET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS,   ALEXANDER   S.   PANYUSHKIN

  The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Am-
bassador of the Union of Soviet Socialist llepublics and has the honor to invite
the Ambassador's attention to note No. 46/PR of January 15, 1952, note No.
1130/PR of September 30, 1948, and the note verbale dated May 16, 1941, ad-
dressed to the United States Embassy at Moscow by the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, the effect of which has been to restrict the travel in the Soviet Union
of American diplomatic and consular officers, as well as of the other members of
the staff of the American Embassy at Moscow.
   In view of the restrictions which have been placed upon the travel of American
diplomatic and consular representatives and the employees in the Soviet Union,
the Government of the United States is constrained to regulate the travel of
Soviet personnel assigned to the Emba.ssy in Washington, Soviet representatives
of the official Soviet news agency, Tass, and Soviet representatives of other pub-
licity media who are assigned for duty in Washington, and Soviet official person-
nel assigned to Amtorg in New York. Effective immediately Soviet official per-
sonnel of the Embassy in Wa.shington, Tass representatives, and others who are
Soviet citizens assigned for newspaper work in Washington are required not to
travel to any point more than 25 miles distant from the center of Washington
without previous official notification at least 48 hours in advance. Soviet official
personnel assigned to Amtorg shall not travel to any point more than 25 miles
distant from the center of New York City without previous official notification at
least 48 hours in advance.
194 ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

   In the case of Soviet civilian ofl5cials, the notification should be addressed to
the Department of State and in the case of Soviet military personnel to the ap-
                              ;


propriate Army, Navy or Air Force foreign liaison office. Notification should
contain the name of each traveler, complete and detailed information concerning
his projected travel, including itinerary, points of stopover, and duration of
journey.
  The United States Government observes that by reason of the action of the
Soviet Government in restricting the travel of United States official personnel
in the U. S. S. R. it is compelled similarly to regulate Soviet official personnel. At
the same time the United States Government states it is prepared to re-examine
the question of travel regulations in the light of the treatment accorded United
States official representatives in the Soviet Union.

Travel Resteictions Placed By the Soviet Govenbment on American Officials
                                      IN   the   U. S. S. R.

  Travel restrictions were first placed upon American officials as well as other
foreign representatives in the U. S. S. R. by a circular note from the Soviet For-
eign Office to foreign missions in Moscow dated May 16, 1941. The Soviet note
declared travel to certain points and localities prohibited and established a pro-
cedure under which travel on the territory of the U. S. S. R. by members of foreign
embassies, legations, and consulates may take place "only on condition that such
persons previously inform appropriate organs of the Peoples Commissariat for
Foreign Affairs, Peoples Commissariat for Defense, and Peoples Commissariat for
Navy with regard to trips planned, indicating itinerary, points of stopover, and
length of travel so that such trips may be registered by above-mentioned organs."
    On June 7, 1941 the United States imposed retaliatory restrictions which
required Soviet officials in this country to secure permits for travel more than 100
miles outside of Washington (and 50 miles outside of New York and San
Francisco). These retaliatory restrictions were withdrawn shortly after the
German attack on the U. S. S. R.
  The Soviet regulations were not officially withdrawn although application of
the provisions was relaxed for a short time at the end of the war. By 1947 it
had become evident that the Soviet authorities were actively hindering the
movements of official American personnel outside of Moscow. In the summer of
1948 the hindrances were extended to automobile travel only a short distance
from Moscow.
  On September 30, 1948, the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs notified the
American Embassy and other foreign missions at Moscow that the 1941 restric-
tions were still in effect and added a new and greatly expanded list of localities
closed to travel by members of the staffs of foreign missions. Under the 1948
procedure, however, foreign officials were required to give the Soviet Foreign
Office (military                  —
                personnel the Foreign Liaison Section of the Ministry of Armed
Forces) 48 hours advance notice of their intention to travel more than 50 kilo-
meters outside of Moscow. Beyond this 50 kilometer zone travel was permitted
only by public carrier except to three points of historic interest near the city.
Even within this 50 kilometer perimeter certain areas were forbidden for travel,
with the result that automobile travel to the 50 kilometer limit was possible on
only four highways.
  In general, the border areas, the Central Asian Republics, the Caucasus region
with the exception of Tiflis, the Baltic States, and the Western areas of the
Ukraine and Byelorussia, including the capital cities of Kiev and Minsk were
placed within the zones prohibited to foreign officials. Although most of the
Siberian area was left technically "free," in practice it was greatly restricted
owing to the fact that the important cities were forbidden areas and therefore
no   facilities   were available for foreign
                                         visitors.
     On January 15, 1952, the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs prohibited 22 addi-
tional cities of the U. S. S. R. to foreigners and reduced the zone around Moscow
from 50 to 40 kilometers from the center of the city. In addition, several more
districts within the 40 kilometer limit were placed            on the prohibited list, thus
reducing to a great extent the number of places to             which foreign officials may
travel in the U. S. S. R. or in the Moscow area.
        ANNUAL REPORT, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN                    ACTIVITIES 195

RESTRICTION OF AMERICAN TRAVEL IN IRON CURTAIN COUNTRIES
              Department of State for the Press May     1,   1952, No. 341

     The Department of State announced today that it was taking additional steps
to    warn American citizens of the risks of travel in Iron Curtain countries by
stamping all passports not valid for travel in those countries unless specifically
endorsed by the Department of State for such travel.
  In making this announcement, the Department emphasized that this pro-
cedure in no way forbids American travel to those areas. It contemplates that
American citizens will consult the Department or the Consulates abroad to as-
certain the dangers of traveling in countries where acceptable standards of
protection do not prevail and that, if no objection is perceived,
                                                                  the travel may
be authorized.
  All new passports will be stamped as follows  :


  This passport is not valid for travel to Albania, Bulgaria, China, Czechoslo-
vakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
unless specifically endorsed under authority of the Department of State as
being valid for such travel.
  All outstanding passports, which are equally subject to the restriction, will
be so endorsed as occasion permits.



               MAILING PRIVILEGES OF FOREIGN EMBASSIES
           Department of State for the Press December        31, 1953,   No. 680

                Ban on Rumanian Publications In United States
  In a note delivered to the Rumanian legation today, the Department of State
notified the legation to cease forthwith the publication and distribution within
the United States of "The Romanian News", a periodical issued by the Legation.
At the same time, the Department directed the Legation to stop the distribution
of other similar pamphlets published at the expense of the Rumanian Govern-
ment or its organs.
  This step was taken as a result of the action of the Rumanian Government
in banning the further distribution in Rumania of a publication issued by our
Legation in Bucharest entitled "Stir din America" (News from America). On
December 29, our Minister to Rumania, Mr. Harold Shantz, was notified by the
Foreign Oflice that our Legation must cease the distribution of the American
publication. This publication was a small monthly bulletin which sought to
give its readers an accurate picture of American life and thought. The first
issue appeared in October of this year its circulation was approximately 1,600
                                        ;



copies.
      text of the United Staets note is as follows
     The                                            :


   "The Secretary of State presents  his compliments to the Honorable the Min-
ister of Rumania and has the honor   to refer to the dissemination of publications
within the United States at the instance of the Rumanian Legation. Special
reference is made to the periodical bulletin entitled. The Romanian News.
   "As the Legation is doubtless aware, the Rumanian Government has requested
 the American Legation at Bucharest to cease further distribution in Rumania
 of a periodical issued by that Legation entitled Neivs From America.
   "Accordingly, the Department of State requests the Rumanian Legation to
 cease forthwith the publication and distribution in the United States of The
 Romanian News. The distribution in the United States by the Rumanian Lega-
 tion of other similar pamphlets published at the expense of the Rumanian Gov-
 ernment or its organs should also be terminated."

                                        o
'ry'[;W:-'-umm

