Mr. PEPPER. Jack Pepper, P-e-p-p-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have a middle name?
Mr. PEPPER. Only one I assumed in a moment of foolishness when I was in junior high school. I liked the name of Lawrence. It is not legal, and I use it today sometimes to identify myself from other Jack Peppers in this particular vicinity.
Mr. TAVENNER. So you use the name Jack L. Pepper?
Mr. PEPPER. Only, shall we say, sometimes in a legal sense.
Mr. SCHERER. He said he is known as Lawrence Pepper. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. PEPPER. NO. 
Mr. SCHERER. I misunderstood you.
Mr. PEPPER. No. I am known as Jack Pepper.
Mr. SCHERER. What did you say about Lawrence? I misunderstood you.
Mr. PEPPER. I assumed that name when I was in junior high school. I believe I thought that probably I should have a middle name for the year book or some such stupid reason. However, I found it convenient because there was another Jack Pepper recently; I mean in the last 10 years, whose identity has become mixed with mine. Therefore, I have used the name "L" or the initial "L" for purposes of identification.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record ?
Mr. RYKOFE. Richard Rykoff.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Pepper? (Representative Donald I. Jackson returned to the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. PEPPER. Philadelphia, Pa., in the year 1910. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3965 
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. PEPPER. Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Los Angeles?
Mr. PEPPER. On and off, I would say, since I was 4 or 5 years old. I have gone back East several times for schooling.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. PEPPER. Musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been engaged in the practice of your profession in Los Angeles?
Mr. PEPPER. Well, I think a very good answer is one given yesterday-since I was 5 years old.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been.
Mr. PEPPER. Well, the usual kindergartens and secondary schools. I went to high school, here in Los Angeles. I was given a scholarship by Howard Hanson and Eugene Goossens-that is spelled G-o-o-s-s-e-n-s, a very eminent English conductor-to the University of Rochester, and that is, Eastman School of Music. There I remained for 2 years, I would say, in a period prior to 1930. At any rate, I played in the Rochester Philharmonic then, and from that point on I went to the Curtis Institute where I studied violin with Leopold Auer, A-u-e-r. At any rate, he taught Heifetz and a few of the other favored musicians today. I graduated from this institution and came back to Los Angeles where I was a member of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. After that time I went into the studio work, and, subsequent to the war-I would say 2 or 3 years-I was asked to join the Coolidge Quartet, which is a rather famous quartet. Probably in Washington you may have heard of this. We were commissioned by the Library of Congress to play in all the universities, including State universities, in the country. We were commissioned to play new American works, which we did. And I was with them until the time that I volunteered for the Army, which was in 1942, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you serve in the Army?
Mr. PEPPER. Three years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. PEPPER. Do you wish to know more about the Army days?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, if there is any information you desire to give the committee.
Mr. PEPPER. It has to do with my musical experience, I suppose. A year spent with the Army Air Forces, and finally tranferred to the Armed Forces Radio Service where we were responsible for the making of programs sent overseas-Command Performance, Mail Call, Jubilee, At Ease, and all the things which you may have heard about. After having left the Army, being discharged some 3 years later, I did studio work under contract to several studios. Or two studios. And at the present time I am a free-lance musician.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Pepper, you were living in Los Angeles in 1948; were you not?
Mr. PEPPER. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And did you, in 1948, have personal knowledge of a plan of the Communist Party to use musicians who had joined an organized group of the Communist Party to circulate the Independent 3966 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA Progressive Party petition to put that party on the ballot in the State of California?
Mr. PEPPER. I refuse to answer that question for the following reasons: on the grounds of the first amendment, which states that Congress shall not abridge the rights of the people in the field of ideas, beliefs, opinions, or associations. The purpose of the committee is infringement of the right, or these rights, and I believe the objective is illegal. Secondly, on the basis of the fourth amendment, at least that portion of the fourth amendment which declares the right of a people to be secure in their persons, secure from unreasonable searches. And this to meOf course, I am not a legal man. However, this to me, means just what it says. I feel that in this case the amendment is being violated because privacy of my thought and privacy of my associations are being violated. Further, the third reason I refuse to testify is that under the fifth amendment I am accorded the privilege of refusing to give testimony which may be used against me at some future time. These privileges do exist for the innocent, and I assert these rights to prevent their destruction, gentlemen. My last and final reason is on that provision of the fifth amendment which provides that no man shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property and, gentlemen, my property is the creation of music, and I am going to fight for my right to work. I do protest the economic and social sanctions that are imposed because of this committee, imposed on those witnesses who are unfriendly to the committee's unconstitutional aims.
Mr. JACKSON. Regular order, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a document marked for identification only as "Jack L. Pepper Exhibit No. 1." It is a photostatic copy of an Independent Progressive Party of California petition, at the end of which there is an affidavit bearing the name, as the affiant, Jack L. Pepper. I ask you whether or not your name appears as the affiant on that petition, and whether it was signed by you? (Document handed to the witness and his counsel.) (Representative Morgan M. Moulder left the hearing room at this point.)
Mr. PEPPER. I will refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated, that it is an invasion of my rights.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the document in evidence marked as "Jack L. Pepper Exhibit No. 1."
Mr. DoYLE (presiding). It will be so received. (This exhibit is similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 1, p. 3957, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, the affidavit bears the date of January 31, 1948, over the signature of Jack L. Pepper. The affidavit states that the affiant solicited the signatures therein set forth. Where did you live, Mr. Pepper, in 1948 ?
Mr. PEPPER. May I ask the materiality of that question, sir?
Mr. TAVENNER. No; just answer the question, or refuse to answer it and take your chances on whether it is material or not. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 3967 
Mr. PEPPER. In that case, I shall certainly decline to answer the question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever live at 1501 Murray Drive, Los Angeles 26, Calif.?
Mr. PEPPER. I believe you heard my statement. I think it is on the record.
Mr. DOYLE. That is not the same question, sir.
Mr. PEPPER. It is not?
Mr. DoYLE. He asked you where you lived and you pleaded the amendment. Now he asked you if you lived at a specific address.
Mr. PEPPER. As far as I am concerned, that is the same question. However, I shall be happy to decline to answer that question for the same reasons. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you now a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. PEPPER. Same reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. You refuse to answer for the same reasons? 
Mr. PEPPER. Yes; I decline to answer for the same reasons.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. DoYLE. Any questions? 
Mr. JACKSON. No questions.
Mr. SCHERER. No questions.
Mr. DoYLE. The witness is dismissed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Jean Musick.
Mr. DOYLE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. MusICK. Yes; I do. TESTIMONY OF JEAN C. MUSICK, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, RICHARD L. RYKOFF
