Mr. SHERMAN. Louis Sherman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have a middle initial?
Mr. SHERMAN. R.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel accompanying the witness please identify himself for the record.
Mr. MARGOLIS. Ben Margolis of Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Sherman?
Mr. SHERMAN. Chicago, Ill., January 15,1910.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you now reside?
Mr. SHERMAN. Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in Los Angeles?
Mr. SHERMAN. For about 37 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your formal educational training has been.
Mr. SHERMAN. I have completed high school at Polytechnic Evening High School. I have had about 2 years of school at the extension division of the formerly Los Angeles City College and University of California.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived in California ?
Mr. SHERMAN. 37 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, what your employment has consisted of since 1935 ?
Mr. SHERMAN. For the past 18 to 20 years I have been employed within the warehouse industry in Los Angeles, for various companies. And presently I am an officer of local 26, the secretary and treasurer of the International Longshoremen and Warehousemen's Union, better known as ILWU.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you been secretary-treasurer of local 26? 4022 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SHERMAN. For about 7 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to that period how were you employed?
Mr. SHERMAN. I was president of local 26, ILWU.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time ?
Mr. SHERMAN. For about 3 to 31/2 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. And that takes us back 10 years. How were you employed prior to that time ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I was in the United States Army for about 2 years and 9 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was during what period of time?
Mr. SHERMAN. From 1943 to late 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. And prior to 1943 what was your employment ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I was employed by the international union, the International Longshoremen and Warehousemen's Union, assigned to local 26 as a representative, and served in that capacity as an organizer. a business agent, among other duties.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over what period of time, please, sir?
Mr. SHERMAN. From early 1941 to the middle of 1943.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us, please, what your employment was prior to 1941?
Mr. SHERMAN. I worked as a drug worker for the Brunswick Drug Co.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where? 
Mr. ShERMAN. In Los Angeles, from 1939 to 1941.
Mr. TAVENNER. And prior to 1939?
Mr. SHERMAN. I worked for a number of various companies within the industry like Zellerbach Paper Co., Crane Co., and perhaps a few others I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Does that take care of your employment back approximately through the year 1935 ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I believe so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time legally changed your name?
Mr. SHERMAN. This is my name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you used any other name ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I have been known as Lou Sherman for many, many years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is that your name? Lou Sherman?
Mr. SHERMAN. That is my name.
Mr. SCHERER. Are you going to follow through on that ?
Mr. TAVENNER. You say Lou Sherman is your name. Have you had any other name?
Mr. SHERMAN. I would decline to answer that questionMr. SCHERER. I ask you to direct the witness to answer the question. The witness said he declined to answer.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. SHERMAN. I would decline to answer that question, and invoke the constitutional privileges. If you want me to specify, I shall do so.
Mr. MOULDER. That is up to you, whether you desire to specify or not.
Mr. SHERMAN. I decline to answer that question. I claim the privilege accorded me by the United States Constitution, its Bill of Rights, specifically the first amendment of the United States Constitution which in this hearing room has not been adhered to, and the fifth COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4023 amendment of the United States Constitution which has been distorted by certain members of this committee, and which has been interpreted to imply guilt by any so-called uncooperative witness, but which, to me, affords the same protection to the innocent as well as to the guilty. I also invoke the ninth and tenth amendments of the United States Constitution, which delegates only certain powers to you as Congressmen, but retain the full power to the people of the United States.
Mr. SCHERER. I know you are directing your remarks to me, but what do you expect me to infer of you or any other citizen who refuses to tell us what other name he used and why he used another name?
Mr. SHERMAN. I don't particularly care what you infer.
Mr. SCHERER. I understand that. But I and any other citizen, the press, have a right to infer that there is something sinister if you refuse to disclose what other name you used and why you used another name. Is that right? Under the first amendment I have that right.
Mr. SHERMAN. If you accorded the witness the same privileges under the first amendment perhaps there would be so many more witnesses that might give greater respect to the functioning of this committee. As far as I am concerned, I will stand on the privileges I have claimed, and stand on the answer I have given you.
Mr. TAVENNER. Under what name were you born ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer the question for the same reasons outlined earlier.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question because I do not accept the answer. I can't conceivably see how to answer the question under what name he was born could possibly incriminate this individual. Obviously it is not invoking the fifth amendment in good faith.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question as requested by Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SHERMAN. I will again repeat that I refuse to answer that question on the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Under what name were you married?
Mr. SHERMAN. I will again refuse to answer the question on the same grounds originally stated.
Mr. SCHERER. I move you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer.
Mr. SCHERER. I think we should again say that we do not accept the answer, and we feel that his refusal to answer those questions in all probability will subject him to a prosecution by this committee for contempt.
Mr. MOULDER. Therefore, the witness is directed to answer in order to protect his interest as suggested by Mr. Scherer.
Mr. SHERMAN. I will again repeat that I refuse to answer this question on the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Aren't you Louis R. Schneiderman?
Mr. SHERMAN. I will again refuse to answer on the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you institute in court a proceeding for divorce under the name of Louis R. Schneiderman?
Mr. SHERMAN. I again refuse to answer that question on the same grounds. 77436--56-pt. 10-9 4024 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question. In order to give you an opportunity to answer the question, you are again directed to answer.
Mr. SHERMAN. I will again refuse to answer the same question on the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Aren't you a brother of William Schneiderman?
Mr. SHERMAN. I again refuse to answer the question for the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your father's name ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I again refuse to answer the question for the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. SCHERER. Again let it be understood that we do not accept that answer, and feel that it is an improper invocation of the fifth amendment.
Mr. MOULDER. It is so understood. 
Mr. TAVENNEE. Mr. Louis Rosser testified before the Committee on Un-American Activities in executive session on January 15, 1952, at which time he was asked the question: Do you know Lou Sherman? To which he replied: Yes. Lou Sherman is a brother of William Schneiderman, and I knew him as a trade-union director of the Young Communist League, and then later on as an organizer in the warehousemen's union. Was Mr. Rosser's statement true or false insofar as it related to your relationship with William Schneiderman ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. S-ERMAN. Your question relates to a matter that I believe I have just answered earlier. If that is so, I again refuse to answer on the same grounds stated earlier.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Max Silver testified in executive session before this committee on the 24th day of January 1952, in which he stated: Lou Sherman, brother to William Schneiderman, was organizer for the longshoremen in Los Angeles. Is his statement true or false, insofar as it relates to your connection with William Schneiderman ?
Mr. SHERMAN. It appears to me that your questions are going to relate to the testimony of informers and stool pigeons.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have the opportunity, sir, to tell this committee whether or not you are Louis R. Schneiderman, and I am trying my best to find out who you are. So again I will ask you to answer the question.
Mr. SERMAN. I don't believe that I may ever satisfactorily answer, to the satisfaction of your committee, the answer to your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. There would be no difficulty in answering that question. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4025 
Mr. SHERMAN. My answer is: My identity, my work, my integrity, the things that I have done for 20 or 25 years or more are well known to the members of the organization that I belong to.
Mr. SCHERER. Do they know you are a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. SHERMAN. And represent at the present time.
Mr. SCHERER. Do the members of the organization you represent know you are a member of the Communist Party ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. If this committee proposes to subpena the 2,200 members of this union, that is their prerogative. If it does it only proves what they have been saying to the members of our union about the purposes of this committee.
Mr. SCHERER. We want the people of your union to know everything about you. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer my question, and also state his real name.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question. I will also state that the comments of Congressman Scherer assume something which are only his private opinions.
Mr. SCHERER. Is my assumption that you are a member of the Communist Party incorrect 
Mr. SHERMAN. My purpose in being here is atMr. SCHERER. Answer the question.
Mr. SHERMAN. IS at the discretion and request of the committee.
Mr. SCHERER. IS my assumption then, or my statement, that you are a member of the Communist Party or were a member of the Communist Party untrue? 
Mr. SHERMAN. My answer is that my private opinions, my associations, my background, my history, the work that I have been doing as a representative of the union for many years, is my private right guaranteed to me by the United States Constitution and, therefore, I don't have to account to Mr. Scherer or any other Congressman for those opinions, associations, or background, and, for that reason, I will decline and refuse to answer this question on the grounds already earlier stated.
Mr. MOULDER. It has often been alleged by certain people that persons who are charged with having been members of the Communist Party on the witness stand before this committee have not had the opportunity to deny and defend themselves in a public forum or public hearing before this committee. That opportunity is now being given to you. When you refer to someone as an informer or a stool pigeon it does not occur to me as availing yourself of the full opportunity of denying or affirming the allegations that were read to you by Mr. Tavenner. I just wanted to make that comment and call it to your attention. It is not in the form of a question, but a comment by the Chair. (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. SHERMAN. I would like to comment on that, Mr. Moulder. This may be a forum in the opinion of some Members of the Congress who serve on the committee, but I regard the objectives of this 4026 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA committee as being un-American in that they repress the rights of people to stand on their constitutional rights. I have many times been called a Communist in my dealings with certain employers as a representative of the union. For many years the union that I represent has been maligned, abused, and characterassassinated by unfriendly employers and unfriendly Government officials. I have never stooped to the level of answering these accusations because I consider them the result of my doing a job for the members of my union.
Mr. SCHERER. These people who have called you a Communist and charged you with being a Communist: Were they doing so correctly ?
Mr. SHERMAN. I don't care what motivated them to call me a Communist. I have been called that and other names as a result of the position that I have taken in behalf of the union.
Mr. SCHERER. That is not my question. I ask you to direct the witness to answer the question.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to answer the question.
Mr. SHERMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds earlier stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, in light of the witness' refusal to fully identify himself, I would like to ask him to step down from the witness chair for just a moment, and I will call another witness. We will recall him later.
Mr. MOULDER. You are temporarily excused, but you will be recalled. (Witness temporarily excused.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. William Kimple.
Mr. MOULDER. Will you hold up your right hand and be sworn, please. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give before this committee will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
Mr. KIMPLE. I do. TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM WARD KIMPLE
