Mr. CHAPMAN. Thomas Chapman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have a middle initial
Mr. CHAPMAN. A. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record,
Mr. MARGOLIS. Ben Margolis, of Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Chapman?
Mr. CHAPMAN. November 25, 1913, city of New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you now reside in Los Angeles ?
Mr. CHAPMAN. I do. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4043 
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you resided in the State of California
Mr. CHAPMAN. Since 1935.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee briefly what your formal educational training has been ?
Mr. CHAPMAN. I graduated from the New York City high school system, and I had 4 years of college. I would say that my real education began during the depression, when I went around looking for a job, and that my education, at least in the question of democratic unionism, came when I affiliated with the greatest democratic union in the world, the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union (ILWU) whose members decide union policy and who are responsible to no one in the determination of union policy.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, having volunteered that speech when my question was related solely to your formal educational trainingMr. CHAPMAN. The question was of education, which I answered properly, Mr. Tavenner.
Mr. TAVENNER. You know what my question was. It was confined to your formal educational training.
Mr. CHAPMAN. And it is well known that education begins in the outside world and is not solely confined to the school system.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to answer.
Mr. MOULDER. I understand the witness has answered the question. He has completed his answer.
Mr. CHAPMAN. Yes, my answer is complete. But Mr. Tavenner keeps raising it over and over again.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive any part of your educational training at the People's Educational Center in the city of Los Angeles? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. CHAPMAN. I refuse to answer that question on the basis of my constitutional rights. I believe that a man has the right to study for himself in any way he chooses, to read what he chooses, to associate with whom he chooses to associate, and to develop himself and learn about life and about what he wishes to know. I think this right is protected by the first amendment of the Constitution. Where I go to school is strictly my own affair, and this committee has no right to examine me on this question. It is a matter that is reserved to the individual. The sovereign rights of the individual in this country are guaranteed under the 9th and 10th amendments to the Constitution of the United States, which solely reserve to the people such rights as these, and which prevent Congress from inquiring into such matters because they are not given any authority to do so. On the basis of the 9th and 10th amendments alone, I could refuse to answer this question. It is also a violation of the first amendment of the Bill of Rights. On this ground I refuse to answer the question. It is a violation, furthermore, of the fifth amendment which this committee forces me, forces me to take-as they would put it-i Tefuge in because they consistently attempt to pervert the meaning of 4044 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA this amendment, the meaning of this amendment being historically to protect the innocent and not to shield the guilty. The Supreme Court has said recently, in the decision which has already been called to the attention of this body, that anybody who attempts to pervert the fifth amendment, as this committee does, and to say that it is an admission of guilt, is making a hollow mockery of the United States Constitution and also of the Supreme Court. The committee has shown by its action that it so mocks the Constitution and the Supreme Court as well. It is for this reason that the executive board of our union acted as it did in connection with the committee, and I will not answer or cooperate with the committee because I will defend the right of unions to organize, and of members to believe as they choose, to determine their own union policy against the assaults of this committee, which is trying to do a job on our local in Los Angeles.
Mr. MOULDER. Very well. Now the witness is directed to answer the question. I might say, too, as chairman of the subconmnittee, I am probably very lenient and tolerant with many witnesses who have made such statements as you have made.
Mr. CHAPMAN. May I say, I appreciate this very much.
Mr. MOULDER. TO a reasonable degree. But let's not carry it too far. And you are directed now to either answer the question or decline to answer, as you may choose to do.
Mr. CHAPMAN. In the future I can simply refuse on these constitu- tional grounds that I have already stated. And I will be very happy to do so. May I also say that I appreciate very much the opportunity to say what I already have said. Since so many people seem to be cut off, I appreciate this opportunity. And I will try to cooperate with the committee and make my answers brief as possible.
Mr. MOULDER. Now you are directed to answer the question pro- pounded by counsel. 
Mr. CHAPMAN. I believe I have. answer on constitutional grounds? Have I not said I refused to 
Mr. MOULDER. You refuse under the provisions of the Constitution?
Mr. CHAPMAN. Yes; under all of these amendments, I refuse to answer. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you copies of the April and October 1947 announcement of courses at the People's Educational Center and ask you whether or not, as shown by those announcements, you taught during those terms at the People's Educational Center. (Documents placed on the witness table.)
Mr. CHAPMAN. There is no need for me to examine these documents since I shall refuse to answer all questions concerning them. 
Mr. SCHERR. I ask you to direct the witness to answer.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to examine the documents presented by counsel for the purpose of informing himself so that e might answer or decline to answer the questions as may be propounded by counsel. (The witness confers with his counsel.) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4045 
Mr. CHAPMAN. You have already advised me that the document refers to the People's Educational Center, and I will answer no questions concerning the People's Educational Center. So there is no need for me to examine the document.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why?
Mr. CHAPMAN. What? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Why do you refuse to answer any questions regarding that educational center?
Mr. CHAPMAN. On all the grounds previously cited.
Mr. TAVENNER. I desire to offer the two documents in evidence, ask that they be marked "Thomas A. Chapman Exhibits Nos. 1 and 2," respectively, and filed in the committee records.
Mr. MOULDER. The two documents referred to by counsel will be so marked and filed for the information of the committee. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee, please, whether or not you were the author of an article appearing in the November 15, 1944, issue of the People's World, entitled "Criticizing Critics," which I hand you. (Document placed on the witness table.)
Mr. CHAPMAN. There is no need for me to examine this document because I will not answer any questions concerning these subject matters of the Daily People's World, which has been-you have already told me about-under constitutional grounds.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that you direct the witness to examine the document.
Mr. MOULDER. The witness is directed to examine the document.
Mr. CHAPMAN. I will repeat that for the benefit of the committee, which apparently they didn't hear the first time: I will refuse to answer any questions concerning this document. So there is no need for me to examine the document. And I am refusing and basing my refusal on constitutional grounds, though I must say I can't understand why whether a person wrote an article for a paper is a subject for investigation by this committee, whether it is true or not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just be a little patient and we may be able to explain it. This article shows that you were the feature editor of the Daily People's World. Will you tell us over how long a period you were the feature editor of the Daily People's World ? (The witness confers with his counsel.)
Mr. CHAPMAN. You are making an assumption, Counselor, that I was in fact the editor of the People's World. I will not go on this kind of assumption. I am going to refuse to answer all questions of this kind because they are an invasion of my right of privacy, and on the constitutional grounds heretofore cited.
Mr. SCHERER. IS counsel's assumption incorrect ?
Mr. CHAPMAN. I am not even going to discuss the matter with you because it invades my right of privacy. I will not answer any questions concerning such matters. I base myself on my constitutional rights. I wouldn't answer, either, if you asked me if I wrote an article for the Warehouse News.
Mr. TAVENNER. You asked me the reason why I asked you the question.
Mr. SCHERER. Just a minute. Read that last answer. 4046 COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 
Mr. MOULDER. He said he would not answer if he wrote an article for the Warehouse News.
Mr. CHAPMAN. No. The Warehouse News. That is a union publication.
Mr. SCHERER. That statement certainly indicates the witness is not invoking his constitutional grounds in good faith. It is obvious.
Mr. CHAPMAN. Ask me the question. I will make my constitutional grounds clear. That happens to be a union publication. Do you intend to inquire into union publications also, Congressman ? When do you intend to stoop that low ? I can understand your trying to assault and break unions. I would like you to ask me that question. Please ask me if I ever wrote anything for the Warehouse News.
Mr. SCHERER. Let the record show that the witness is almost violent in his actions on the stand.
Mr. MOULDER. I want to warn the people in the hearing room.
Mr. SCHERER. And that he is surly and sarcastic, and that his voice is exceptionally loud, because I assure you, sir, that I am going to have this matter referred for contempt.
Mr. CHAPMAN. I am very glad, Congressman, to lower my voice. I will try to modulate it. And I do not wish toMr. SCHFRER. We have tried to treat you right. You are making one of the typical speeches, we know, for the benefit of your union here.
Mr. CHAPMAN. My union is under attack, Congressman. I must speak in its defense against you or anyone else who assaults it. And just because at this moment you choose to modulate your voice instead of using your usual maniacal tone is no reason why I must modulate mine. I am a worker. I resent an attack on my union. I am going to defend it. You try to bust it if you want, and you won't bust it.
Mr. SCIERER. I ask that the witness be escorted from the room by the deputy marshal.
Mr. MOULDER. The request of my colleague Mr. Scherer is granted.
Mr. MARGOLTs. He is willing to leave under his own power. There is no necessity for his being escorted.
Mr. SCHERER. I ask that he be escorted. Deputy Marshal, will you remove him from the hearing room. He is in absolute contempt.
Mr. MARGOLIS. He is ready to leave on his own power.
Mr. SCHERER. Out of the room.
Mr. MOULDER. I wish to make this announcement: We are privileged to have with us in the hearing room Rabbi Max J. Merritt, who is exdirector of the Los Angeles Chapter of the American Jewish League Against Communism. Shall we stand in recess for 5 minutes?
Mr. TAVENNER. May I finish this? It will only take a minute. I mean if it is all right to just finish with this witness. I desire to offer into evidence marked for identification as "Thomas A. Chapman Exhibit No. 3," a photostatic copy of a petition of the Independent Progressive Party of California, bearing the date the 15th day of February 1948 at the end of which there is an affidavit by Thomas A. Chapman, in which he states that he solicited the signatures appearing thereon. COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE LOS ANGELES, CALIF., AREA 4047 
Mr. MOULDER. The exhibit will be marked as requested by counsel, and admitted in evidence. (This exhibit is similar to Kalman Bloch exhibit No. 1, p. 3957, and will not be reproduced in the printed record. It is on file in the committee's records.)
Mr. TAVENNER. I also want to call to the committee's attention that Elizabeth Anderson Wilson, who appeared as a witness before this committee in September of 1951, identified Tom Chapman as a person known to her to be a member of the Communist Party, and that at that time he was employed as a reader in a studio. I also want to call to the committee's attention the testimony of Sol Shor, bearing date of March 12, 1953, at page 930 of the printed record. He identified Tom Chapman as a member of the Communist Party. That is all Mr. Chairman.
Mr. MdULDER. We will stand in recess for a period of five minutes. (Whereupon, a short recess was taken. Present: Representatives Moulder and Scherer.) (The committee was reconvened at the expiration of the recess. Present: Representatives Moulder and Scherer.)
Mr. MoaLDER. The committee will be in order and those persons in the corridors and those who desire to hear the proceedings will take their seats as quickly as possible. I wish to announce, or td request the United States Deputy Marshal to be diligent in observing the conduct of persons in the committee hearing room and, as requested by members of the committee, the United States Marshal is directed to remove any person from the hearing room who makes audible comment or makes any demonstration which will interrupt or disturb the proceedings being had by the committee. Would you call your next witness, please ?
Mr. SCHERER. Do I understand, Mr. Chairman, that statement and that order are made to the marshal without further direction from the committee?
Mr. MOULDER. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Sidney London. 
Mr. MoULDER. Hold up your right hand and be sworn, please. Do you solemnly swear that the testimony which you are about to give before the committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. LONDON. I do so swear. TESTIMONY OF SIDNEY LONDON, ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL, BEN MARGOLIS
