Mr. POLONSKY. Abraham Lincoln Polonsky, 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented here by counsel?
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes, I am. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record?
Mr. POPPER. Martin Popper, 160 Broadway, New York. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Polonsky, will you give the committee a brief statement of your educational background; but before doing so, will you state when and where you were born ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I was born in New York City, December 5, 1910.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what is your profession?
Mr. POLONSKY. I am a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now will you state what your educational training has been ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I went to the public schools in New York City; went to the College of the City of New York, and to Columbia Law School. (Representative Harold H. Velde entered hearing room.)
Mr. WooD. Just a moment. Let the record show that Mr. Velde of the committee is here. Proceed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where do you live at the present time ?
Mr. POLONSKY. In Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long have you lived there?
Mr. POLONSKY. Since I returned from overseas in 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you lived there prior to that time? SMr. POLONSKY. I went out in 1937 for, I think some 4 to 6 months; and once before that in the early part of 1944, think it was February, on official business for the Government, in order to get released from a Paramount contract.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe it will be a lot better if you state in your own way what your record of employment has been since you completed your education.
Mr. POLONSKY. You mean as a writer, mainly?
Mr. TAVENNER. Principally; yes.
Mr. POLONSKY. I started to work in the radio business toward the end of 1936, and I worked in radio until toward the end of 1943, and I also wrote several books in that time, and stories and serials for the magazines. After that, beginning in 1945, I began to work in motion pictures, and I have worked there since with the exception of some stories that I wrote for magazines and a novel recently published by Little, Brown & Co.
Mr. TAVENNER. When did you begin working in moving pictures?
Mr. POLONSKY. In March or April 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were some of the principal productions with which you were connected ?
Mr. POLONSKY. Well, I got a screen credit on a picture in which Marlene Dietrich appeared called Golden Earrings. I wrote the screen play, Body and Soul, and collaborated in writing the play Force of Evil, and was sole author of the screen play, I Can Get It for You Wholesale.  397 
Mr. TAVENNER. By whom are you now employed ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I am unemployed. I was employed at 2Qth Cen- tury-Fox until this business started, and then I was released.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of the production of Body and Soul. Who was the producer of that play ?
Mr. POLONrsY. I am not quite sure. It was Enterprise Pictures, I suppose, and Garfield's company. They borrowed me from Paramount Pictures to write the screen play, and I came over there to write the screen play on a production that had not come through, and I wrote a brand new story for it. Then I was released from my Paramount contract and worked for Enterprise until I went to Europe, and when I returned I went to work for 20th Century-Fox.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the star of that play ?
Mr. POLONSKY. Body and Soul?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes. 
Mr. POLONSKY. John Garfield.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the director?
Mr. POLONSKY. Robert Rossen. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become interested in any way in the firm which produced that?
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes; I did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that before or after the production of Body and Soul?
Mr. POLONSKY. It was after the success of Body and Soul. They made me what you might call a nominal vice president of the company. I never received money for that, but for the work I did as writer and director. I had no financial or stock interest in the company.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were in the company besides yourself ?
Mr. POLONSKY. Well, it is hard to say, because I didn't pay much attention to it, but Garfield, I think, was the president.
Mr. TAVENNER. What Garfield?
Mr. POLONSKY. John Garfield. Mr. Garfield was the president, and I was vice president, and I think Mr. Garfield's business agent was secretary or treasurer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who is your business agent, or was your business agent ? 
Mr. POLONSKY. You mean my business agent, or my agent for the motion pictures ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, agent for the motion pictures. 
Mr. POLONSKY. William Morris & Co.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of various guilds in Holly- wood, such as-the Radio Writers' Guild ? 
Mr. POLONSKY. I am a member of all the writing guilds-Radio Writers' Guild, Dramatists' Guild, Authors' League, Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you hold an official position in any of them? 
Mr. POLONSKY. No; I have not.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you an official of Actors' Laboratory?
Mr. POLONSKY. This is a question we will have to talk about here. I am going to refuse to answer that question, sir, and claim the protection under the fifth amendment, the right against self-incrimination, the right not to testify against myself, and insofar as the first amendment is relevant to it, I would like to use that too. 398 
Mr. TAVENNER. I understand from what you say that you were a member of the Radio Writers' Guild?
Mr. POLONSKY. That is true.
Mr. TAVENNER. Out of your interest in that particular field, did you become one of the 13 incorporators of the Hollywood Community Radio Group ? 
Mr. POLONSKY. I am going to refuse to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated, although I would like to say that if you would divide your question up, there is no relationship between the Radio Writers' Guild and the organization you mentioned.
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't mean to infer there was, but out of your interest as a radio writer, were you interested in the formation of a corporation, of which you were a director, which had for its purpose the acquisition of a radio station?
Mr. POLONSKY. I am going to have to refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you photostatic copy of articles of incorporation of the Hollywood Community Radio Group, bearing the names of the applicants for the charter, and I notice there the signatory in ink of Abraham L. Polonsky. Will you examine that and state whether or not it is your signature?
Mr. POLONSKY (after examining document and consulting with his counsel). I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Polonsky, hearings were conducted by the Federal Communications Commission with regard to the licensing of the operations of a broadcasting station to the Hollywood Community Radio Group on December 19, 1946. An examination of the record of those hearings shows that on that day you appeared as a witness and testified before the Commission, and that in the course of your testimony the following questions and answers appear, both on cross-examination and on redirect examination, which I desire to read to you. Cross-examination by Mr. Welch: Question. Would you permit someone to broadcast over your station espousing the views of communism? Answer. I would permit Communists to broadcast over our station as long as they are a legal entity. Question. Espousing the views of communism? Answer. Yes, sir. Question. That is all. Then on redirect examination by Mr. Rosenberg: Question. On cross-examination, Mr Polonsky, I believe you testified that you would permit the Communists espousing the cause of communism to broadcast over your station so long as the Communist Party was legal in the United States; is that correct? Answer. I said that. Question. Would you permit Communists espousing the cause of communism so to broadcast under any and all circumstances? Answer. I should say not. Question. What circumstances would you permit them to broadcast under? Answer. Well, in terms of the discussion that I had with you during the intermission-well, he asked me that question and I will answer it. I feel only that if it is public controversy in which the subject affects the interests of all the people who could listen to our station and they want to hear the various sides of the issue and the Communist side was one of the sides to it, then I think so long as the Communist Party is legal in the United States, they should have  INDUSTRY 399 the right to present their side of the case, but I would not permit the station to be used as a platform by the Communists or anybody else. Question. Will you state what you mean by the discussion you had with me on the subject after the recess? Answer. Yes. You asked what I meant by that statement, whether I meant that station could be used as a platform, and I said not. Question. Did you state in substance what you have just stated on the witness stand? Answer. That is correct. 
Mr. POLONSKY. Was there a question that you have addressed to me? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I have read that testimony to you, and I am now going to ask you a question based on that testimony. Did those views as appear on the record of the hearing, of the propriety of the use of the radio station by Communists, apply equally to the use of the moving-picture industry in connection with Communist activities?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds pre- viously stated, because I feel that in moving into this realm of discussion I may tend to incriminate myself or testify against myself.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you refuse to answer whether your views with regard to the use of radio stations by Communists coincide with your views regarding the use of the moving-picture industry by Communists ?
Mr. POLONSKY. May I consult my counsel, please? lAfter consulting his counsel.] I am going to stand on my previous answer, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to the fact that you were a member of the Office of Strategic Services, or employed by them?
Mr. POLONSKY.
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mr. POLONSKY.
Mr. TAVENNER. I didn't,but I was. I understood you to say you had been overseas? That is right. With the Office of Strategic Services? 
Mr. POLONSKY. I didn't mention the name. I just said I was overseas. But I was employed by them.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the nature of your employment?
Mr. POLONSKY. Well, I am reluctant to answer that question because I feel that- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Let me qualify the question. I do not ask you to state to the committee anything of a confidential character or secret character in connection with your employment in that service. 
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes. I was involved in the clandestine black radio operations in France and England.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you so employed ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I went overseas, I believe, in the middle of April 1944, and I returned to the United States toward the end of February, I believe, in 1945. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In securing a position with the Office of Strategic Services, did you sign this statement, or did you make this answer to an inquiry that is made, the inquiry being as follows: "Did you ever have or do you now have membership in or support any political party or organization which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government in the United States?" To which question there is written the word "No." Do you recall executing that statement which I now hand to you for you to examine, the form being known as Form 47 ? 
Mr. POLONSKY (after examining document and consulting with his counsel). I signed a lot of forms at that time, and that looks like one of the many I did sign. 400 
Mr. WooD. I didn't understand the witness.
Mr. POLONSKY. I said I signed a great many forms at that time, and this looks like one of the many forms I did sign. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you satisfied you did sign that particular form and you gave the answer of "No" to the question asked ?
Mr. POLONSKY. That is my signature there, and my handwriting.
Mr. TAVENNER. If that statement was made by you at that time, was it a truthful statement?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you refuse to answer .whether or not the statement that you were not a member of such an organization as described there was truthful, on the ground it might tend to incriminate you?
Mr. POLONSKY. In the light of the general context of the way things are now, and in the light of the position I am in now, I refuse to answer on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to correct at this time a statement I made a few minutes ago. I referred to the form as being Form 47. It appears on the face of it, it is OSS Form 2205. I assume that does not change your answer ?
Mr. POLONSKY. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. There have been several witnesses who have ap- peared before the committee during the course of these hearings who have described their own participation and membership in the Communist Party, and who have also made reference to your alleged membership in the Communist Party, and who have referred to meetings of the Communist Party which were held in your home. The com- mittee is inquiring into these activities, and I would like to ask you this specific question: The witness, Mr. Sterling Hayden, as appears on page 34 of the transcript of his testimony, was asked this question: Question. Do you know an individual by the name of Abe Polonsky?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. The meetings were frequently held at Abe's house. Question. Was he a member of this group?
Mr. HAYDEN. He was later. About the time I terminated he began to show up at meetings. In the early stages of the proceedings he did not sit in on these meetings as I remember it. Question. Was he known to you as a member of the Communist Party, from your association with him?
Mr. HAYDEN. Yes. Do you desire to affirm, deny, or explain in any manner the statement made by Mr. Hayden under oath?
Mr. POLONSKY. I have indicated to counsel here that I am going to' refuse to answer all such questions on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. WOOD. Do you refuse to answer this question ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer this question on the grounds pre- viously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. The witness Mrs. Meta Rosenberg testified before this committee on April 13-Mr. Sterling Hayden having testified on April 10-and at page 73 of the transcript Mrs. Rosenberg is shown to have been asked this question: Tell us who were in this second group, and in giving us the names of them, state also whether or not they were connected with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, and if you can recall, in what capacity.  INDUSTRY 401 By the "second group," previous to that question I had asked her what she meant by second group by this question: "Of the Communist Party?" to which she replied, "Yes." Then, to the, question I read, Mrs. Rosenberg made this answer: Well, the first one that comes to my mind, the most natural one, of course, is Robert Rossen, who was the'second chairman of the Mobilization. There was Abe Polonsky. I don't know that he had any special job in the Mobilization. He did a good deal of work. He is a very brilliant writer. Do you desire to deny, affirm, or explain that testimony in any manner ?
Mr. POLONSKY. What is the date of that, sir? 
Mr. TAVENNER. The date is April 13, the date of her testimony.
Mr. POLONSXY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU were associated with and connected with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, were you not?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. The witness Richard Collins testified before this committee on April 12, 1951, and on page 69 of the transcript it appears that this question was asked: QUESTION. Were you acquainted with a-person by the name of Abe Polonsky? 
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. QUESTION. Was he known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. Do you desire to offer any explanation by way of affirmation or denial of that statement?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated?
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted in California wth a person by the name of Sidney Benson, or Sid Benson ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Naomi Willett, W-i-l-l-e-t-t, often referred to as Betty Willett? 
Mr. POLONSKY (after consulting his counsel). To the best of my knowledge I have no recollection of that name or any name like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall of such person ever coming to your home?
Mr. POLONSKY. I have no recollection whatsoever of any such person, even the existence of any such person.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall a meeting in your home attended by Waldo Salt, Samuel MooreMr. WooD. Spell it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Waldo Salt, S-a-l-t; Samuel Moore; John Stapp, S-t-a-p-p; Charles Glenn; and John Howard Lawson. And in asking you this question, it has no relationship to the individual about whom I asked you a moment ago.
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated with the Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions as a member of its steering committee in 1950? 402 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated. Those are all organizations that have been characterized by this committee
Mr. TAVENNER. As Communist-front organizations. Were you affiliated with any such organizations ?
Mr. POLONKSr. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee what the purposes of any of these organizations were, such as the one I just mentioned, the Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions?
Mr. POLONSKY (after consulting his counsel). I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you a member of the Communist Party at this time?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Polonsky, who recommended you for your posi- tion with OSS ?
Mr. POLONSKY. Mr. Walter, I am very reluctant to answer that question, and I would not like to answer that question unless this committee actually forces me to do so, because although I have had no contact with any of the men in that organization since the period of the war and immediately afterward-I think once-they may still be involved in the intelligence services of the United States and their names are not a matter of public knowledge at this time.
Mr. WALTER. You weren't just plucked out of thin air. OSS some- how or other got in contact with you and you were given the employment.
Mr. POLONSKY. I was recruited by someone into OSS.
Mr. WALTER. Where were you when you were recruited?
Mr. POLONSKY. In New York. 
Mr. WALTER. Who was it recruited you ?
Mr. POLONSKY. This is the name of one of these gentlemen whom I mentioned, and, of course, if the committee insists upon my answering that question I will, but-Mr. WALTER. How long had you known that individual?
Mr. POLONSKY. I had not known him at all before that time.
Mr. WALTER. A perfect stranger came to you and asked you if you would be available for service in the OSS; is that right?
Mr. POLONSKY. He was a stranger to me at that time.
Mr. WALTER. Do you know how he came to know that you could perform some service for the OSS ?
Mr. POLONSKY. May I discuss this for a moment with my counsel, please.
Mr. WALTER. Yes. (Witness consults with his counsel.)
Mr. POLONSKY. I am reluctant to answer any questions around that subject, sir, unless the committee is willing to take responsibility for it, because at the time I left OSS, although I did not swear not to tell or anything like that, there was a moral understanding that we would not discuss these questions, but if the committee forces me to I will give the names of the people, but I have to caution the com-  403 mittee that they may be involved in intelligence activities at this time. (Representative Bernard W. Kearney entered hearing room.) 
Mr. WALTER. Have you any relatives in Russia ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I wouldn't know. My father was born in Russia, so was my mother, or in Poland, I am not sure, and there may be relatives there.
Mr. WALTER. I believe your.father-in-law and mother-in-law were also born in Russia ?
Mr. POLONSKY. That is true, or Poland.
Mr. WALTER. You don't know of any relatives you may have in Russia?
Mr. POLONSKY. No, sir.
Mr. WALTER. You haven't been in contact with any of your relatives in Russia ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I have never been in contact with them.
Mr. WALTER. That is all.
Mr. WoOD. Mr. Frazier.
Mr. FRAZIER. No questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Polonsky, is your wife's name Sylvia Morrow?
Mr. POLONSKY. Sylvia Marrow, M-a-r-r-o-w.
Mr. VELDE. Did you formerly live in New York City?
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. You and your wife?
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Did you move to Los Angeles about 1944
Mr. POLONSKY. No, sir. Well, I am not sure about that. I took up residence in Los Angeles myself, that is, when I returned from the war, and my wife came at some other period, I think while I was overseas. There was a period of 2 weeks in the early .part of 1944 when I went to Paramount to get a cover story for my departure abroad, and to explain why I could not continue under my motionpicture contract, and I also got my shots.
Mr. VELDE. Is your wife a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. VELDE. Do you have.any knowledge that there is a Communist movement in Hollywood?
Mr. POLONSKY. That seems to go to the general sense of the questions which I said that I must not answer in order not to incriminate myself, sir, and I refuse to answer that question.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Polonsky, in refusing to answer these questions, I presume you know that you leave us-or me, at least-with the impression that you have been and still are a member of the Communist Party. Further than that, in refusing to answer whether or not you signed a loyalty oath when you went into OSS, you leave me with the impression that you are a very dangerous citizen. That is all.
Mr. POLONSKY. Do you wish me to comment upon that, sir? When I cite the fifth amendment in order not to incriminate myself, I am not affirming or denying anything. I am doing that because of the context of things today.
Mr. WOOD. I am unwilling to let that statement go. unchallenged. When a man says, in answer to a question of whether or not he is a member of an organization that has been cited by an arm of this Gov- 404 INDUSTRY ernment as subversive, that he refuses to answer on grounds of selfincrimination, he means one of two things to any reasonable person, either that if he tells the truth he is a member, or that if he denied membership he perjures himself. I am not willing to let the statement go unchallenged that your answer might be "No." It would either, in your opinion, incriminate you to answer it truthfully, or your statement that you hide behind the fifth amendment is a false statement. So let's not have any misunderstanding about that.
Mr. POLONSKY. But that is not the meaning of the fifth amendment as I understand it and as the courts have stated it. It is one of the most basic and fundamental rights under the Constitution.
Mr. WOOD. Absolutely, and no member of this committee seeks to place any impediment in the way of anyone using it, but when he uses it and then says he leaves the inference he is not a member of the organization interrogated about, it doesn't make sense.
Mr. POLONSKY. I am not trying to leave that implication. The Founding Fathers wrote the fifth amendment for this type of interrogation. Am I right about that ?
Mr. WALT . No, no, no; you are not right at all. I suggest you read the debates. That was not the purpose of the fifth amendment at all.
Mr. POLONSKY. As I remember, the special courts of inquiry at that time, the inquisitorial courts, the Founding Fathers, had the idea that such a thing might occur, that people might be brought up under subpena or some other way and forced to speak about things that might incriminate them about their political ideas, their conscience, their morality, their feelings, and it was felt at that time-and I feel it very deeply myself-that what the Constitution means, what the fifth and first amendments mean, is that this is a kind of country where there is thorough freedom for those things. And it doesn't seem to me the committee should attempt to characterize my answers, where I use the fifth amendment, as Mr. Velde does when he says he thinks I am a dangerous man.
Mr. WALTER. You would with one breath use the fifth amendment, and with the second breath deprive us of our right to reach a conclusion.
Mr. POLONSKY. I am not trying to deprive you of any right.
Mr. WALTER. You do deprive us of our right to reach the conclusion stated by Mr. Velde, and I think he speaks for all of us.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you think the Founding Fathers had in mind the ultimate formation of the Committee on Un-American Activities ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I don't know, sir, but this committee has, in its actions-and I am not characterizing this committeeMr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, I see no reason to ask further questions of this witness. He is following a pattern that apparently has been rehearsed by witness after witness.
Mr. POLONSKY. It is not rehearsed. When you ask questions and cut me off in the middle of my answer-I don't know. I am willing to talk about anything that-Mr. KEARNEY. You are willing to talk; there is no question about that.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Have you ever been associated with an organization known as the Silver Shirts?  INDUSTRY 405 
Mr. POLONSKY. I have not.
Mr. JACKSON. Were you ever associated with an organization called the Communist Party ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. JACKSON. You make a very fine distinction ?
Mr. POLONSKY. That is a very broad distinction. 
Mr. JACKSON. There is no distinction at all. You are perfectly willing to crawl under the umbrella of the fifth amendment so far as the Communist Party is concerned but, so long as your toes are not trod upon in the realm of the Communist Party, you have no hesitation in answering questions about the Silver Shirts or fascism or nazism.
Mr. POLONSKY. You draw the implicationMr. JACKSON. I am not going to enter into a dialectical discussion with you. 
Mr. POLONSKY. Do you know what the Silver Shirts is ?
Mr. JACKSON. I do.
Mr. POLONSKY. It is a dirty Fascist organization.
Mr. JACKSON. That is right; it is as dirty on the Fascist side as the Communist Party is on the other side. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Assuming a hypothetical situation, if the United States should be invaded by the Soviet Union, would you bear arms to defend the United States ? 
Mr. POLONSKY. I have thought very long and deep on that ques- tion, because it has been asked many times before this committee. I do not think by committing ourselves to a war we can get peace. I do not think that is the way to get peace.
Mr. PorrER. If Spain should invade the United States under Franco, would you bear arms to defend the United States? 
Mr. POLONSKY. I think that goes to the same thing.
Mr. POTTER. You realize many boys today are shouldering arms and dying for their country? 
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes; and I am horrified by it. I am horrified by the great debate that is going on in this country. I know what war is, and it is a frightful thing that boys are dying when it doesn't make sense.
Mr. KEARNEY. Don't you think the members of this committee know what war is? 
Mr. PoLONSKY. Yes; I believe you do know. worse than a war. There is nothing SMr. POTTER. Did you support our war effort during World War II after the breaking of the Hitler-Stalin Pact? 
Mr. POLONSKY. I supported our war effort from the very moment Hitler started the war until we licked them. 
Mr. POTTER. You didn't answer the question whether, if Spain under Franco should invade the United States, you then would sup- port our war effort. Please answer that. 
Mr. POLONSKY. I didn't refuse to answer that. I said it went to the same kind of reply I made before. I realize this committee is interested in having an answer to it, and they are interested in having an answer to it in terms of a certain concept of loyalty that exists in the committee's mind. I say that, to my way of thinking, the asking of 406 INDUSTRY a question like that at this time is part of a mistaken notion that by committing ourselves to the inevitability of war we will be better prepared to have peace. That doesn't make sense to me.
Mr. WOOD. Is that the only answer you desire to make to the question asked'?
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes; it is a question of opinion, and that is my answer.
Mr. WooD. And the only answer you will give ?
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes, sir. I can develop it further if you wish.
Mr. WooD. Proceed, Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Do you believe as an American citizen you carry with your citizenship a responsibility to defend your country in case of an attack by an aggressor?
Mr. POLONSKY. Isn't that the same question? It just makes it more abstract.
Mr. POrTER. Will you bear arms for your country in case of an attack by an aggressor?
Mr. POLONSKY. I have, in the sense that when I was asked to volunteer they said, "Will you volunteer for a duty that may be dangerous ?" I didn't want to, but I did. I didn't know what it was going to be. It turned out not to be dangerous at all in a real sense.
Mr. POTTER. You were very fortunate. 
Mr. POLONSKY. I know it, sir.
Mr. POTTER. There have been a lot of men who have been called and who have taken and assumed a responsibility that they have as citizens to bear arms and to risk their necks. They have done it in wars and wars, and they are doing it in Korea today.
Mr. POLONSKY. I didn't serve in a cellar club.
Mr. PorTER. There are many men today being called. If you received orders today to serve in Korea, what would your answer be?
Mr. POLONSKY. I would naturally go. I wouldn't disobey the laws of the United States. But you are asking me a question of opinion or war and peace, and I have answered that.
Mr. POTTER. We all want peace. We have wanted peace for centuries, but we have had wars. In case the war should come, I am asking you, despite the fact you have refused to answer questions concerning a certain ideology, whether you today would support the cause of our country in case we were attacked ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I said to you that I would obey the laws of the United States, and I have and will do so in the future. But when you come to the question of war and peace today, that is another question, because that is a question in a sense of fighting for what you believe is correct. I believe if we prepare for war constantly we will surely have it, and the only peace we will have is the peace apes and tigers have.
Mr. PoTTER. Peace by domination?
Mr. POLONSKY. There will be no domination after the next war, sir. There will be ruin.
Mr. Woon. Mr. Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Do you know if any of the Hollywood writers who were convicted and served time in jail are now writing in Hollywood under assumed names or through other parties?
Mr. POLONSKY. Are they all out of jail ? 
Mr. KEARNEY. Those who are out of jail.  407 
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question on the grounds previously stated. 
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Polonsky, when you executed the form that was pre- sented to you, OSS Form 2205, containing the statement that you did not and never had belonged to an organization that advocated the overthrow of this Government, on the day you executed this form did you hold membership then in the Communist Party ?
Mr. POLONSKY. I refuse to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. WooD. Did you know that, under the laws of the United States, any offense you may have committed at that time, saving that involving capital punishment, has been barred by the statute of limitations?
Mr. POLONSKY. I don't know about that.
Mr. WOOD. If your counsel was to advise you that any offense you may have committed, if you did commit any, at the time you signed this form, OSS Form 2205, has been barred by the statute of limitations long since, so that you could not now be prosecuted at all, would you answer the question?
Mr. POLONSKY (after consulting his counsel). I am going to stand on my previous answer to that, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. WOOD. Very well. Any further questions, gentlemen? 
Mr. WALTER. In other words, as I understand it, you refuse to answer that question because of the protection you feel you have coming from the fifth amendment to the Constitution?
Mr. POLONSKY. What question, sir?
Mr. WALTER. The last question.
Mr. POLONSKY. Will you repeat the last question ?
Mr. WALTER. The question was whether you would refuse to answer if you knew the statute of limitations had run.
Mr. POLONSKY. I don't understand. sulting with his counsel.] Excuse me. [After con- Which specific question is it you are asking me?
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Wood asked you the question whether or not you would decline to answer if you were advised you could not be prose- cuted for perjury because the statute of limitations had run.
Mr. POLONSKY. The question was would I decline to answer if cer- tain things went on. Could you put a specific question ? 
Mr. WALTER. You have declined to answer questions this morning on grounds of the fifth amendment. 
Mr. POLONSKY. Certain questions; yes.
Mr. WALTERS. Didn't you know the fifth amendment relates only to criminal proceedings ? This is not a criminal proceeding. 
Mr. POLONSKY (after consulting with his counsel). I am informed that the fifth amendment applies to legislative proceedings, and, that there have been decisions on this in the last 15 months; and, as I understand, the fifth amendment was mainly for such proceedings.
Mr. WALTER. No. It relates to criminal proceedings.
Mr. POLONSKY. It has been expanded to protect the political rights of Americans. It has to be as wide as possible. And I think this committee is trying to make everybody feel or believe the way they sincerely feel or believe, and is not granting the right to other per- sons to feel or believe the waythey feel or believe. 408 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to put in evidence OSS Form No. 2205, and suggest it be designated as "Polonsky Exhibit No. 1," and ask leave ofthe committee to withdraw the original and substitute a photostatic copy thereof.
Mr. WooD. It will be admitted with that qualification. (The document above referred to is marked "Polonsky Exhibit No. 1" and filed with the committee.) 1
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Is there any reason why this witness should not be excused V
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. POLONSKY. I have a statement that I prepared for this meeting, for this inquiry.
Mr. WOOD. Would you like to file it with the committee?
Mr. POLONSKY. I would like to read it if I may.
Mr. WOOD. File it with the committee. 
Mr. POLONSKY. Yes, sir. May I say something-just one word? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I call Mr. Edward Dmytryk. 
Mr. WOOD. Will you raise your right hand, please. You solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Mr. DaMYRYK. I do. TESTIMONY OF EDWARD DMYTRYK
