Mr. DMrrTYK. Edward Dmytryk. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And the spelling is D-m-y-t-r-y-k ?
Mr. D=TRYK. That is right. -Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born, Mr. Dmytryk? 
Mr. DMYRYKR. bia, September 4,
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mr. DMYrrRx.
Mr. TAVENNER. I was born in Canada, Grand Forks, British Colum1908. Are you a naturalized American citizen? I am. When were you naturalized? I was naturalized in 1939. What is your profession ? I am a screen director. Where do you now live? I live in Hollywood at 8338 De Longpre.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you raise your voice, please?
Mr. DMYTRYK.
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mr. DMYTRYK.
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mr. DMYTRYK.
Mr. D xaYTR . Surely. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I wish you would give the committee a brief state- ment of your educational training.
Mr. DMrYRYK. Well, I went through grammar school, went through Hollywood High School, and I attended a year the California Institute of Technology before I went back to pictures, where I had worked previously.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you had worked prior to that time in pic- tures? 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. I left home when I was 14, just when I en- tered high school, and I worked after school and during vacations at Paramount in order to work my way through school. Retained in files of the committee.  409 
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, you earned your way through college by working in the studios ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you work?
Mr. DMYTRYK. At Paramount Studios. I worked in the laboratory as a messenger boy first, and then as a projectionist.
Mr. TAVENNER. What salary did you receive?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I started at $6 a week.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you outline to the committee what your pro- fessional career has been since that time ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. After I quit college and went back to Holly- wood I went to work as a projectionist, which I had been doing for sometime before, after school. About that time sound came in, in the late twenties, and there was great expansion, and I became assistant cutter then cutter for Paramount until 1939, at which time I got a break directing pictures. I directed B pictures, three or four at Paramount, at Columbia, one at Universal, and one at RKO. At RKO I made a picture, Hitler's Children, which was a quickie, but it made many millions of dollars, and from then on I directed A pictures from 1943 until 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were some oi the principal productions di- rected by you?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Behind the Rising Sun; Tender Comrade; Till the End of Time; Back to Bataan; Murder, My Sweet; Cornered; So Well Remembered, which was made in England; and the last picture, Crossfire.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time you directed this picture Crossfire, how did your weekly salary compare with the time you started ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I was making $2,500 a week, 52 weeks a year.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Dmytryk, you were subpenaed as a witness before this committee in 1947?
Mr. DMYTRYx. I was. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And you are one of those commonly referred to as the "Hollywood Ten"?
Mr. DMYTRYK.
Mr. TAVENNER.
Mr. DmyTRYK.
Mr. TAVENNER. I was. I notice you say you were, rather than are. I don't think I will be considered so much longer. Your testimony today will throw considerable light on that subject?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I imagine so, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you were one of the group who were prose- cuted for contempt of Congress, and that you received a sentence, and that you have served that sentence ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I have, yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at the time you were subpenaed before this committee in 1947?
Mr. DMYTRYK. No; I was not. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. DxMTRYK. Yes; I had been a member. I had been a member from sometime around the spring or early summer 1944 until about the fall of 1945. Most of this was during the period when the Communist Party as such was dissolved and the Communist Political Association had taken its place. 410 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. So you had been a member of the party for a comparatively short period of time ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. While you were a member of the so-called "Hollywood Ten," did you have opportunity to further observe the workings of the Communist Party?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I think I can truthfully say that I had much more opportunity to observe the workings of the Communist Party while I was a member of the "Hollywood Ten" than I did while I was a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. This committee is endeavoring very strenuously to investigate Communist Party activities and the extent of Communist Party infiltration into the entertainment field, with special reference to the motion picture industry at the present time. Are you willing to cooperate with the committee in giving it the benefit of what knowledge you have from your own experiences, both while a member of the Communist Party and later?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I certainly am.
Mr. TAVENNER. And that is true notwithstanding you refused to testify before this committee in 1947 ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes; it is true. The situation has somewhat changed.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by that ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, very simply,.this. In 1947-and I think this question is apt to get a little complicated. May I take some time in answering it, please?
Mr. TAVENNER. Just treat it as you like.
Mr. DMYTRYK. There is a great deal of difference between 1947 and 1951 as far as the Communist Party is concerned, or at least as far as my awareness of what is going on is concerned. In 1947 the cold war had not yet gone beyond the freezing point. I wanted to believe that Russia was very sincere in wanting peace, and I didn't feel the Communist Party in this country was any particular menace as far as I knew, and I felt the committee befone which I appeared was invading a field they could not properly invade, that is, freedom of speech and freedom of thought'; and I also sincerely believed the procedures used by the committee were not completely in keeping with an honest investigation. On those grounds I refused to testify at the time. Since that time a number of very important developments have taken place. In the first place, I had never heard before 1947 anybody say they would refuse to fight for this country in a war against Soviet Russia. I think I was in England when I first saw an article about an Australian party member who said he would not fight against Soviet Russia. Then I saw articles about American party members taking the same position; I believe Paul Robeson was one. Since then other party members in this country have stated they would not fight for their country. I think in a democracy each person takes upon himself the duty to defend his country in time of war. Along with other people, I signed the Stockholm Peace Petition. I believe in peace, as everybody does. I hoped they were sincere. However, the Korean War made me realize that they were not. I think any intelligent person must realize that the North Koreans would not have attacked the South Koreans unless they had the backing of very strong forces. I can't prove it, but I believe those forces  INDUSTRY 411 are Communist China and Communist Russia. This, too, disturbed me tremendously, and made me realize there is a Communist menace and that the Communist Party in this country is a part of that menace. The third thing was the spy trials, the development of the Hiss, Coplon, and Gneenglass cases, and the Fuchs case in England. To me there is a significant thing about the spy trials. The thing that impressed me was that these people did not get any money, or not much. There are spies who work for their country, and we have respect for them. There are other spies who receive money for their work, and there may be a certain admiration for them, because they risk their necks. These people are doing it for love of the party. This is treason. I think the party that has used them is treasonable also. I don't say all members of the Communist Party are guilty of treason, but I think a party that encourages them to act in this capacity is treasonable. For this reason I am willing to talk today.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to have you state to this committee, from your own experience in the Communist Party and your study of its activities and what knowledge you have on the subject, what the real object of the Communist Party is in its efforts to organize and infiltrate the moving-picture industry in Hollywood.
Mr. D rYTRYK. Well, I had no access to inner-party circles, so I can't tell you officially, but my opinion is they had probably three chief purposes. The first one was to get money. Hollywood is a very wealthy community, and it is a great source of capital. The next one was to get prestige. And the third and most important one was, through the infiltration and eventual taking over of Hollywood guilds and unions, to control the content of pictures. The only way they could control the content of pictures was to control studios, and the only way they could do that was to completely take over the guilds and the unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us go back to the first of those purposes that you mentioned, the matter of money. What information do you have regarding the effort of the Communist Party to obtain sizable sums of money out of its membership in Hollywood ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I have no exact information, but I heard a great deal of talk about it at the time, and I know that at least some of the niembers were making sizable salaries. This was not true in all cases, but there was in, some cases a tithing system under which members gave a percentage of their salaries. Sometimes it amounted to quite a bit of money. There was also the opportunity to hold a great many affairsparties, dinners, meetings of various sorts-not so much directly for the Communist Party as for Communist-front organizations, for which they were always able 'to get very sizable donations, and I think over a period of years, particularly when the love feast was on between Russia and America'during the war and for some years afterwards, a great deal of money was taken from Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make any sizable contribution to the Communist Party ? 81595-51-pt. 2-8 412 INDUSTRY 
Mr. DMYTRYK. No. I wasn't making much at that time. I also had a business manager. A Hollywood business manager is a very unique institution. In order to try to save your money, he gives you a very, very small allowance. I had an allowance of $25 a week. I sometimes gave $5 or $10, but I couldn't give a tithing because I would have had to go to my business agent. Business agents are capitalists, and I couldn't ask for money for the Communist Party. Then, too, I was never indoctrinated enough to know if I would become a serious member of the Communist Party. As it turned out, I didn't
Mr. TAVENNER. You referred to another purpose of the Communist Party in its work in Hollywood as being the purpose of obtaining prestige. What did you mean by that?
Mr. DxYTRYK. Well, it did that by getting important names. This, too, is not so much for the party itself. I don't know that the party itself ever recruited any large number of prestige people. However, through what are now called Communist-front organizations, they were able to approach a large percentage, I would say majority, of the name people in Hollywood and get their names on resolutions or as members of boards of the Communist fronts. This is a complicated thing. When you say Communist front, you get the impression it is run by Communists. This isn't always true. I have seen Communist fronts where. there are as few as one or two Communists. Also, there are two kinds of fronts. One kind is organized by the Communist Party itself, or by certain Communists; and another is an organization that starts out as an ordinary liberal organization and is infiltrated by Communists. The Communists are tireless workers, as I think this committee realizes. Also as I think this committee realizes, one tireless worker in an organization can usually take over that organization in time. A Communist doesn't want to be president. He wants to be secretary. As secretary, he very soon takes control and will run the organization as a Communist organization. Another important point is that the Communist-front organizations, as such, were never engaged, at least overtly, in any activities that seemed undemocratic or unpatriotic, and that is why they were able to attract so many people. Actually, the work they did during the war was really good work. That is the way they were able to trap so many people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Not so rapid, please. 
Mr. DxYTRYK. I will write a note to myself. I would say that for every Communist in a Communist-front organization in Hollywood, there were 100 non-Communists, and very few of them had any idea they were dominated by a' Communist group. This was not because they were fools, but the Communists are clever enough to cover up that fact, and the work they do overtly appeals to many public-minded citizens.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of a third and most important aim and object of the Communist Party as being the purpose of eventually obtaining control of the guilds and unions, as I understood you to say ?
Mr. DxMTTYK. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What guilds were they that you referred to  413 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Let me preface that first by saying in the first two points I mentioned, I think the Communists had considerable success in Hollywood. In this last point, they had only limited success. Hollywood is split up into probably two sections, first the talent guilds: Screen Writers' Guild, unaffiliated; Screen Directors' Guild, unaffiliated; and Screen Actors' Guild, which is affiliated with the American Federation of Labor, but is largely autonomous. Then there are the craft unions, mostly IATSE. I think that is International Association of Theatrical and Stage Employees. I know that the Communists were successful for a time in taking over or largely controlling-they didn't take over but controlled for a long time-the Screen Writers' Guild. They got a number of men on the board to pass their resolutions and that sort of thing. They were not successful at all in the Screen Directors' Guild. There were only a very few Communists in the Screen Directors' Guild at any time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you in the Screen Directors' Guild
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes, from 1939 on.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many were there in the Screen Directors' Guild
Mr. DMTmRYK. I only knew of seven. I recall a special meeting at which they were present.
Mr. WOOD. I don't believe he understood your question.
Mr. TAVENNER. No. I meant the total membership of the Screen Directors' Guild at that time.
Mr. DMYTRYK. The total membership, full directors, was 225 or 230. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And of that number there were seven known to you to be members of the Communist Party?
Mr. DMYTRYK. As far as I know there were seven, and as far as I know that was just about all. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the names of the seven ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. Frank Tuttle.
Mr. TAVENNER. He was a director?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. T-u-t-t-l-e I
Mr. DMYTRYK. T-u-t-t-l-e. Herbert Biberman, B-i-b-e-r-m-a-n, I believe. Jack Berry. I don't know whether he spells it B-e-r-r-y or B-a-r-r-y.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you identify him further ?
Mr. DrYTRYK. I heard the chairman this morning give the address. He is the Berry who lives on Kings Road. house. That is why I know. The meeting was at his Bernard Vorhaus.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell that?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I believe it is V-o-r-h-a-u-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you have named four. 
Mr. DYrrRYK. Then Jules Dassin, D-a-s-s-i-n. And myself. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any definite knowledge of any of the others having left the Communist Party ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. No; I don't. I think it is quite possible that some of them have, because that has happened to a large extent in Hollywood in the last few years. 414 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to say the meeting you described was held at the home of Jack Berry?
Mr. D rYTRYK. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the purpose of the meeting?
Mr. DMYTRYK. As far as I can remember, I think it had to do with trying to elect one of us to the board of directors of the Directors' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why was the Communist Party interested at that particular time in placing one of its members on the board of directors of the guild
Mr. Dx rRYK. Well, that was part of a very long-term plan. They wanted to get as many people as they could on the board of directors of the guilds so that they could eventually control the policy of those guilds, particularly in relation to an eventual coalition for the backing of the various unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. In other words, this is one instance in which the Communist Party was endeavoring to obtain control of the guilds, which you have described as one of the principal objects of the Communist Party ?
Mr. DMYTRKn . Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you recall any other details concerning that meeting?
Mr. DMYTRYK. No; I can't. It is. very difficult to recall particular meetings at this time, because most of us were engaged in many meetings, most of them having nothing to do with Communist work, Communist-front work, and so on, and it is difficult at this late date to separate them as to any one meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are definite as to the fact of the seven individuals you have named, including yourself ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. They were members of the Communist Party?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Continuing with your discussion of what. you re- ferred to as the third and most important aim or object of the Communist Party, what other efforts do you know of that the Communist Party resorted to, to control either pictures, or the guilds, or the executives of the industry ?
Mr. DMrrRYK. The chief effort was in the craft unions. I want to say that in my opinion the Communist Party never had any control over any major executive in any major studio, nor did they at any time have any effective control over the contents of pictures. It is true that somebody may have slipped in a line or something that made them happy, but that is not the kind of thing that would be effective in the least degree, and certainly they never had any control over any maior executive that I know of. But in the craft unions they were successful in organizing a group called the Conference of Studio Unions that did have a great deal to do with the policies. They eventually got so strong that they risked a strike against the IATSE. However, they lost the strike after a very, very long and serious battle, and that attempt came to nothing.
Mr. TAVENNER. During that period, did the Communist Party at- tempt to influence the guilds in the matter of the strike ? 415 
Mr. DMYTRYK. I know the three guilds got together and appointed committees to investigate the strike. In almost every case they came out in favor of the Conference of Studio Unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were speaking of the craft unions. What do you know about the existence of communism in the craft unions?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I know very little except that within the Conference of Studio Unions, in particular, they were quite well organized. I also believe that they were actually very few. I don't believe there were over 50 or so in that group. I believe there are people who can tell you more about this than I can. I didn't have much contact with the craft unions.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have sufficient contact to be able to tell us what program the Communist Party expected to follow in regard to the craft unions?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I used to hear a good deal of talk about this from other Communists, and the general purpose seemed to be this: That the existing unions, if possible, would be defeated by the CSU or broken up; that the guilds would be kept independent until such time as they thought they could succeed in bringing CIO to Hollywood and affiliating these guilds and independent units with CIO, with the eventual hope that all the craft unions and guilds would be a part of CIO. They seemed to feel that could work more freely within CIO than within AFL.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was before the time CIO expelled various organizations because of their Communist infiltration?
Mr. DMYTRYK. It was, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state what you know about the activity of the Communist Party within the Screen Writers' Guild, if you know ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I don't know a great deal about that except many of my friends were in the Screen Writers' Guild. The Communsts elected enough members to the board directors to control that guild for a large number of years, actually until 1947, I believe. As a result of that, they largely led the fight in Hollywood on various Communist-front activities. They usually led the fight to get the other talent guilds- what we call prestige guilds-they tried to get them to take the side of the CSU against the IATSE. In general, the Screen Writers' Guild led in that kind of work.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of your own personal knowledge the names of individuals within that group who were members of the Communist Party at that time ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. I know several. John Howard Lawson was one of them. Lester Cole was a leader in that group. Those are the only two whom I can positively identify as Communists whom I knew as leaders in that group. Gordon Kahn, by the way, was also rather important in the group.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell his last name?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I believe K-a-h-n. He was editor of the guild publication for a long period of time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you familiar with the activities in the Screen Actors' Guild?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I know practically nothing about any activities within the Screen Actors' Guild. I know that of the three talent 416 guilds, the Screen Actors' Guild was the most active in leading the Fight against communism in Hollywood, and the earliest organization, I elieve, to do so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Just how did the Communist Party plan to function, or did it function, in its effort to control or to obtain control or influence in these various guilds ?
Mr. DmTRYKx. Well, besides the extent which I have already mentioned, they didn't go beyond that. They didn't got to the point, in my opinion, of ever controlling any kind of content in pictures, which is actually what they were aiming for in the long run. The Communists for years have realized the importance of any public mediums of propaganda and education. Lenin said way back that the cinema would probably be the most .important medium of propaganda and education, and they were trying to take over that medium. They could not walk in and start controlling the content from the beginning. The only way they could control content was through control of the unions and guilds, so that they could get a stranglehold of the executives. It is very difficult to obtain control, because you have to go through the line, and you would have to have a chain of Communists from beginning to end, five or more, and they never did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of any instance in which an effort was made to control the content of a picture? 
Mr. DmYTRYK. Well, in a vague way, yes. That is, the attempt to control was vague. I know the instance very well because it happened to me. This is the thing that actually got me out of the party. In 1945 Adrian Scott and I made a picture called Cornered. The picture was the story of a Canadian pilot immediately after the war who had been married to a French girl who had been in the underground and been killed, and with very little to go on this pilot started looking for the person who had killed her. Many Germans were reported to have escaped to Argentina, and he followed him there, trying to pin him down. In that picture we had an opportunity to say many things about fascism, which we did. While the first script was being written by John Wexley I found the script had long speeches, propaganda-they were all anti-Nazi and anti-Fascist, but went to extremes in following the party line on the nose. I objected, not because of this,.but because the picture was undramatic, too many speeches, and I suggested to Adrian that we get another writer, which we did. We got John Paxton, a very fine writer, who had worked for us previously. And since I have mentioned him, he is not a Communist, by the way. He rewrote the script, we shot it, and made a fairly good melodrama out of it. After they were making prints to go out to the theaters, so that I knew no changes could be made in it, Adrian Scott received a note from Wexley saying he wanted to have a conference with us. Wexley had had an arbitration on credits and had lost.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you mean by credits?
Mr. DMYTRYK. He wanted a larger share of credit, and there are means of arbitration on writers' disputes about that. They gave Wexley adaptation credit.  417 The meeting was at my house. I was surprised to see the meeting was of Communists, and the whole meeting was along Communist lines. Adrian Scott and I were attacked by Wexley and by two people he brought with him at the time, Richard Collins and Paul Trivers, T-r-i-v-e-r-s.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was Paul Trivers' occupation?
Mr. DMYTRYK. He was a writer. - I think he is now with the Bob Roberts-John Garfield Co. as a writer. The whole attack on us was along this line: That by removing Wexley's line we were making a pro-Nazi picture instead of an anti-Nazi picture. To say the least, we were startled.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Adrian Scott a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes; he was. His experience with the party was about the same as mine.
Mr. POTrER. Where did this meeting take place?
Mr. DMYTRYK. At my apartment.
Mr. POTTER. When?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Late summer of 1945 or fall of 1945.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was John Wexley also a member of the Communist Party? 
Mr. DxYTRYx. I would say he was a member of the Communist Party because this was unquestionably a Communist Party affair. This was the only time I ever saw him at anything that I considered communistic. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Other than John Wexley, how did you know the other persons you mentioned to be members of the Communist Party Take first Adrian Scott.
Mr. DMYTRYK. I had attended meetings with Scott. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Another you mentioned was John Howard Lawson.
Mr. DYTRYK. No. I mentioned him earlier. I mentioned Collins and Trivers.
Mr. TAVENNER. How did you know Trivers to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Only by reputation and by the conduct of this com- mittee hearing. This was a little committee. There was no question then and there is no question now but that this was a Communist meeting, as I will develop later on. Of course we refused to admit any of the charges made by Wexley and the other two. Nevertheless, they. asked for a further meeting. At the further meeting they brought John Howard Lawson, who was the "high lama," of the Communist Party at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Why do you say that?
Mr. DMYTRYK. He settled all questions. If there was a switch in the party line, he explained it. If there were any decisions to be made, they went to John Howard Lawson. If there was any conflict within the Communist Party, he was the one who settled it. We had a third meeting at which Adrian Scott brought in Albert Maltz, who was a more liberal Communist, to defend us. These meetings ended in a stalemate. There were several byproducts of these meetings. I think Albert Maltz had been concerned with the lack of freedom of thought in the Communist Party for some time, and this was the trigger for the 418 article he wrote for the New Masses on freedom of thought which was so widely discussed.
Mr. TAVENNER. It is your view that this incident you have described had a 'very strong effect upon Albert Maltz ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I know unquestionably it did, because I talked to him about it, and he was very much concerned with this effort to control the thought of members. So he wrote the article which he later had to repudiate or get out of the party, and he chose to repudiate it. Adrian Scott was also concerned, and he thought we should have a meeting with John Howard Lawson and discuss the broad subject with him. We had luncheon with John Howard Lawson at the Gotham Cafe in Hollywood. It was a very unsatisfactory meeting. John Howard Lawson was very uncommunicative; he would not explain his actions, would give no reason for them. He said we obviously showed we could not accept party discipline, and if we felt that way it would probably be better that we get out of the party. We made no official decision at that time. Adrian Scott was loath to make any decision. I never attended any meeting after that. So although that was not an official getting out of the party-very few write letters of resignation or anything of that kind-I never attended any other meeting of the Communist Party as such.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you anything further to say regarding the point three that you mentioned, as t.o the most important of the aims and purposes of the Communist Party in Hollywood ?
Mr. DMITRYK. I don't believe there is anything more I can say ex- cept to say that in Hollywood they have failed. I feel sure that the Communist Party is now a completely ineffective element in Hollywood life.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have been rather struck with some of the testimony here as to the station in life and the measure of success that various people apparently had when they became members of the Communist Party. What appeal was there in the Communist Party which aided them in recruiting members? How was it that individuals-for instance, such as Jarrico, as to whom there has been testimony that he was a member of the Communist Party-how was it they would become members?
Mr. DMrYRYK. The answer to that question is rather involved, again. However, I would like to talk about it a little bit, because I think there are many misapprehensions about the type of people who become Communists. This is particularly true of Hollywood. Writers are, of course, traditionally concerned with people. These are the bones of their work. To understand people properly they have to understand the society in which they live and the economic conditions under which they live. So any writer worthy of the name studies these problems. Probably he becomes a writer because he is a humanitarian. There is at least a streak of altruism and idealism in him. So they usually come in contact with Communists more than the average person. Most of these people do not come from poor backgrounds of poverty and deprivation. Most of them come from good backgrounds. They become troubled about poverty, especially where there is such a discrepancy, where a man making $2,500 a week is working next to a man making $25 a week. They consider this unfair. It is a characteristic purely of Hollywood.  419 You hear in Hollywood more than anywhere else the word "break" used. If you ask a successful person in Hollywood how he got there, he will never say, "I got here by hard work and personality." He will say, "I got the breaks." Of course, hard work and personality count a great deal, but "breaks" count too. When I was a projectionist the head of the cutting department came to me and an older man who was also a projectionist and gave both of us an opportunity to become a cutter. The older man wouldn't take it. He wanted security, and preferred to remain as a projectionist. I took it. He is still a projectionist, and I am a high-salaried director. I took the chance. We think, "There but for the grace of God go I" when we see somebody not so successful. As a result, a person in Hollywood is really interested in bringing up the general level of people around him. He knows he can't do it individually. He knows it wouldn't do any good to give five bucks here or there. He looks around for some organization in which he can work that does these things. He finds Marxism because it is waiting for him. Of course, it is not that simple. He doesn't just open his eyes and see Marxism and say, "That is for me." The Communist Party has laid very clever fly traps for him. These organizations are all around him. And most of the work they do is very good. Their overt purpose is certainly good. They may eventually be used for other purposes. These organizations are not for the long-term work of the Communist Party. They are used to attract many people. They not only attract those who become Communists, but they attract many who never become Communists but who give the Communists the advantage of their time, their work, and their money. The average man who joins the party, I think Koestler said 7 out of every 10 who joined the party got out. The phrase has been used that the same ideals that took them in the party took them out again. The average person who goes in finds there is no freedom of thought; that the discipline is a very harsh one. If it had not been for my experience in connection with Cornered, I might have gone on for some time before I would have dropped out of the party. The party has a very good explanation for everything that troubles a man. If he says he doesn't have freedom, the great explainer, whoever he is in that locality, will point out that he has freedom to tell the truth; that the Communist Party has discovered the ultimate truth, and within that limit he can speak. Anything outside of the party line is a lie. Of course, anything capitalistic is basically a lie because it comes from a system they consider dishonest to begin with. So when a man accepts this thing he believes he is following the truth. When a man leaves, like Albert Maltz, he is brought back in line or thrown out. Many go out. Something else takes place. You are isolated. You are surrounded by people who believe as you do. The people talk a lot, but they all agree with each other. You go to a party or to a friend's house, and you simply make statements and agree with each other, and of course damn the capitalists. You become isolated so much that after a while 420 you don't know what the truth is, and it takes some shocking event to get you out of it. The Communists very effectively use these organizations, and they are primarily for the purpose of getting well-intentioned people in the organizations. You see, many Communist Party members, I would say the majority of members are not used in subversive activities. They are concerned with the organization and running of the Communist fronts and things of that kind, and many of them can go to their deaths believing they were working in a decent organization, if they don't look on the outside to see what is happening in Russia. It is the "end" policy of the Communist Party which explains everything. Whatever is done, they say, "This had to be done to achieve a good end." The end overtly is Utopia. For instance, many people questioned the Communist purges. The answer was, "These people are revolutionists. We must hold them back." The same thing is true of the Hitler-Stalin Pact and the Finnish War. The Hitler-Stalin Pact was to achieve a good end. The Finnish War, they explained if they didn't have all that span between Finland and Leningrad, Leningrad would have been overrun. My wife had an interesting experience while I was in jail. My wife is not political at all, but she wanted me to get home very badly and was doing what she could, together .with other wives of the "ten," to get me home. She was called and asked to go with one of the wives of the "ten" to Sacramento, where all three parties-Democratic, Republican, and Progressive-were holding conventions. My wife noticed that the wife, or the woman, she was with, and others she had made contact with up there, were doing things that she didn't think were quite proper. For instance, they were getting information. In one particular instance they asked a small clerk, getting a small salary, to give them a secret list. My wife said, "You are asking him to risk his livelihood. He might lose his job and his reputation." The answer was, "It doesn't matter if one person gets hurt if thousands will eventually benefit." That answer is a very corrupt thing. You cannot get a perfect end by using a corrupt means, because the corrupt means corrupts you so that you don't know what a perfect end is.
Mr. WALTER. How do the Communists explain the 18,000,000 slave laborers in Russia ?
Mr. DMYTRK. In this country they deny it. They say the capitalist press does not print the truth, that they print only lies. I have had arguments on that. I have said I didn't believe all they printed were lies. They will admit some people are liquidated, but they say it is for the good of humanity. You can make people believe this very. easily.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have described the general method used by the Communist Party in making its appeal to persons in Hollywood. I wish you would tell us now the circumstances of your own joining of the Communist Party, when it was and how it occurred.
Mr. DxYTRYK. I 'oined, as I said before, in 1944.
Mr. TAVENNER. Excuse me a moment. Prior to that time were you a member of various Communist-front organizations?  .421 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. That is the way I got into the party. Probably as early as 1942 I had begun to be interested in what later became, although I didn't know it at the time, Communist fronts. I knew it before I joined the party, however. There was a school started that eventually became the People's Educational Center. Before that it was a small school, and there was one class for readers, and they wanted me to come and give them a talk on cutting, the editing of pictures, which I did. Most crafts in Hollywood are learned pragmatically. There are no texts telling you how to write a play, or how to cut. Everything I had learned about cutting I had learned from experience. In preparing a lecture I had to try to arrive at certain theories of cutting, and in doing this I found I was finding out things about my profession-which I still did on my own pictures-which I had never learned before. I was very excited about that. I was asked to repeat the lecture, which I did, and improved on it. About this time, in 1943, the People's Educational Center was organized, and one of the classes was a class in screen direction. It was actually an orientation course. We had 12 lectures by directorshow a screen play is directed, technicolor, cutting, and so forth. I became one of the lecturers. Some of the lecturers were Communists, but most of them were not, and most of the students were not Communists, and I personally never heard of any Communist Party line followed; certainly not in our class. I lectured there also on related subjects having to do with screen direction, and I liked it very much. Then I learned the Communists were running this organization. It was during the war, and I didn't say, "How horrible." I said, "The Communists are doing something I think is good." The Writers' Congress was held about 1943. This was a meeting of writers from all over the country and from foreign countries. We had qiite a few refugees in this country at that time. A message from President Roosevelt was read at the congress. Gordon Sproul was honorary chairman. I think Daryl Zanuck was in it. I later found that some of the people connected with the Congress were Communists. .This was a good thing. I thought one of the things we needed was a meeting of cultural minds. I attended several of the seminars and found them very good. They were all concerned with the craft and with various related artistic endeavors. When I found out this, too, had been organized by Communists, I thought it showed the Communist Party was engaged in good things. The Writers' Mobilization was formed about this time. The Writers' Mobilization, Emmett Lavery testified in 1947, got a medal for work they did for the war effort. They were writing speeches for patriotic organizations, writing scripts for USO, and that sort of thing. This, too, I found out had been very largely organized by a few Communists. I was active in that a while. I was interested in that, too. I did not know too much about it because I was not a writer, but I did chair a seminar on the Nature of the Enemy. Also during this time I had made acquaintances and shown interest in these activities, so I was approached by people-I can't say by whom-to join the Communist Party. I was curious. I had tried to read Marx, but never got beyond the first chapter. So I agreed 422 to go to a recruiting meeting, and eventually I went to a Communist Party meeting. Immediately after that the Communist Party was dissolved as such and became the Communist Political Association. At this time the line was that communism can work with capitalism because capitalism is now enlightened; there is no need for revolution, and no need for conflict.
Mr. TAVENNER. That doctrine was very short-lived?
Mr. DMYTRYK. About a year, I think. Browder got kicked out for it. SAlso, during this time there was a good deal of disorganization in Hollywood. I attended only about six or seven regular group meetings and perhaps three special group meetings in all the time I was in the party.
Mr. POTTER. Who asked you to attend the first recruiting meeting?
Mr. DMYTRYK. The man who spoke at this meeting was Alvah Bessie, later one of the "Hollywood Ten."
Mr. TAVENNER. Alvah Bessie ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. A-l-v-a-h B-e-s-s-i-e.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who were some of the others in that group with you?
Mr. DrYTRYX. At that recruiting meeting, which was held at Frank Tuttle's house, although he was not there, the only one I knew was Alvah Bessie, because he spoke. That was not a regular Communist meeting. Later I went with a friend of mine-I won't mention his name because he has since died-I went to a meeting in San Fernando Valley at which I signed a Communist Party card,
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that a cell ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. We didn't call them cells. This was a neighborhood group.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give the names of people with you in that group ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. One was Lester Cole. Another was a man named Sackin, S-a-c-k-i-n. I had known him in the picture business. I think his first name was Lou or Moe, L-o-u or M-o-e. I think there are two of them. I cannot positively identify him.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean there are two separate people? 
Mr.. DMYTRYK. Yes. The others I didn't know. There is a reason for that. When you first come to a Communist Party meeting you are not introduced by your last name, nor are the others introduced .to you by their last names, so unless you happen to know them, you don't know who they are for a long time. I went to only a couple of these meetings. Later I moved to Beverly Hills, and went to a couple of meetings there, and then moved to another group, so I never got to know any of these people.
Mr. TAVENNER. Describe each of these groups to which you were assigned.
Mr. D YTRYK. The second group I was assigned to met in Hollywood. In this group I saw Herbert Biberman; Arnold Manoff, M-a-n-o-f-f; Mickey Uris, U-r-i-s; and Leonardo Bercovici.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is the spelling of that last name?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I think it. is B-e-r-c-o-v-i-c-i. It is lucky I am Slavic or I couldn't spell those names.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were there others in that group that you can recall?  INDUSTRY 423 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Offhand they are the only ones I can recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you were transferred to another group ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I was transferred to a special group. This was toward the end of the Communist Political Association. I don't know exactly why this special group was organized. I was told later-I believe I heard it at the original hearings-they were called the Davis group.
Mr. TAVENNER. You say you heard it was called the Davis group?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. They started naming the groups after famous dead Communists. They wouldn't use live ones because they didn't know how they would wind up. That group met in San Fernando Valley. They were people either considered supersecret or superprestige. I attended two meetings. I have no idea what the ultimate purpose of the group was, but I know it was a secret thing. I attended two meetings of this group. One meeting was at Sidney Buchman's house, although Sidney Buchman was not present at the meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give us the circumstances under which you met at his house ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I can't say exactly, except Adrian Scott had been called and told to bring me along and come to a certain person's house. We went there and found no one there, and a servant told us to go to Sidney Buchman's house, and we did. Sidney Buchman was not there. In this group were John Howard Lawson; Adrian Scott and myself; a writer named Francis-this is the masculine Francis-Faragoh, F-a-r-a-g-o-h, and his wife Elizabeth Faragoh; and a couple I bad never met before; the man's name, I believe, is George Corey, a writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. C-o-r-e-y?
Mr. DMYrRYK. Yes; and his wife; I don't know her first name, Mrs. Corey, who was an advertising executive with a downtown store in Los Angeles. She had nothing to do with the motion-picture business.
Mr. WOOD. The committee will recess until 3 o'clock this afternoon. (Thereupon, at 12: 30 p. m., a recess was taken until 3 p. m. of the same day.) AFTERNOON SESSION (The committee reconvened at 3 p. m., pursuant to adjournment.)
Mr. WOOD. Let the record show the following committee members are present: Walter, Frazier, Wood, Velde, Kearney, Jackson, and Potter. A quorum is present. You may proceed, Mr. Counsel. TESTIMONY OF EDWARD DMYTRYK-Resumed
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. There were no other members in that group, * at least who ever attended.
Mr. TAVENNER. The list you gave comprised all who were members of that particular group ? 424 
Mr. DMYTRYx. I happen to know them all, and that was the group; yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, during the course of the period of time when you were a member of these various groups did you at any time attend a fraction meeting of the Communist Party ?
Mr. D'YTRYK. Yes. I don't know whether that is the proper term, because I honestly don't know what term they use, but I attended at least three special meetings, that is, meetings composed of perhaps different people where particular subjects were taken up. One I have already taken up, the directors group. Now, there was another group at Paul Trivers' house. I can't remember who was present there. I haven't even the faintest recollection of what it was all about, and the only one I can identify at that particular meeting is Paul Trivers. Then there was another group, which met for the purpose, I think, of some sort of affair .that had to do with the fight against antiNegro prejudice. That was composed of small committees, as it were. from several cells, several groups, rather neighborhood groups throughout the town. Most of them I didn't know. I knew just a few from Hollywood. The meeting was held at Ben Margolis' house, and Mr. Margolis was present, and Henry Blankfort was present. B-l-a-n-k-f-o-r-t I believe is the way that is spelled. And a man named George Pepper-P-e-p-p-e-r.. Now, also at one or another of these groups-it may have been at this one and may not-there were a couple of men. Sam Moore - from Radio was present, and Maurice Clark, about whom I know nothing except he was concerned with the Peoples Educational Center.
Mr. TAVENNER. And what was his name ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Maurice Clark.
Mr. TAVENNER Clark-C-l-a-r-k?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I believe so. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And the first name M-a-u-r-i-c-e ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I believe so; yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. This first meeting that you described was at the home of Ben Margolis ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. D=YTRYK. Well, he was at this time. This was definitely a Communist Party meeting.
Mr. WALTER. What is Mr. Margolis' occupation ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. He is an attorney. 
Mr. WALTER. IS he the man who has appeared here on several occasions with witnesses ?
Mr. DrYTRYK. I believe so. He appeared with us back in 1947.
Mr. WALTER. Perhaps that accounts for the reluctance on the part of some of the witnesses to testify.
Mr. DMYTRYK. It is possible.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now that that question has been asked, let me refer you to a statement you made in the earlier part of the testimony. I understood you to say that you had learned a good deal about communism through your associations with the group known as the Hollywood Ten. Didn't you make a statement to that effect?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes; I did. I said that.  INDUSTRY 425 
Mr. TAVENNER. What did you have reference to? 
Mr. DMrRYK. Well, simply this: That after the hearings here in 1947 when we went back to Hollywood we organized. We had-it couldn't be called an organization, but a group who shared lawyers. called the Nineteen. Of these, 10 appeared before the committee and were cited for contempt, and so we organized the Hollywood Ten in Hollywood for the sharing of expenses, because we were all pretty broke by that time. We had to pay our attorneys. We conducted certain public-relations campaigns, not very successfully, but we didthat took a good deal of money. We had to hold affairs to collect money from private people and at functions, dinners, and that sort of thing. And we held meetings quite frequently in order to discuss the various problems that came up. Right after the hearings in 1947 a number of speeches were made at various places. We were hot copy then, and, as a matter of fact, I think I made a couple of speeches myself. However, not being a very good speaker, I didn't continue speaking. Now, I left the country shortly after that. I couldn't work in Hollywood. We were all fired, those of us who were under contract by the studios, 5 out of the 10. I went to England to make a couple of pictures there. I made two pictures while I was there. I was there all together for a period of about 18 months, roughly. In other words, I went there early in 1948, and.I came back in 1949, at the time when it was assumed that our case would get up in the Supreme Court, and there would be some decision made, and we would either go to jail or not go to jail. I had to be back in the country. However, quite a bit of time inter- vened before the Supreme. Court actually handed down its decision so I really became more active.then. I had been away from it in England for awhile. My friends in England were comparatively conservative people. Some were Socialists. I don't know of any Communists in the group. One thing happened in England, however, that might be of interest. That is, Kravchenko, who had written a book- 
Mr. TAVENNER. Victor Kravchenko?
Mr. DMyTRrx. Yes. Had written a book exposing Russian communism, I believe. I never read the book. I am not sure. Anyway, a Communist newspaper-I don't know the name of it-in Paris printed the story about it, said that it was composed of lies. He sued the paper for libel. While I was in England a subpena was sent over to England from France for me to appear at the trial. I was called and asked to accept a subpena. I didn't then. I tried to find out what they wanted me for, and I found out they wanted me to come and testify.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who wanted you?
Mr. DMYTRYK. The newspaper side. In other words, the Commu- nist side in this case wanted me to come over and testify in the light of my experiences in the United States that there was a great deal of repression and persecution in the United-States. This didn't seem to me to have any bearing on whether or not Kravchenko had been libeled, and, besides, I think no man, even if he feels a grievance, should wash his dirty linen in public in a foreign country. Anyway, I was asked three different times to accept the subpena, and I refused, and they finally stopped calling me. 426 Now, when I came back to this country, as I say, we had a great many meetings then of the Hollywood Ten. We used to meet almost regularly at least every week. There were special committees. And during this time I, too, having been away for so long particularly, I attended all the meetings. I got into discussions. I got into arguments. I noticed that a change had taken place in the time while I was gone, and that the group was, without question, following the party line all the way down the line. I know the basis of my arguments was primarily that I thought that since we were conducting a fight on civil liberties that we ought to include as many people in our fight as we could, liberals, middleof-the-roaders, progressives, everybody, and that the only way we could do this was make an honest fight on an honest issue. However, the group usually voted to support every cause they could. That is, they put stuff out in defense of the New York 11, the Communists in New York, the Harry Bridges case, every case of this sort that came up. As I say, it was a typical Communist front at this time, and a great deal of this-we used to have discussions in our groups. Sometimes others would agree with me on my point of view. Sometimes they would initiate this kind of point, but I noticed that when it really got down, when the argument got hot, that somebody would call on John Howard Lawson, and then eventually on Ben Margolis, and the dialectical reasoning would come, and in effect, the party line dictate would come. I am convinced now-although I can't prove it-I am convinced at least a small group of these people probably used to meet before the meetings and lay out the agenda. I know this is a common practice in the other meetings I have taken part in. It probably happened at our Hollywood Ten meetings, too. In the long run it would wind up always, of course, in favor of the broad Communist Party line of action.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the early period-I might say about the time you were subpenaed to appear before this committee, was there any indication to you that the Communist Party was endeavorin in any way to influence the course of action that you as a group should take when you appeared here before this committee?
Mr. DMYTRYK. You mean the first time?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I certainly had no idea of it at the time. In looking back, of course, I can reach conclusions based on my later experiences about that, which I couldn't have had at the time. I think in looking back on it and remembering how the 19 were organ- ized, I would say the answer to that would probably be "Yes."
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, describe that to the committee.
Mr. DxYTRYK. Well, it went something like this. When we first got the subpenas, Adrian Scott and I accepted subpenas from the marshal at RKO studios. We had been in touch with nobody else, nor did we get in touch with anybody else at that time. We decided we wanted to get a lawyer. So I think that Adrian Scott at that time on a story, Behind the Silken Curtain, had had some contact with Bartley Crum, whom we knew as a liberal Republican from San Francisco, a man who had been very active in Willkie's campaign. So we decided to contact Bartley Crum and ask him to serve as our counsel.  427 We went to San Francisco and talked to him. He agreed. We told him our experience, that we had been members of the party. We had both gotten out. We asked him to serve as our counsel. Now, we came back to Hollywood, and we were asked to attend a very loose meeting of a group of the people who had gotten subpenas, other people who had gotten subpenas and who were not friendly to the committee. This meeting was held at Edward G. Robinson's house. He was not there. As a matter of fact, he wasn't even in town at the time. The only reason it was held there-I want to make this very clear- is that Senator Pepper was visiting in Hollywood at the time, and whether he was a house guest with the Robinsons-I know he was quite friendly. They thought it would be wise if we could get together with Senator Pepper and just find out from him what the situation was in Washington, what the feeling was, which we did. He spoke, extemporaneously of course, very informally, completely harmlessly. He simply tried to give us a picture of people in Washington, what was going on in Washington, in a very broad sort of way. There was nothing there you could pick on in any way at all. At the end of that meeting, however, we were approached by people like Herbert Biberman, Adrian Scott, and asked to attend a further meeting, at which we would discuss procedure for our mutual benefit. We had another meeting. We had several after that, and found out that these other people had obtained other attorneys, Ben Margolis, Charley Katz, and Bob Kenny. Now, different ones had gone to different attorneys. Not all had gone to these three. So we finally decided that since the expenses would be heavy and since there were quite a few members of that group who hadn't worked for a long time and had no money and that we would, in effect, have to carry them, support them, that we should all get together and pool our attorneys, pool our resources, as it were, primarily at first for financial reasons. As I say, looking back at it now, I would assume that the thing was probably fairly carefully planned by a certain,number, but we went into it with our eyes wide open, not realizing exactly what was going on at the time. There is no excuse that can be made for that. We came back to Washington and worked as a unit, not in discussing what our testimony would or wouldn't be, so much as, as I say, on financial questions, on broad political questions, and that sort of thing. We used to hold meetings. We were at the Shoreham Hotel part of the time, at least some of them. We had a large suite there, used to hold meetings regularly every day and discuss the various problems that came up of our mutual interest.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did any persons appear before your meeting to discuss--other 'than your counsel-to discuss matters in which the group as a whole were interested ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. We had various visitors, yes; at different times, two of whom I can remember. One was Lee Pressman, who delivered a little informal speech. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the subject of his speech ? 81595-51-pt. 2--9 428 INDUSTRY 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Simply we were in the forefront of a battle for freedom, and we were on the barricades, and-you know, he wished us luck and success, that we stick to our guns and fight. The other person was Harry Bridges. I don't think he made any speech, but he talked just to-several of these people were his friends.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you gain the impression that your group was being encouraged by Lee Pressman and Harry Bridges in the stand that it was taking?
Mr. DyYTRYK. There was no question about that. ,Mr. TAVENNER. Well, the result of your concerted agreement and action was you would refuse to testify when appearing before the committee; is that correct ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. It was generally agreed. We were fighting it, as I say-at least this was the only thing we ever talked about; what was in people's minds I can't testify-but we were fighting it purely on the standpoint of civil liberties and the first amendment. The principle was that since we believed the procedures of the committee at that time were not proper, the only way to test it was to take them into court or have them take us into court, which is literally what happened, on a constitutional issue. This is a practice, you know, that is frequently resorted to, as you know, and of course the only way we could do that was to stand on certain constitutional grounds. We were sure, because we knew from previous experiences of other groups, that we would be cited for contempt, and we hoped and sincerely believed at the time that on the question of the first amendment we could get at least a Supreme Court decision in our favor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, was there an agreement by all to resort to that general procedure of refusing to testify, or was there difference of opinion, which only after some time was resolved ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I don't think there was any real difference of opin- ion. We were very careful not to discuss this in the group. We felt there was some danger that this might constitute conspiracy, and most of the decisions were made-I mean the decisions on how to act before the committee-were made by individual consultation with the attorneys. Now, the attorneys gave the same advice to everybody. There was disagreement at first to some extent among the attorneys. That didn't always run smoothly. In general I would say that Bob Kenny and Bartley Crum were on the more conservative side, but they were outvoted, and I frankly don't know how strong they were in their private conversations. I am sure Bartley Crum disapproved of the tactics pretty much, but he went along with. them. There were other elements that led us to believe that the tactics might be successful. In brief, for awhile the motion picture industry as such- that is, their spokesmen-fought the committee, too. We were led to believe they would support us. Actually they didn't. So that we had many reasons to think that we were following the right course at the time.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you spoke of the industry encouraging you in the matter, what do you mean?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I mean this There had been several hear- ings into the industry by this committee at that time, and before that, and I think by a senatorial committee. I don't remember exactly which one. I do remember, however, Wendell Willkie defended the  429 committee-I mean Hollywood-at that time. That is, he was the counsel for the committee-for Hollywood, rather. And there was fear in Hollywood pretty generally among most of the people that the committee was really out to try, for perhaps publicity reasons, for I don't know what, to try to intimidate Hollywood, to try to make capital out of the thing. So many of the executives in Hollywood were not in favor, either, of the committee and were anxious-some of them were anxious to get subpenas and testify before the committee to defend Hollywood. And it was our general understanding at first-although I cannot say they specifically ever approved of the way we chose to fight the committee-that the fact that we were not being friendly witnesses but were in effect fighting the committee was a good thing for Hollywood. As I say, I can't say they approved of our tactics. I rather imagine that they didn't-of our specific tactics.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned the fact that a meeting was held at the home of Edward G. Robinson. Do you have any knowledge of Communist Party membership or activity by Edward G. Robinson?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I have not. To the best of my knowledge, he was never a Communist. I can only say this because I used to hear, of course, talk about various personalities from Communist Party members whom I knew, and I don't think anybody ever considered him a Communist. It is true that he gave some money to Communist-front organizations, as they were later known, but many people did this without knowing what they were doing. I don't think, however, that he ever gave any money to the Hollywood Ten. I remember there was some resentment of this, and for that reason I am pretty sure. The general feeling among- our group toward Robinson was one of rather mild resentment.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have a list here of about 24 individuals whom you have named as being known to you to be members of the Communist Party, and whose names you have given in the course of your testimony. I want to ask you about one of those to make certain what your testimony was. You mentioned the name of Alvah Bessie.
Mr. DMYrnyx. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. And that a meeting was held in his home 
Mr. DMYTRYK. NO.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that incorrect?
Mr. DMYTRYK. That is incorrect. I mentioned a meeting was held a kind of recruiting meeting was held at Frank Tuttle's home at which time Alvah Bessie spoke about the party. He had fought in the International Brigade in Spain and was a bit of a heroic figure at that time, and he was used in this way. In other words, what he said had weight with people who had been in favor of the Republican forces in Spain. And he spoke at that party to recruit me and anybody else who was there who was recruitable.
Mr. TAVENNER. Recruit you into what?
Mr. DMYTRYK. In the Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you know Richard Collins to be a member of the Communist Party? 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Only through his participation in that hearing- arbitration, let's say-on Cornered. I believe now from certain things that I know that Collins at that time, although he was still a member of the party, was in the process of gradually disassociating himself 430 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY from the group. However, he was present at, this particular thing, and this is my only knowledge of Collins as a Communist. You see, it is one thing to believe or know casually that a number of people are Communists, but it is another thing to be able to say definitely they are party members unless I have seen them at a meeting of some kind. I couldn't testify to that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you sit in a Communist Party meeting at any time with Richard Collins? 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Only in this particular affair. I might comment- I would like to comment here on this particular thing. A person can be in the Communist Party for a long time, much longer than I was, and still not know definitely, positively, that many people are Communists, because these groups are kept fairly separate. And unless a man moves around a great deal and gets in different neighborhood groups he doesn't know the members of another group. It is possible for him to work alongside another Communist, to know by his attitude and by the remarks he makes and how he talks that he is a Communist, and yet not ever know positively. There is no secret handshake or password, and I have never heard anybody come up to me and say, "I am a Communist." It just doesn't happen. And you can suspect 50 people or 100 people, but you cannot be sure unless you have worked with them in a meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, for instance, Richard Collins, to give an example of what you are speaking of, testified that he had been a member of the Communist Party in Hollywood for around 9 years; that he attended meetings about twice a week-an average of twice a week during all of that period. And yet you never sat in a meeting with him.
Mr. DMYTRYK. Never sat in a meeting with him outside of the incident I mentioned.
Mr. TAVENNER. Sterling Hayden was one who testified that he had attended a number of meetings. Did you ever sit in a meeting with him?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I was very surprised when I heard he was a Com- munist-when he admitted being a member-of the Communist Party. I had no idea he was even close.
Mr. TAVENNER. Larry Parks has testified he was a member of the Comununist Party and attended meetings. meeting at which he was present ? Did you ever attend a 
Mr. DMYTRYK. No. As a matter of fact, at the time of the original hearings I personally was convinced Larry Parks was one of thoseand there were several in the 19-who was not a Communist. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mrs. Meta Rosenberg testified as to the attendance at a number of meetings. Did you ever attend a meeting with her?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I never did.
Mr. TAVENNER. The 24 persons you have named are persons known to you to be members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were a member, I believe, of the Council of the Hollywood Arts, Sciences, and Professions.
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes. Actually at two different periods, one an early.period-I can't remember exactly when, way back in the middle 1940's, I believe-I was on the board. I actually attended, I believe, only one meeting at that time, although I may have taken part in  INDUSTRY .431 activities of theirs. I really can't remember that. Later when I came back from Europe, actually as a member of the ten I again was placed on the board. Again I attended only one meeting. They actually always elected a great many people on the board, knowing only a few could attend as a. rule. I had other things to do, and I only attended one. The reason for my being on the board was about that time-that is, around, I should say, the middle of 1949, at the latest-the Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions took the case of the Hollywood ten as their leading cause; that this was the thing they were really going to fight for. I want to explain a little bit about the Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions. It is unquestionably what could be called a Commu- nist front. However, without question, also, the majority of people who belong to it are not Communists. This is true in Hollywood, and I think this is largely true throughout the rest of the country. Nevertheless, I think at one time I know that the secretary of it, a man I mentioned, George Pepper-he was secretary of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions, and in general I think it can be said to have been run by Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was it affiliated with the Progressive Citizens of America?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I believe so. 
Mr. TAVENNER. When the Progressive Citizens of America dis- solved into the Wallace Progressive Party movement in 1948, do you know what effect that had upon the Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions? What happened to it?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I would say that the Council of Arts, Sciences, and Professions was one of the Progressive Party's chief supporters, because I know they ran affairs to collect money for the Progressive Party for the Wallace movement. That at that time was their chief job.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you have described to us in great detail the experience you have had in connection with the picture Cornered when you were told at the conclusion of that incident by Howard Lawson that if you could not accept the discipline of the Communist Party, probably the best thing for you and Scott to do was to get out.
Mr. DMTRYKT. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you to say that that incident had a lot to do with your determining that you would get out of the party.
Mr. DMrrRYK. Yes; it did.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, explain that more in detail.
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, it is simply this: That I had always believed in the right of every individual to think as he wished, and particularly for every artist to be perfectly free in what he had to say. I had never gone along even during the period I was a member of the Communist Political Association and Party with any kind of thought control, and before that actually I had never myself experienced any such instances. The fact that they tried to tell us what to .do, that others got together and tried to tell us what to do, shocked me very deeply. I knew myself that I could never submit to that kind of discipline.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, in that connection there has come to our atten- tion an incident of a similar circumstance that came over the radio 432 today. One of our staff members heard it, and a few moments ago we were able to locate it in the newspaper. I am going to read it to you: [Washington Daily News, April 25, 1951, p. 7.] SOVIET OPERA FAILS AT COLLECTIVE FARMING The Russian Government has fired the director of its state-owned Bolshoi Theater for staging an opera which failed to show the best qualities of Soviet farmers. A brief radio Moscow announcement yesterday said A. V. Solodovnikov had been replaced as theater director by A. I. Anisimov for unsatisfactory direction. But Pravda provided some details a week ago. It said Herman Zhukovsky's opera, From All Our Hearts, failed to reflect the riches and joyfulness of life on a collective farm. Authors, composers, and stage designers were jolted by the Pravda blast, because the opera had received a Stalin prize only last month. Furthermore, Stalin had attended the opera shortly after. Pravda even assailed the All-Union Committee of Fine Arts, final authority on new artistic works, for permitting the production of an unhealthy, inartistic opera. That was based upon the failure of this play to properly describe the best qualities of collective farming. Now, is that the type of discipline to which you refer in a general way as being objectionable and as being accepted in the Communist Party ? 
Mr. DMYTRYK. It certainly is, and I think without question if the Communist Party ever got even control of the motion-picture medium the same kind of censorship would have taken place. As a matter of fact, I have discussed this kind of problem with Communists before. For instance, the famous case of the Communist musicians who were reprimanded by the party-and I remember asking, "How can any- body, any commissar or committee say what is people's music? It doesn't make sense to me, because a note doesn't propagandize as far as I am concerned." But they said, "No. If you really study it very carefully there is a great deal to this. There is a certain kind of music people understand. If they understand it, it is people's music, and it should be done. On the other hand, if the music isn't understood by the people, then it is counterrevolutionary and as such should be forbidden." I have had these arguments specifically with Communists in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. And was that argument equally valid with regard to the Duclos letter, which has been mentioned here in the testimony a number of times?
Mr. DMYTRYK. The Duclos letter was a little bit different. I'd say this was what happened. Browder recently, and his associates, decided they could cooperate with the capitalistic government, that revolution or war was not necessary, that the capitalist form itself would eventually evolve into a Socialist form of government. Now, after the war was over and there was no longer need on the part of Russia to cooperate with the United States, Duclos, who was a French Communist, a powerful worker in the French underground, went to Russia. When he came back to Paris he wrote his famous letter, and I think it was a letter to a newspaper, in which he criticized severely the American party line as it had been followed under the Communist Political Association. Now, this is a technique that is often employed. In other words, the Russians, in order to avoid any charge that they are directing outside Communist parties, will let an Italian Communist make-this is supposed to be purely a criticism. The fact that it isn't I think is clearly COMMUNISM' IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 433 demonstrated by the fact that Duclos' letter came out, and there was atremendous crisis in the American Communist group. Browder and his supporters were thrown out of the party, and the strong Communist Party line people were put into control. This even had some repercussions in Hollywood, because John Howard Lawson, who had been a Browder supporter and who had been a strong preacher of the cooperative policy, immediately, of course, was in trouble, too, and he had to do a lot of very fast tightrope walking in order to save himself. A lot of the Communists in Hollywood were a little bit happy about this, because even they had resented the Lawson touch, the fact that he was the final answer to everything. And so they hoped he would get thrown out, too, but he made his peace with the new group and was back in his original position in not too much time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, do any other instances occur to you which would indicate a strong party discipline within the Communist Party?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Just offhand I can't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of course, the reversal of Albert Maltz in his letter was one which you have mentioned.
Mr. DMYTRYK. Yes; I have mentioned that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, do you recall any instance in which a leader in the party may have argued in behalf of one thing at one time and then very shortly afterward been compelled to change entirely ?
Mr. DxYTRYK. This went 'on all the time. There was a wellknown incident that everybody got a good laugh out of in Hollywood, even the Commuists, I must say. They were the only ones who actually knew about it. It was where Herbert Biberman had made a very powerful speech, impassioned speech, in favor of-I don't know if it was a personality or party line, one day. The official party line changed the following afternoon. The following day he made an equally impassioned speech in direct contrast to the speech he had . made 2 days before. .Mr. TAVENNER. When do you consider your withdrew from the Communist Party ? Mr. DxYTRYK. Well, I, consider that I withdrew from the Communist Party in the fall of 1945. However, as I say, I was active in what are now called Communist Party fronts. I want to make this clear. I was still teaching at the People's Education Center. until 1947. I was on the board of the arts, sciences, and professions council. I was a member of the "Hollywood Ten.": So actually .I didn't break, I want to explain that,,too, because I wasin a peculiar. position. As a man who had taken a gamble, who had made his choice in my appearance before'the 1947 committee, I felt even though I had serious doubts about my position even during the hearings and shortly after that certainly, I felt that having taken this choice that I should follow it out to its logical conclusion. That is until such a time as the Supreme Court either decided we were right or we were wrong and went to jail. I. felt if I suddenly started crying,"Uncle" I was doing it simply to avoid the consequences of the decision, which was going to jail," although I had already before I went to jailmnade up.my mind as soon as my jail sentence was over I would' issue an affidavit and disclose whether I had or had not been a member of'the party. ' Actually,I issued such an affidavit, a partial disclosure; not adiomplete disclosure, because a complete disclosure would have taken far too much time 434 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY and space to explain while I was in prison. I did this, because the Korean War-the way the Korean War was going so bothered me that I felt I had better make my position clear on that.
Mr. TAVENNER. To whom did you give this affidavit?
Mr. DYTrRYK. Well, Bartley Crum and Milton Diamond, two attorneys. Crum had been my attorney before. We took the deposition in the presence of Mr. Thieman, who was the superintendent of the Mill Point Prison. I might also say at this point that I have heard rumors, two different kinds, one that I made the affidavit because I had been offered a job at MGM at $5,000 a week if I would make such an affidavit. This obviously has been proven untrue. The other is Bartley Crum said somebody, not a Communist, had approached him in New York and said, "I understand that they really put the works to Dmytryk in jail, they put the pressure on him, and that is why he made his affidavit." This, too, is not true. There was no pressure, nor has there been of any kind, nor have I ever been offered a bribe or job of any kind-I wish I had-to make either the affidavit or to come here, for that matter.
Mr. TAVENNER. This was a statement made purely on a voluntary basis by you, dictated by the demands of your own conscience ?
Mr. DYTRYK. Dictated by my own conscience absolutely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has there been any effort made since that time to recruit you again into the Communist Party ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, there was right when I came back from England. Herbert Biberman asked me to go back in the party. I told him I couldn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. There is a point that I omitted that I should have asked you earlier in your testimony. Do you recall an occasion when
Mrs. Farogoh approached you about your uniting again in the Communist Party back, I think in 1945, or about that date?
Mr. DxYTRYK. Yes. This was actually after the incident I have mentioned with Lawson when I made up my mind I was going to drift away from the party. The party was being reorganized-I mean the association was finished, and they were reorganizing.
Mr. TAVENNER. This was at the time the Communist Political Association went out of being.
Mr. DMYTRK. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. And the Communist Party came back in.
Mr. DMYTRYK. And the Communist Party came back in, so they were out re'-signing everybody in effect. As a matter of fact, I was out on the street washing my car when Elizabeth Farogoh-I have mentioned the name before-asked me to re-sign. She said she wanted to reissue, that is, issue a new Communist Party card for me. I described to her what had gone on between Scott and Lawson and myself, and said that I was very doubtful about the party. She said, "Well, it won't hurt just to put your name in. You can do as you please about it, because actually things are in a geat state of flux. We ourselves don't know what is going to happen. I must say I said O. K. I did not want to continue the discussion. I had already made up my mind I wasn't going back, but I didn't object to her putting my name back in again. But that is the last time anything of that sort happened.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that in 1945? COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 435 
Mr. DMYTRYK. That was in 1945, the fall of 1945, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now I have asked you all I planned to ask you and all that has occurred to me during the course of your testimony. If there is any further information which you think the committee would be concerned with, I would be very glad for you to make it.
Mr. DMYTRYK. I can't think of anything right now.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions now.
Mr. WOOD. Perhaps members of the committee might think of something they would like to ask. Mr. Walter, are there any questions you would like to ask?
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Dmytryk, it will probably be hours and perhaps days before there will be a real appreciation of the significance and the importance of what you have done here today. To me at least it is refreshing to find that there are people who are willing to assist in our feeble efforts to make a contribution in this world-wide struggle against communism. I feel that this committee is deeply indebted to you. You have come here without any feeling of rancor, which perhaps would be natural as a result of your experience and your being compelled to, serve a sentence in jail. I think that you have made a very great contribution to the fight that all of us are making against communism. 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Thank you.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Frazier.
Mr. FRAZIER. Mr. Chairman, I would like to personally thank Mr. Dmytryk for his very clear and lucid statement of conditions that existed in Hollywood. I think he has contributed very greatly to the work of this committee.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Dmytryk, I too would like to add my thanks for your testimony and contribution. In addition, I would appreciate it very much if you would go into the matter of communism membership. That is, how you have concluded that certain members are members. We all know that sometimes a member carries a Communist Party membership card. Sometimes they weren't allowed to. There are some members that attend Communist Party cell meetings and other functions of the Communist Party several times. And then it has come to my attention that there are Communist Party members, subversives, in this country, who have neither carried Communist Party cards or identification of any kind and have not attended meetings, particularly in the espionage field. So it would enlighten us, I think, considerably if you could tell generally what policy the Communist Party had with reference to carrying membership cards, and so forth.
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I think that the Communist Party policy, to the best of my knowledge, was very fluid in this respect. They examined each person in regard to his qualifications, the kind of work he could do best. I have actually been present at conversations when there was a discussion about whether a certain person who had been an active member of certain Communist fronts and showed that he was willing to take part in these activities-when it was discussed as to whether or not he should be approached and invited into the party to become a member of the party. 436 I know, although I can't identify it specifically, but I remember of at least one instance where it was decided that the person should not be asked to be a party member; that he would actually be more effective if he worked-and, as a matter of fact, to be perfectly fair, I want to say this person who was being discussed probably had no idea he was being discussed by the Communist Party members or that they were even considering asking him, or he was working with Communist members and therefore it was better under certain circumstances that he never be allowed to know or be asked to become a member of the Communist Party.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Dmytryk, I share the belief as it has been ex- pressed by the other members of the committee, that certainly what you have had to say today has contributed a great deal in the way of more perfect understanding on the part of the committee members and of the American public as to the physical operations of the Communist Party organization, with particular reference to Hollywood. I would like to have some comments on this. Much has been said with respect to the outlawry of the Communist Party, and of legislation directed to the outlawing of the party. Objections have been made to such proposal on the grounds that it might tend to drive the Communist Party underground. Would you care to make any comment so far as the operations of the party are concerned?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I would like to read a wire I got here, and the im- portant part of this wire is simply that it relates an interview on Louella Parsons' program last Sunday night between Louella Parsons and a man named Matt Cvetic. I believe he is the man who wrote a book called I Was a Communist For the FBI. Now, in the course of this interview Louella Parsons asked him: "What about the argument that these trials drive the Reds further underground?" This is the same argument you are talking about, the question of outlawing the party. He replied, "Don't fall for that. The Reds try to put that idea across to discourage these trials, but the truth is the Commies always work underground. Anything that brings them in the open hurts them." Then he says, "That is why Hollywood must support Parks and Hayden to encourage more people to speak out." Parsons then asked how smart personalities like Parks and Hayden could be gotten in the party. He replied: "The really frightening cleverness of the Communists is how they understand appealing to people's best emotions-their tolerance-their broadmindedness, and then use those good emotions for their own end." I think I have gone into that in some detail. To give you my own ideas on that, I think actually this committee-and I am glad you asked me that question, since I think I am a constituent of yours, IMr. JACKSON. Almost everyone who sits in "the chair" is.
Mr. DMYTRYK (continuing). I can talk to you, and you have to listen to me. So I hear. I think that you as a member of this committee, let me say, have a great responsibility to the people of the United States. I think the people of the United States in general have been forced into a very contradictory position. On the one hand people say-important people, people in authority, atd important columnists, and people of that sort-that the Communist Party is a legal party; that anyone has a right to belong to the Communist Party.  437 On the other hand, they intimate that anybody who is a Communist should be fired from his job, should not have a position of trust. Now, if the Communist Party is a legal party, every Communist Swho is a member of that party should certainly have the legal protection of the Government of the United States. He should have the right to do what he wishes. What is really happening is that there is being encouraged in this country a kind of mild lynch law or law by vigilance committee. Groups are out to say, "This man is a Communist. Therefore, fire him." I do believe, as I have indicated clearly here today, I think the Communist Party is conspiratorial, subversive, and even in certain cases treasonable. I think for that reason there is no question in my mind-and there is certainly no question in these days of present danger-that the Communist Party should be outlawed, and you will remove the American people from a great contradiction in doing things that really aren't in the best interests of the American Government.
Mr. JACKSON. One more question, if I may, Mr. Chairman. What would you call the final test of credibility of a witness purporting to be a former Communist who has changed his opinions in the period which has intervened between his membership and the present time, and who appears before a committee of this kind ? As one who is very familiar with the Communist Party and with people who were in it, what would you say the test of credibility should be ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I don't know. I sit here in a kind of prejudiced position right now. I am not sure I can answer that question.
Mr. JACKSON. Let me put it this way. Would you say the test of credibility certainly would have to be primarily the willingness to name names, places, and circumstances surrounding such membership ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I personally believe so. That is why I am doing it. I think if a man says that he is convinced that the Communist Party is a subversive or criminal organization, that he certainly shouldn't mind giving names. I know that there have been comments-I don't mean by the Communists but even among certain progressives and liberals-that people who talk are in effect informers. I heard that so much that I went to the dictionary and looked up the word. An informer, roughly speaking, is a man who informs against colleagues or former colleagues, who are engaged in criminal activity. I think the Communists, by using this word against people, are in effect admitting they are engaged in criminal activity. I never heard of anybody informing on the Boy Scouts.
Mr. JACKSON. One last question, Mr. Chairman. A great many witnesses have appeared here in the past, and unquestionably there will be more in the future, who will appear and take their refuge under the protection of certain provisions of the Constitution, specifically the first and fifth amendments. Nobody questions that right. What is your opinion of the sincerity or devotion to American ideals or principles of those witnesses who refuse to answer any questions posed by the committee which touch upon membership in the Communist Party or Communist-front organizations? 438 INDUSTRY 
Mr. DMYTRYK. Again it is a little hard for me to comment on that. I know this. I know from my own experience that the general assumption on everybodys part, if a man refuses to answer, is that he must be a Communist. I know this happened to me after the 1947 hearings. I was under no illusions about that. I knew the minute I refused to testify everybody in the United States who read about it or heard about it automatically assumed I was a Communist.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you think that is an unreasonable assumption ?
Mr. DYrrRYK. I make the same assumption myself. 'Mr. JACKSON. So do I. No further questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter. 
Mr. PorrTT. Mr. Dmytryk, I too wish to compliment you on your forthright, refreshing statement. I know I as an individual member of the committee have learned a great deal, and I am indebted to you for giving us inside information as to the operations of the Communist activities as you have expressed them. I have one specific question: During the time that you were confined to jail was any effort made by the Communists to exploit your wife, for example, knowing of her anxiety for you, to enter into or take part in Communist activities on the assumption it would aid in your release?
Mr. DMYTRYK. Well, I have already mentioned one incident of that. As a matter of fact, that is the only incident I can think of that went on outside of the activities purely of let's say, the wives of the ten. I believe she signed petitions to have me paroled, to have all of us paroled, and that sort of thing. But these were purely activities of the ten, in which of course she had a deep interest. I can think of no specific case of using her for outside purposes, outside of this one I talked about, the junket to Sacramento. Because I am sure she would have had nothing to do with them. As a matter of fact, she was taken on this junket because they were to ask the people in the convention to pass a resolution for our release, or something of that sort.
Mr. POTTER. When were you released from jail?
Mr. DMTRYK. I was released on November 15, 1950.
Mr. POTTER. And since that time has any effort been made by your former colleagues in the jail or former colleagues of the Hollywood Ten to bring you back in the party or to ask you whether you would testify before the committee or find out what you were going to do?
Mr. DMYTRYK. No. One thing was done. This only illustrates how a person can continue to be naive. A short time after I came out of prison, about 2 weeks later Herbert Biberman was released from prison, because he also had a 6-month sentence. He came to me and asked me to cosign a letter with him asking the parole board to parole the other eight. I agreed, on the basis that it would not be political. It wasn't. It was simply on the basis-I think I had an honest point of view about that since we had only served 6 months and the other men were in for exactly the same crime 'we were in for, it seemed unfair they should serve a year. It was also my understanding that this was a letter that would only go to the board of parole. However,
Mr. Biberman released the letter to the press, primarily the Daily Worker or the People's World. I don't know which of those. He announced it from the platform of a meeting. I think this started everybody thinking I was right back in the groove again, which wasn't true. I thought people asked for parole for murderers and thieves CdMMUNIsM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 439 and other things. I thought since I had been through all this with these men-I had served 6 months. I felt guilty getting out while they were still in. After that there was some contact purely on a social basis, which we avoided. That is about all that was ever done.
Mr. POTTER. I wish to thank you again.
Mr. WOOD. Further questions from counsel?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Dmytryk, since your release from prison have you been employed in any capacity ?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I have not.
Mr. JACKSON. Either here or abroad?
Mr. DMYTRYK. I have not.
Mr. JACKSON. You have not?
Mr. DMYTRYK. No.
Mr. JACKSON. What was your last work? 
Mr. DMYTRYK. The last thing here, of course, was my employment at RKO in 1947. I went to England, made two pictures in England for independent companies, for J. Arthur Rank release.
Mr. JACKSON. What was that? 
Mr. DMYTRYK. One was called The Hidden Room, just a sort of suspense melodrama, with Bob Newton. The other was a picture that has two titles over here. The first was Give Us This Day. The other was Salt to the Devil. However, it is better known as the movie version of Christ in Concrete, which is the story of a New York bricklayer and his troubles.
Mr. JACKSON. Has it played a release in the United States ?
Mr. DxYTRYK. A few releases. The other has played pretty generally.
Mr. JACKSON. What was the acceptance here and abroad?
Mr. DMYTRYK. The acceptance abroad has been very broad. I won practically all the prizes in Europe last year as best director of the year. I won the Venice Festival Award, the Paris Press Cup, the Vichy Festival prize. The picture won several prizes at various European festivals. Here we got-I would call it mixed reception. Some critics rave about it. Others didn't like it. A few thought they detected signs of Communist Party line in it, but this has become so because they suspected me naturally of being a Communist, and they had reasons to do that. However, there was no Communist Party line in the picture. But, as I say, it hasn't played enough, because many exhibitors are afraid to play my pictures over here, so that it is hard to say how the people would accept it. 
Mr. JACKSON., Thank you again for your testimony.
Mr. WooD. Further questions?
Mr. TAVENNER. No questions.
Mr. WooD. Permit me, Mr. Dmytryk, to add my feeble expression of appreciation for your coming here and for the assistance you have given this committee. Not only that, but the information that you have given to the American people, millions of whom haven't the vaguest idea or conception of what the Communist movement in America stands for and its real aims and purposes. I feel your contribution is a great deal more valuable to the American people than it is even to this committee. appreciation. And for all of it I express to you my very deep 440 If there is no further reason to detain this witness, Mr. Counsel, you may excuse him. (Witness excused.)
Mr. WOOD. The committee will stand adjourned at this point, subject to being called together at such time as it may be deemed necessary. There will be no meeting tomorrow. (Whereupon, at 4: 10 p. m., the committee adjourned subject to call.) COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 2 WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN AcTIVITIES, Washington, D. C. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to call at 10 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis C. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder (appearance as noted in transcripts, Clyde Doyle, James B. Frazier, Jr., Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter. Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler and Courtney E. Owens, investigators; John W. Carrington, clerk; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WooD. Let us have order, please, and let the record show that there are present the following members of the committee: Mr. Walter,
Mr. Doyle, Mr. Frazier, Mr. Velde, Mr. Kearney, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Potter, and Mr. Wood, a quorum of the committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Chairman, I desire to call as the first witness
Mr. Leonardo Bercovici.
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand, please? You solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God
Mr. BERCOVICI. I do. TESTIMONY OF LEONARDO BERCOVICI, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, EUGENE GRESSMAN
