Mr. BUCHMAN. I am. 
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that your full name ?
Mr: BUCHMAN. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented by counsel?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I am. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify himself for the record.
Mr. SIEGEL. R. Lawrence Siegel, of Pepper & Siegel, 55 Liberty Street, New York, N. Y.
Mr. Chairman, will you indulge me to make a motion for a few seconds ? I will be very brief.
Mr. WooD. A motion?
Mr. SIEGEL. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. Of what nature?
Mr. SIEGEL. I would like to move to vacate the subpena on several legal grounds, sir. It will take about 2 seconds if you want to indulge me. 
Mr. WooD. Let's inquire of the witness first if he has been subpenaed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you responded here today in answer to a subpena served on you ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Yes, sir. 
Mr. SIEGEL. May I proceed, Mr. Chairman?
Mr. WOOD. The witness has been subpenaed. This is not the proper forum in which to attack the validity of a subpena. The committee's  INDUSTRY only recourse in presenting witnesses is by its subpenas. 313 If it should become necessary in some future time to attack the validity of it, there is a proper forum in which to do it. My view of it is that this is not the proper forum. However, if you have a written motion there you may file it.
Mr. SIEGEL. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Buchman, will you state, -please, when and where you were born ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Brainerd, Minn., June 24, 1912.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present place of residence ?
Mr. BucHMAN. 607 North Crescent Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Screen writer.
Mr. VELDE. Would the witness speak up ?
Mr. BUCIMAN. Screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state briefly to the committee what your educational training has been.
Mr. BUCHMAN. Well, my family moved to New York when I was about 8. I went through the New York public school system. I graduated from George Washington High School in 1929. The fall of that year I entered the University of Pennsylvania and I stayed there 4 years, until I received an A. B. degree in 1933.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee briefly your employment record since the completion of your education.
Mr. BUCHMAN. I have never known any other profession except screen writing. I went to Hollywood, oh, perhaps 6 months after graduation from college.
Mr. TAVENNER. That would be in what year ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Either the very end of 1933 or the beginning of 1944. I don't recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean the beginning of 1934?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Did I say 1944? I mean 1934. And I wrote stories without success for a year or so, finally sold a very important--unimportant, I should say-story, and on the basis of it I obtained a job at Columbia Pictures, where I stayed for about 3 years, writing dozens and dozens of what we call program pictures in celluloid-low budget films.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give us the approximate dates? You said for a period of 3 years.
Mr. BUCHMAN. Oh, from about 1935 through a good deal of 1938 I worked exclusively at Columbia. In 1939 I worked at Universal. At Universal I did several films. In 1940 I went to Fox, 20th Century Fox, and I think all of my Hollywood employment for the next 4 or 5 years was at 20th Century Fox. I was under contract.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you living during that period of time, from 1940 up through 1945 ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. In a community not far from Beverly Hills called Westwood-called West Los Angeles. I think the exact street was Homedale Street.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the number of your residence?
Mr. BUCHMAN. It had 5 numbers. I think it was 11132. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. You worked there until 1945, and then from 1945 what was your employment ? 314 INDUSTRY 
Mr. BUCHMAN. I worked at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer following that. I worked at Metro, I believe, from December of 1945 until about June of 1947. Possibly May of 1947. My next employment was at Twentieth Century Fox. In 1948 I worked at Fox for a brief time. I then had no employment for, oh, almost a year. My next job was at Paramount in 1949. I worked at Paramount from 1949, September, to I believe about March of 1950. I have not been employed since except for a couple of weeks at Columbia for my brother, who produces there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your brother's name is Sidney, I believe?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Sidney Buchman. And save for those few weeks, I have not been employed since I left Paramount.
Mr. TA NNER. Duringthis period of time when you worked in Hollywood as a screen writer, were you a member of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. BUCHMAX. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What official positions have you held in the Screen Writers' Guild, and the approximate dates? MJr. BUCHMAN. Well, I know that I have been a member of the executive board.
Mr. WooD. Will you please elevate your voice?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I have been a member of the executive board. What years, I could not say. I have served in the guild for so many years on committees, like credit union, arbitration, and what not, that I would really be hard pressed to say. Possibly in 1945 and 1946, in those years, I was a member of the board. I know that I was a member of the board. In fact, I was treasurer for a couple of years of the guild. I was elected to the board in October of 1949 and served until-served a full year until October, I think, was the election date in the guild, of 1950. I hold no office in the guild now.
Mr. TAVENNER. You apparently were on the executive board or possibly the treasurer at about the time that the issue arose as to whether or not the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization should continue to receive the support of the guild. What can you tell us about that?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Well, Mr. Chairman, I respectfully decline to answer that question, under the fifth amendment, on the ground that it may tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then do I understand that you refuse to answer any question that I might ask you regarding your knowledge of the operations of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I merely feel, Mr. Chairman, that in the context of this hearing, in relation to certain matters which I feel I don't have to acquaint you with, that I don't feel compelled, or rather I feel that I cannot in any way be asked to provide any kind of evidence against myself in terms of names or facts or any shred of evidence which might be used against me in a prosecution. I deplore theMr. WooD. Is it your thought, sir, that to answer questions involving the activities of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization might have such a tendency to incriminate you?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Yes, sir, I do.
Mr. WOOD. And is it for that reason that you decline to answer any questions concerning the operation of that organization ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Yes, sir.  INDUSTRY 315, 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to travel outside the con- tinental limits of the United States at any time during the period you were in Hollywood as a screen writer ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Yes, sir. I went to Europe for about 5 months, I believe.
Mr. TAVENNER. What countries did you visit?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I visited first England. From England I took a boat to the Soviet Union. From there I went to Austria. From Austria I went to Italy. From Italy I went to France. From France I went to Switzerland, back to Austria to ski. I then went to Paris, back to London again, and then home.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you in the Soviet Union ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I think 5 or 6 weeks.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was you purpose in going?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Well, I think I'd describe it as a grand tour, a trip throughout Europe that I was always wanting to make. I had saved just enough money to make it. I was single.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the date of the trip ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I think I left New York in August and returned in February, althoughMr. TAVENNER. Of what year ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. 1937 to 1938. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were your expenses paid entirely by yourself or was there a contribution from any source toward your expenses ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. None whatsoever. All my own. I was purely a tourist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated with the People's Educational Center?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I must decline to answer that, sir, on the grounds I previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Buchman, the committee has information that you held Communist Political Association card No. 46802 for the year 1944, and a Communist Party card for the year 1945 bearing'the number 47174, which bore the address 11232 Homedale. Is that correct?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I must decline to answer that question, sir, on the grounds previously stated.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Communist Party at any time, and are you a member now ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I must decline to answer that question on the grounds that it may tend to incriminate me.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Doyle?
Mr. DOYIE. Mr. Buchman, you related that you were a member of the Hollywood Writers' Guild. As I recall it, that group is not listed as subversive, is it, in the book issued March 3, 1951?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I was not asked any questions about the Screen Writers' Guild, sir, except in relation to a matter which gives me a sense of apprehension about incrimination. (Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. In other words, you do not find the Hollywood Screen Writers' Guild listed, do you, in this book referred to ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I find the Mobilization, Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DonE. What page is that on?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Fifty-seven. 81595-51-pt. 2-2 316 INDUSTRY 
Mr. DOYLE. The Hollywood Writers' Mobilization is listed as the third item on page 57. I am not asking you about that, sir. I am asking you or going to ask you briefly about the Hollywood Screen Writers' Guild. Are they one and the same ? Is that why you don't answer?
Mr. BUCHMAN. No. It is merely the context of the question, Mr. Doyle. They are not the same, except that I feel that very likely in the near future they could be the same.
Mr. DoYLE. Because of the similarity
Mr. BUCHMAN. No, because of certain testimony and a long history in Hollywood, which I feel because of my election in 1949that I feel like a candidate who is impervious to political winds. I feel that I was very honored in 1949 that the guild looked upon me as an individual and considered that I owed no loyalty to any other organization except the guild.
Mr. DOYLE. Then do you feel if I asked you any question about the functioning of the Hollywood Screen Writers' Guild that you would be compelled to decline to answer because you think it might incriminate you ? I don't want to waste your time and the committee's time if that is going to be your answer.
Mr. SIEGEL. May I ask a question for clarification, which I think may simplify it. When you say "Hollywood Screen Writers' Guild," Congressman Doyle, do you mean the Screen Writers' Guild? I think that is what is confusing the witness. (Representative Francis E. Walter returned to the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. I refer to the Screen Writers' Guild. What would be your answer to that? Do you feel that if I asked you any question about the Screen Writers' Guild that you would be compelled in your own conscience to refuse to answer on the grounds that it might incriminate you ? It is not listed, as near as I can see, in this book, is it ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Well, I just honestly feel, Mr. Doyle, that it would be difficult for you to ask a question in which I could not sense a line of inquiry that I feel might lead to some future prosecution of myself. This is a regrettable situation. I certainly didn't cause it.
Mr. DOYLE. Have you ever read the law or has your counsel informed you of what the jurisdiction of this committee is and the purpose of this hearing?
Mr. BucHMAN. I have a general understanding of it; yes, sir.
Mr. DOYLE. What is your understanding of it ? Do you understand my question?
Mr. BUCHMAN.- Yes.
Mr. DOYLE. I am asking you, frankly, as one American to another: What do you understand the jurisdiction of this committee is at this sort of a hearing this morning?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Well, like many congressional committees, a committee attempting to get information, the end product of which is legislation.
Mr. DOYLE. Legislation for what purpose?
Mr. BTCHMAN. I don't know. That is the big problem, Mr. Doyle. I would like to say this: I have known of you for a long time and applauded your election many years ago, and sitting in this room was impressed with your own sincere desire to understand what is going on here. I don't think we have any argument, Mr. Doyle, about force and violence. I think it is a political doctrine that is-well,  317 in a country that has had 150 years of democratic processes, I have never envisioned any change for this country which could not be achieved within that document, the Constitution.
Mr. DOYLE. In view of the observation that you have just made- that you felt I was sincere in my committee approach to these problems-I wish to say that I think all members of this committee are sincere in trying to do the job we are assigned to do. I take it, therefore, you haven't had the time to read this assignment under the bill which the committee functions under, which is Public Law 601. May I ask you this: Wouldn't you feel it is the duty and responsibility of this committee to examine into the extent and character and objectives of subversive conduct in this country, if we were assigned to do that by Congress? AMr. BUCHMAN. Yes, sir. Sitting there last week I accepted your Webster definition of "subversive," but beyond that point-and this is where we get into trouble, and I speak as someone who considers himself no less loyal than any man in this room in combating a forceful overthrow of this country in an armed conflict. I would bear arms in defense of this country. But beyond that, Mr. Doyle, there are many questions of what this country is. I mean what it embodies. I think that my opinion of this committee may not be worth anything because the accusation could be made that, singled out by it, I am very prejudiced and that my opinion is worth nothing. But I could find a stack of very conservative opinion, Mr. Doyle, to the effect that this committee is not a good committee. (Representative Harold H. Velde entered the hearing room.)
Mr. DOYLE. May I ask you this question with reference to the Screen Writers' Guild. From your answers in the record, it is very apparent that the Screen Writers' Guild is not listed as subversive by this committee or any records that this committee has published. May I ask you this in connection with the functioning of the Screen Writers' Guild. Are you a member of the Screen Writers' Guild now ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. I couldn't say. I haven't been in Hollywood in a number of weeks. I assume I am. I haven't been notified that my membership was terminated.
Mr. DOYLE. At any time during the time you were active as a mem- ber of the Screen Writers' Guild, were you aware in your own belief, from understanding the situation, of any effort, either direct or indirect, on the part of the Communist Party in the United States to gain any control, either by election of officers or committees, of the Screen Writers' Guild ?
Mr. BUCHMAN. Well, I must decline to answer that question, Mr. Doyle, because of the obvious placing of it. 
Mr. DOYLE. Of course, I am deliberately placing it to find out whether or not the Screen Writers' Guild, which is not listed as sub- versive, was an object of desire on the part of the Communist Party of the United States as one of the groups they wanted to control. That is the purpose of my question. I am not asking you whether you were a member of the Communist Party or not, sir.
Mr. BUCHMAN. Well, I am trying to be a truthful witness, Mr. Doyle. I feel that an honest declination to answer under the fifth amendment is a very old and good answer. It is the only one I can give. 318 
Mr. DOmiE. Thank you very much. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde?
Mr. VELDE. I have no questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson?
Mr. JACKSON. Whom did you go to work for in 1949 at Paramount?
Mr. BUCHMAN. 'A man named Milton Holmes.
Mr. JACKSON. Milton Holmes? 
Mr. BUCHMAN. H-o-l-m-e-s.
Mr. JACKSON. What agency are you connected with?
Mr. BUCHMAN. At that time it was the Willner-Goldstone agency, which I had for about a year. Prior to that it was the Mary Baker, and for many years a man named Lucien Swanson.
Mr. JACKSON. Am I correct that in 1948 you were at 20th Century Fox?
Mr. BUCHMAN. That's correct.
Mr. JACKSON. What scripts did you do during that time? 
Mr. BUCHMAN. I wrote a story about psychosomatic medicine for a man named Kaufman-a comedy. We sold it to 20th, and we went to work on the screen play, which I hear is now on the shelf. There are so many. It has never been produced.
Mr. WOOD. Any further questions by counsel? 
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir. 
Mr. WooD. Is there any reason why this witness should not be excused ?
Mr. TAVENNER. NO, sir. The next witness is Anne Revere.
Mr. WOOD. Will you please raise your right hand. You do solemnly swear the testimony you give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God ?
Miss REVERE. I do. TESTIMONY OF ANNE REVERE, ACCOMPANIED BY HER COUNSEL, R. LAWRENCE SIEGEL
