Mr. GARFIELD. John Jules Garfield.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you represented here by counsel ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I am.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will counsel please identify themselves for the record ?
Mr. NIZER. My name is Louis Nizer, L-o-u-i-s N-i-z-e-r.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have associate counsel with you?
Mr. NIZER. Mr. Sidney Davis is with me; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where is your official residence?
Mr. NIZER. New York City, 180 West Fifty-eighth Street.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Garfield, when and where were you born?
Mr. GARFIELD. I was born in New York City, on the East Side,. March 4, 1913.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present address?
Mr. GARFIELD. I pay taxes in California. I guess I would say 1052' North Carroll Drive, Los Angeles, is my business and present address,. although my children go to school in New York City.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where are you now living, in New York or California ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I live both in California and New York, mostly in California. I pay taxes in California. I consider myself legally a resident of California.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your profession?
Mr. GARFIELD. Actor.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you give to the committee a brief statement of your educational training for your profession ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I went to public school in New York City. I never finished high school. I then went to dramatic school, and from that first dramatic school I went to the Eva Le Gallienne Repertory School, where I was an apprentice or, as we call it in the theater, a "spear COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY 329 carrier." Then I gradually worked my way in the theater and started as an actor in the theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you trace for us'your career or profession since you entered the theater ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I started out studying for the legitimate theater, which I was always interested in, because a man in the public-school system by the name of Angelo Patri was the principal who influenced me in going into that work, and the first inclination was when I won an oratorical contest sponsored by the New York Times in 1927 on a subject called Franklin the Peace Maker of the Constitution. I think I started my acting career that way. From then on I became more and more interested in school dramatics, and I gave up any other interest, and then went to dramatic school, won a scholarship, and from there played with the Hecksher Foundatioii, which was another dramatic school, and finally applied for a scholarship of Miss Le Gallienne's which was a school for young people, which I got, and from there I hitchhiked across the country to see America, and came back and played bits. For instance, I think I was a bit player with Fritz Lieber's Shakespearean players at a buck a throw. From there I played Little Old Boy about a reform school; had a small part in Peace on Earth; had a part in Counselor at Law by Elmer Rice; I had a pretty good part in that. Then I got in the Group Theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
Mr. GARFIELD. That was about in 1934, or possibly 1933. I know that the group had just done Sidney Kingsley's play Man and Wife. I got in the group right after that. Then I stayed with the group until it broke up and they all went to Hollywood. I stayed on Broadway and played in a play called Having a Wonderful Time. Then the group returned and I was in Golden Boy. Then I left the group on my own and went to Hollywood in 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. Trace briefly your experience in Hollywood in your profession.
Mr. GARFIELD. I came to Hollywood in 1938. I think I made approximately 31 pictures. The first picture was called Four Daughters. It was produced by Warner Bros. I was under contract to Warner Bros. 71/2 years, and we made many outstanding, fine pictures at Warner Bros. One or two or three came to my mind, such as Destination Tokyo; Air Force, the story of the Air Corps during the bombing of Pearl Harbor; and one I am particularly proud of, Pride of the Marines, the story of Al Schmidt in Guadalcanal.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your experience with Warner Bros. for 71/ years brings us up to the middle of 1945 I assume ?
Mr. GARFIELD. 1945 or 1946. Then I went into business for myself. I produced, or helped produce, Body and Soul, then played in Gentlemen's Agreement, which I had nothing to do with except work for Twentieth Century-Fox. I worked for Columbia in We Were Strangers, and played in Force of Evil, an expos of the number racket. The last picture I did was He Ran All the Way, which I did myself. 330 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Garfield, after you were served with a sub- pena to appear before this committee as a witness, the New York Times carried a statement attributed to you which is as follows: I have always hated communism. It is a tyranny which threatens our country and the peace of the world. Of course, then, I have never been a member of the Communist Party or a sympathizer with any of its doctrines. I will be pleased to cooperate with the committee. Were you correctly quoted in the news article which I have just read?
Mr. GARF1LD. Absolutely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is it a fact that you have always hated communism, as stated in that news release? SMr. GARFELD. Absolutely, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you of the opinion and belief that communism is a tyranny which threatens our country and the peace of the world?
Mr. GAREn=. I believe so. I think it is a subversive movement and is a tyranny and is a dictatorship and is against democracy.
Mr. TAVENNER Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. GARIELD. I have never been a member of the Communist Party. 
Mr. TAVENNER. If you are willing to cooperate with the committee, as stated in this news release, in its endeavor to ascertain the extent of Communist infiltration into the entertainment field, particularly into the motion-picture industry, it will be necessary to ask you questions relating to your knowledge of Communist activities in that field, and especially about your own conduct in connection with organizations to which you have belonged and as to experiences which you have had. I understand you are willing to cooperate with the committee?
Mr. GARFELD. Mr. Tavenner, I will answer any question you put to me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, you have stated to us that you went to Holly- wood, I believeMr. GARIEELD. In 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1938?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVNNER. Let me ask you a few questions about the period prior to that time.
Mr. GARIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have before me the December 10, 1936, edition or issue of the Daily Worker, which has a column in it entitled "A YCL Drama Against War," and a subheading entitled "League Plans Gigantic Pageant for Lenin Memorial." In the course of that article appears the statement that "Jules Garfield of the Group Theatre is lending a hand in the promotion of this program." The program, of course, was a Young Communist League program. Will you hand the article to Mr. Garfield (Said article was handed to Mr. Garfield.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you examine it and state whether or not you did participate in any way, lending your influence or your help to the organization of that program by the Young Communist League of New York?
Mr. GARFIELD. I have no knowledge of lending my name to this organization, particularly an organization called the Young Communist  INDUSTRY 331 League, because, believe me, if I had heard of such a name I would have run like hell. I have absolutely no knowledge of this; none whatsoever. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time affiliated in any way with the Young Communist League? 
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Reference is made in the article to your being a member of the Group Theater.
Mr. GARFIELD. That is correct, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the Group Theater?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, the Group Theater was an offspring of the Theater Guild. The Theater Guild was comprised of the lead theatrical producers on Broadway for many years and is now. Certain members of the guild at that time wanted to form a permanent acting company, so they broke away from the guild. I joined the Group Theater when it had been already organized, and at the time I joined it, the Group Theater was run in this manner: There were three artistic directors, Miss Cheryl Crawford, now a producer on Broadway; Mr. Harold Clurman; and Mr. Lee Strassbourg. It was devoted mostly to doing plays which had to do with American life. It did plays by Sidney Kingsley, William Saroyan, and Clifford Odets. It was never at any time, to my knowledge, a political organization. It was an organization for actors to improve their craft, studying diction and so forth, and had the distinct honor of discovering Tennessee Williams.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long were you a member of the Group Theater?
Mr. GARFIELD. Four or five years. 
Mr. TAVENNER. That would bring us up to what date, your member- ship?
Mr. GARFIELD. Up until the time I went to Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was cited as a Communist organization by the Tenney committee in 1948.
Mr. GARFIELD. I was not a member of the Group Theater in 1948.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know anything of its operations in 1948 ?
Mr. GARFIELD. It was a defunct organization. I believe it became a defunct organization in 1940; 1940 or 1941, if I am not mistaken.
Mr. TAVENNER. While you were a member of the Group Theater, did anything occur to lead you to believe that there was Communist activity within the Group in the form of an effort to influence its action or the way in which it operated ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. You mean in the actual functioning of the organiza- tion or the plays that were done ?
Mr. TAVENNER. In the functioning of the organization or the adop- tion of the policies which it followed.
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't think so. As I said, it was purely run on an artistic basis. In other words, it was run by these three people, and it was purely run on an artistic basis. It was not a political organization. Of course the actors on Broadway used to call us peculiar because we .didn't accept employment on the outside, and took much less money than we usually would get, because we wanted to work together. And we worked in a certain way. We had a technical craft and worked in a certain way, and they thought that was kind of strange. 81595-51-pt. 2---3 332 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you hold camps out in the State of New York, one in a place named Ellenville? 
Mr. GARFIELD. Oh, yes. We didn't have camps. I can explain that. We went out every summer, with our children, families, to rehearse the next season's play. We went to Ellenville and took an old hotel, and all the people lived in the hotel through the summer, to rehearse the play.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall any occasions when, at those camps, people were brought in who attacked the principles of our form of government?
Mr. GARFIELD. I do not, sir. I do recall, however, that one of the directors, or two, I am not just clear, had just come from Moscow where they had seen the Moscow Art Theater, and they talked about that. That is my best recollection of that. It is pretty long ago.
Mr. TAVENNER. I understood you went to Hollywood in 1938 ?
Mr. GARFIELD. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the circumstances which led to your going to Hollywood ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, I had turned down Hollywood for 5 years. I was not interested. I was promised the lead in a play. It is a very personal story but I don't mind telling you.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not interested, for purposes here, in going into a personal story. Let us confine it. to this: Who induced you to embark upon the Hollywood enterprise ?
Mr. GARFIELD. They had been wanting me to come for 5 years and I turned it down because I wanted to be free to play in the theater. I started in the theater and wanted to continue my work in the theater. I had a falling out with some of the directors in the Group on the basis of a part I was supposed to get and didn't get, so I was a little angry and signed a contract. Warner Bros. signed me at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Harold Clurman, C-l-u-r-m-a-n ?
Mr. GARFIELD. He was one of the directors of the Group Theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. What part did he play in your going to Hollywood ?
Mr. GARFIELD. He was against my going to Hollywood. He wanted me to stay in the Group Theater.
Mr. TAVENNER. When you went to Hollywood you became employed immediately with Warner Bros., did you ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have an agent to represent you ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. I did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In making that employment? 
Mr. GARFIELD. I did. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was your business agent?
Mr. GARFIELD. It was a company, A. and S. Lyons. The man who actually was influential is now deceased. His name was Sam Lyons.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did any other person represent you as a business agent ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Not at that time, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Catherine Roberts at any time represent you as a business agent ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, not at that time. She does now.
Mr. TAVENNER. She does now 
Mr. GAFIEmD. Yes.  INDUSTRY 333 
Mr. TAVENNER. When did that relationship begin?
Mr. GARFIELD. Possibly around 1941; 1941 or 1942. 
Mr. TAVENNER. After arriving in Hollywood and becoming estab- lished in business there in the practice of your profession, did you have occasion to meet a person by the name of Elizabeth Leech?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, I never have.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly you may have known her by another name, Elizabeth Leech Glenn, G-1-e-n-n.
Mr. GARFIELD. That is a name that is not familiar to me.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Garfield, will you speak a little louder, please, sir.
Mr. GARFIELD. Oh, I beg your pardon. No, I don't know that indi- vidual at all.
Mr. MOULDER. Do we have any evidence that she was known by any other name, Mr. Counsel? 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. That was her married name. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of Margaret Potts I
Mr. GARFIELD. No; I don't know anybody by that name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with a person by the name of Barbara Myers ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Eleanor Abowitz, A-b-o-w-i-t-z ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. That is a familiar name, but I didn't become ac- quainted with her. It is a familiar name. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall this incident, or an incident, when she made arrangements for you to make a speech in behalf of Charlotte Bass, who was a candidate for city council of Los Angeles ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I beg your pardon. Bass for city council. for Charlotte Bass. I never spoke for Charlotte I spoke for Helen Gahagan Douglas, but never 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall whether Eleanor Abowitz spoke to you about it and endeavored to get your assistance ?
Mr. GARFIELD. It is possible. I don't want to say "Yes" or "No." But I know that is a familiar name. 
Mr. TAVENNER. But you have no recollection of her having made arrangements with you for such a speech? 
Mr. GARFIELD. NO sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. While in Hollywood did you become acquainted with a person by the name of Sidney Benson ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I know that name, too. It is a familiar pame. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you tell us anything about the business in which Sidney Benson was engaged?
Mr. GARFIELD. I have no recollection. Was he a writer?
Mr. TAVENNER. I think he also went by the name of Sidney Bern- stein, B-e-r-n-s-t-e-i-n.
Mr. GARFIELD. No. Does that strike a bell with you? I know a Benson who is a writer, a radio writer. But the Abowitz name strikes a bell with me. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you know about the activities of Eleanor Abowitz ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't know anything about her activities. name itself rings. I remember hearing that name before. The 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated at any time in a business way with Hugo Butler? 334 INDUSTRY 
Mr. GARFIELD. He was a writer. Not in a business way, but I know him as a screen writer.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated with him at any time in the production of a picture ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, yes, yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. What picture was that?
Mr. GARFIELD. A picture called He Ran All the Way, just recently, 6 or S months ago.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he interested with you in an enterprise known as Xandu Films, X-a-n-d-u?
Mr. GARFIELD. I think he was in that. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us about that?
Mr. GARFIELD. That was a kind of organization, or a group of people, who thought they would get together and go into business for themselves. It failed. That is the best that I remember of it. I think that he was in that. I am not sure, but I think so. But I know him more from having written this script that I just finished, "He Ran All the Way."
Mr. TAVENNER. When did he write that script?
Mr. GARFIELD. This past summer, because we shot the picture in October.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any knowledge or information to cause you to believe that he was at any time a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. GARFIED. None, whatsoever, sir. As a matter of fact, the only relationship I had with him was purely on a craft basis, the picture and the writing of the script. That is the only acquaintance I ever had with him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Hyman Kraft ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Hy Kraft?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sometimes referred to as "Hy" Kraft.
Mr. GARFIELD. I knew him, yes, but it was very casual.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated with him closely enough that you had any means of knowing or judging as to what his Communist affiliations might be?
Mr. GARFIELD. I knew him only casually. I know Butler much better than I know Kraft.
Mr. WOOD. Spell that name.
Mr. TAVENNER. H-y-m-a-n K-r-a-f-t. 
Mr. GARFIELD. He is known as "Hy" Kraft. He used to be a radio writer. I haven't seen him in years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Herbert Biberman, B-i-b-e-r-m-a-n ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I know him casually. I wasn't acquainted with him. I didn't socialize with him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he at one time endeavor to get you to endorse an advertisement to Open the New Front Now, that program?
Mr. GARIELD. Can you tell me what year that was ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I should have said Second Front instead of. New Front. It was in the period along the latter part of 1942 or early 1943.
Mr. GARFIELD. In other words, you mean about the Russians? In other words, the period we were allies with the Russians ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.  335 
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't specifically remember it, but I certainly felt, as everyone else felt, that the Russians were our allies, and therefore we tried to help as much as possible.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not asking about your views. I am asking what Biberman did, if you recall?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't know. I couldn't answer that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time make any contributions to a publication known as the New Masses, and I call your attention particularly to the year 1945 when a person by the name of Doretta Tarmon, T-a-r-m-o-n, was active in securing donations?
Mr. GARFIELD. And she claimed she got money from me ?
Mr. TAVENNER. I am asking if you did make contributions to it?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't know this person.
Mr. TAVENNER. You do not?
Mr. GARFIELD. NO.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, did you make contributions to the New Masses through any other person ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I might have possibly subscribed to it from a dra- matic, literary point of view, but I never made any contributions.
Mr. TAVENNER. The New Masses is known as a Communist publica- tion. There were other publications. 
Mr. GARFIELD. For instance, I subscribe to the Christian Science Monitor and Times Magazine. 
Mr. TAVENNER. But what I am asking is whether you took part in any benefit or made any contribution-I am not talking about sub- scribing to the publication, but made a contribution to the People's World, the Daily Worker, and those papers ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Hanns Eisler?
Mr. GARFIELD. I knew him; yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the occasion of your knowing him?
Mr: GARFIELD. He worked in Hollywood for quite a few years as a musician. I met him at cocktail parties, as I met many other people. That was my acquaintance with him. He was a musician in Hollywood. As a matter of fact, he never scored any picture I was in.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was your acquaintanceship with him such that you were from time to time a guest in his home ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Not from time to time. I might have gone to a cock- tail party where I met him, or somebody else's house where I met him. He was not an intimate of mine.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any occasion to believe he was a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. GARFIELD. None whatsoever.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Saul Kaplan, K-a-p-l-a-n?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. He is a musician. I knew him well, in the sense that I visited in his home. He is a young musician who is now working in Hollywood as a composer. I knew him quite well. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any information or reason to believe, as a result of your close acquaintanceship with him, that Saul Kaplan was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. GARFIELD. NO, sir. As a matter of fact, these people-we never discussed politics in that sense; and, second, they never did trust me. I was a liberal, and I don't think the Communists like liberals, and I was quite outspoken about my liberalism. 336 
Mr. TAVENNER. Lester Cole. You are acquainted with Lester Cole, are you not ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. Not acquainted. I know him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you closely enough acquainted with him to have knowledge of his Communist Party membership, activities, or ideas?
Mr. GARFIELD. No. I didn't know him that well.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. I would like to have stated for the record as to whether the names counsel is mentioning are or not, according to the files of the committee, members of the Communist Party, or just individuals in Hollywood. I say this for the reason that, if they are not, it seems to me to be rather unfair to these individuals to place their names in the record without making some statement as to whether or not they are Communists.
Mr. TAVENNER. The person that I have just inquired about was stated to be a member of the Communist Party by a witness, I think, in the course of these hearings, and there is information in the committee's files indicating Communist Party membership of allMr. KEARNEY. Of all the individuals you have mentioned?
Mr. TAVENNER. Of all I have specifically inquired about as to his association with them. There were one or two individuals mentioned in the beginning, in connection with his business enterprises, that that would not apply to, or at least that I am not informed about. One, for instance, is the person who acted as his agent; I think two persons who acted as his agent. I do not recall any information relating to those two.
Mr. MOULDER. In other words, there is no evidence whatsoever that they were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Not to my personal knowledge.
Mr. KEARNEY. The name Biberman-he was one of the 10 convicted Hollywood writers, was he not ?
Mr. TAVENNER. As to Biberman, there is evidence relating to him. As to Elizabeth Leech, she has been mentioned several times during the course of the hearings as a party functionary. Hugo Butler is under subpena to appear here. There is information relating to "Hy" Kraft as being a member of the Communist Party; and the rest of those whose names I mentioned. And I would like to ask you if you were acquainted with Frank Tuttle ?
Mr. WOOD. Spell it.
Mr. TAVENNER. T-u-t-t-l-e.
Mr. GARFIELD. I hardly knew him. I knew who he was. He was a director, but I never worked with him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with George Willner, W-i-l-l-n-e-r ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I knew him; yes. We were members of the same tennis club in Beverly Hills called the Beverly Hills Tennis Club.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you closely enough associated with him to have any knowledge concerning his Communist Party activity or relationship or affiliation ?
Mr. GARFIELD. NO. I had no knowledge of it-none whatsover. We never discussed that.  INDUSTRY 337 
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you at any time become personally acquainted with V. J. Jerome ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you acquainted with Alexander Trachtenberg?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. WOOD. Spell it. 
Mr. TAVENNER. T-r-a-c-h-t-e-n-b-e-r-g.
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. There has been evidence here that the former, Jerome, was a member of the national committee, and Alexander Trachtenberg was also a member of the national committee, of the Communist Party.
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't know. 
Mr. TAVENNER. You have never met those people?
Mr. GARFIELD. NO, sir. .Mr. TAVENNER. While you were in Hollywood, were you associated in any way with Actors' Laboratory, Inc. ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I would like to tell you about that. I was never associated with Actors' Lab; I was never an officers of Actors' Lab. I one time did a play for the veterans' program, not at the Actors' Lab, but at a theater called Las Palmas Theatre, which is downtown. They had a veterans' program, to give scholarships to veterans under the GI Bill of Rights. I checked it before I gave my services, and I found it to be the fact. In other words, they are an authentic school. Atthat time-I believe it was 1946-the major studios sent many of their players to this place. I appeared in a play for them for the purpose of raising money for veterans who had missed 3 or 4 years of their careers, so that they would have an opportunity to be seen again. That is the only relationship I have had with this organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was your personal secretary at that time a person by the name of Helen Schlain ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Sloate, not Schlain; S-l-o-a-t-e. I had a girl who worked for me at that time by that name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did she also go by the name of Helen Schlain
Mr. GARFIELD. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did she hold an official position in the Actors' Laboratory as a secretary or something of that nature ?
Mr. GARFIELD. She hung around there. I don't know what her position was. I had no knowledge of her outside activities.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you at any time authorize her to represent you in connection with any of the business coming before the meetings of that organization ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Absolutely never, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Or did you authorize her to act for you in any other organization ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir; no, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. As an actor it was necessary for you to become a member of the Actors' Guild, was it not ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. The Screen Actors' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Screen Actors' Guild?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1945, during the period of the strike in the moving-picture industry, the Communist Party is alleged to have 338 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY been interested in influencing various groups in connection with that strike. Do you have any knowledge on your own part regarding that effort?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, I have no knowledge of what the Communist Party was doinr, because I had no association with anybody like that, but I was on tXe executive board of the Screen Actors' Guild for 6 years, and during the period of this strike, and I know pretty well what went on in terms of the strike, in terms of the guild's position, and in terms of the general atmosphere at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. What effort was made by the Communist Party to influence the action of the guild with regard to that strike?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, the strike started in 1945. We of the Screen Actors' Guild tried in every way possible to stop it. We played a very impartial role at the beginning. As a matter of us were accused of being sympathetic to the CSU, which side, at the beginning. We then proceeded to get all tion we could, and we did. This took us until about discovered that the culprits in the thing were the CSU. want to settle the strike.. fact, some of was the other the informa1946, and we They didn't 
Mr. TAVENNER. The culprits were who?
Mr. GARFIELD. The CSU, Conference of Studio Unions.
Mr. Tavenner, I have here the minutes of the board of directors of the Screen Actors' Guild from 1945-March 15, 1945, to be specificto 1947, when the most important decisions were made, with motions and secondings, motions which I personally made, which clearly bear out the statement that I make that I was against the strike and felt that this was a strike which was uncalled for and unwarranted. I would like to give this to the committee, if I may, as part of the records, because these minutes show quite conclusively my position, anyway, personally, on how I voted.
Mr. WooD. You may leave a copy with the reporter for such use as the committee may see fit to make of it.
Mr. JACKSON. That is for the use of the committee and not for the record ?
Mr. WooD. That is right. Air. GARFIELD. By the way, I would like to make a point here, Mr. Tavenner, if I may. I was making a picture then, and it was against my interests that the strike continue. I was in the process of making a film then, and it was against my interests that the strike continue, and, as a matter of fact, I went through the picket line with many other people to go to our jobs. This is a summary of a meeting of the board of directors of the Screen Actors' Guild on September 17, 1946. A motion was made by Franchot Tone that members of the guild be instructed to go through picket lines and live up to their contract. This motion was carried, and Garfield voted for it. A motion was made by Franchot Tone, seconded by Leon Ames, that the guild make every effort to see that the studios provide adequate physical protection for its members when crossing picket lines. I voted for the motion, and it was carried.
Mr. TAVENNER. Prior to the adoption of that motion, had you fol- lowed a different approach to that subject? What had been your attitude about the picket line prior to that time  INDUSTRY 339 
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, in the beginning of that period I was personally inclined to be sympathetic, in the beginning; but, when I discovered the real facts in the case, the minutes bear out how I voted.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you assist in the picketing at any time ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No. In 1947 during the hearings somebody got up and said I was in one of the picket lines, and I sent a telegram at that time to the committee-I am sure that it is on record-that this was not correct and was untrue. As a matter of fact, the minutes show that Garfield seconded a motion made by Morgan Wallace: Resolved, That the mail ballot to be sent to the membership should include a statement from the board recommending that members vote against observance of the picket line in the current studio strike. This motion was carried unanimously March 15, 1945. This was the first meeting at which this was discussed.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period in which the Communist Party was interesting itself in that particular strike movement, was there any time when your views coincided with the Communist Party views and aims in connection with that strike, or were they at all times divergent?
Mr. GARFIELD. I would say at most times they were divergent, but I didn't know their point of view. Once I remember a meeting of about 150 actors at a private home which I heard about and went to. As a matter of fact, Ronald Reagan was there, and when he saw me he was surprised, and when I saw him I was surprised, and we reported this at a meeting, that there were special meetings being held. The membership of the Screen Actors' Guild voted 98.9 percent against supporting this strike, eventually.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are you still a member of the guild ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I am not a member of the executive board, but I am a member of the Screen Actors' Guild; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. During the period of this controversy, were you able to identify any persons who, from their statements to you or from other evidence that would satisfy you, were members of the Communist Party, in connection with the activities on this problem?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, they were against the majority opinion. That is the best I can say. They were in favor, for instance, of the position of the CSU, which we weren't.
Mr. VELDE. I don't think you have answered the question that counsel asked you. He asked if you knew of any Communist Party members.
Mr. GARFIELD. Officially, do you mean
Mr. TAVENNER. Either from statements they made to you or from what you learned about them? 
Mr. sir.
Mr. WALTER. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question? GARFIELD. No, 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. You said you were sympathetic with the strike until you learned the real facts. What were the real facts that caused you to change your opinion ?
Mr. GARFIELD. At the beginning, for instance, there was a milk fund being raised for the children of the strikers. It is possible I might have helped in that effort. But when it became violent, and 340 INDUSTRY when the guild as a guild went into the facts of the case to determine where the violence emanated from-it was a jurisdictional disputewhen we got the interested parties together we sat in meetings with them and argued with them, as the minutes of our executive sessions will show, for 1 whole year. We tried to get them to see that the best thing to do was to settle the strike. At the end we discovered that the recalcitrants, the CSU, were not interested in settling the strike, and we issued a statement condemning certain people.
Mr. WALTER. In other words, you found they were interested only in striking and causing disorder
Mr. GARFIELD. They had another purpose.
Mr. WALTER. What was the other purpose ?
Mr. GARmrED. They kept changing their purpose. They started by saying it was a jurisdictional dispute. Then they changed to a fight for wages and hours.
Mr. WALTER. In other words, you concluded the whole thing was a Communist movement and not a legitimate labor dispute?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, it was not a legitimate labor dispute.
Mr. WALTER. It was then that you lost sympathy with the strike ?
Mr. GARFELD. That is right.
Mr. KEAREY. Do your records show it was a Communist-inspired strike?
Mr. GARFIELD. The minutes of the Screen Actors' Guild, you mean? No, sir.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did the Screen Actors' Guild determine it was a Com- munist-inspired strike?
Mr. GARFIELD. They didn't state it that way.
Mr. KEARNEY. But they had that in their minds ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Did you have that in your mind, Mr. Garfield ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir; I did.
Mr. VELDE. What caused you to believe it was a Communist-inspired strike?
Mr. GARFIELD. I felt it was not a legitimate strike on the part of a labor union fighting for real demands, and that certain groups were using this strike as a wedge.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you know Herbert K. Sorrell?
Mr. GARFIELD. We met him. I didn't know him personally.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did you know he was a Communist ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I didn't know that, but I knew he was the fellow on the other end of the line, so to speak, and the executive board of the Screen Actors' Guild met with him to try to settle the strike.
Mr. KEARNEY. He was against settling it ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes.
Mr. KEARNEY. As a matter of fact, it was he and his crowd who prolonged the strike?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. WooD. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have referred to your vote on that matter. Was Anne Revere one of those who voted on that same resolution ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I am sure she did. She was a member of the Board of the Screen Actors' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Which way did she vote ?  
Mr. GARuELDU . Well, it is pretty difficult to remember. 341 I know how I voted. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did she vote the same way with you or contrary to that?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, it is very difficult to say. I know how I voted because I have two letters here by members of the board at the time that I was a member of it, in which they remember my way of voting.
Mr. KEARNEY. Don't the minutes show the way they voted?
Mr. GARFIELD. Some do and some don't. On this vote they don't indicate the names.
Mr. KEARNEY. Did they indicate yours?
Mr. GARFIELD. There was no indication of any names.
Mr. KEARNEY. The letters do, though? 
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. NIZER. May we offer those?
Mr. TAVENNER. The minutes merely refer to the vote for and against?
Mr. GARFIELD. The final vote. If you go through the minutes, you will see very easily how certain people voted.
Mr. WOOD. The letters that the witness has tendered will be feceived by the reporter for such consideration as the committee may see fit to give them.
Mr. POTTER. Are the minutes you have submitted to the committee full minutes or excerpts from the minutes ?
Mr. GARFIELD. They are full minutes, detailed. They have the voting record on most of the resolutions.
Mr. POTTER. And that will be found in the minutes which you have submitted ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Garfield, the committee is in possession of con*siderable information relating to various Communist-front organizations with which you are alleged to have affiliated in one way or another, or sponsored, and I would like to ask you some questions about those. 
Mr. GARFIELD. Surely.
Mr. TAVENNER. The Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee is one. It appears.that you sponsored a dinner held at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles on February 4, 1945, under the auspices of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee, which dinner was held for the purpose of raising funds.
Mr. GARFIELD. I have no knowledge of being a member of that organization,, and I don't have any recollection of sponsoring that dinner.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will check further to make certain of the exact date and circumstances, and we will return to the question. Let me ask if you recall at such a meeting that you introduced Paul Robeson?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't have any recollection. I possibly could have gone to it, but I never was a member of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. You would recall if you introduced Paul Robeson, wouldn't you ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I certainly would.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't recall it. If it was during the war, then it is possible that that might have happened. 342 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall in 1946 that a Mr. John Webber interviewed you with reference to sponsoring a dinner at the WaldorfAstoria Hotel in New York City on behalf of the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee?
Mr. GARFIELD. Interviewed me? Did I sponsor the dinner ?
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he confer with you about it ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I knew him, but I don't recall his interviewing me about sponsoring the dinner.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall if you did sponsor such a dinner ?
Mr. GARFIELD. To the best of my knowledge I have no recollection of that, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall on July 20, 1942, that the Joint AntiFascist Refugee Committee sponsored what was called a free people's dinner at the Beverly Hills Hotel to raise funds for the transportation of anti-Axis leaders out of France ?
Mr. GARFIELD. If it was during the war, it is possible I might have been at this meeting, but I don't specifically remember that function.
Mr. TAVENNER. You don't remember whether you were a sponsor of it or not ? 'Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir. You know, I would like to point out, Mr. Tavenner, what a difficult and tough situation a guy like me is in, because I get a million requests all the time from various organizations, some very worthy ones, and I would like to point out to the committee an example of what happened to me, because I am in this situation where I am in the public eye and people think "He is a nice guy; maybe he will do it for us; why not do it," and so forth. I have a letter from the National Citizens' Political Action Committee dated August 7, 1945, in which it is stated. The executive board invites you to serve on this general council because of your continued interest in our organization. Meetings will not be called frequently so that the time demand will not be great. I would like to point out particularly this last paragraph: We sincerely hope that you will join us in the work of our important organization. We would appreciate knowing your wishes in this matter. If we receive no reply from you by Friday, August 17, we will consider your position as accepting membership on our general council. I answered "No," but it is just possible that a thing like this would come to me and I would throw it away in a wastebasket, and 3 months from now I would be on this committee.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, may I just suggest-Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. That isn't every other person in the motion-picture industry in precisely the same position?
Mr. GARFELD. Pretty much so; yes.
Mr. JACKSON. And isn't it true there are literally hundreds of people in the industry whose actions have never made them suspect?
Mr. GARFIELD. Possibly, but I have always been an outstanding liberal.
Mr. VELDE. You say you are an outstanding liberal?
Mr. GARFIELD. That is what they said.
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned a while ago that the Communist Party didn't trust you.  343 
Mr. GARFIELD. They don't trust liberals. 
Mr. POTTER. Many times they use liberals.
Mr. GARFIELD. They try; yes, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. I would say Alger Hiss was known as a very out- standing liberal. Certainly he gained some element of approval and acceptance by the Communist Party.
Mr. KEARNEY. And also by the Government of the United States.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of a motion-picture committee of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendshi ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Could you tell me what year that was
Mr. TAVENNER. 1943.
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't remember being a member. I don't remem- ber an organization of that kind.
Mr. TAVENNER. This may refresh your recollection about it. Paul- ine Swanson, National Council of American-Soviet Friendship, issued a press release indicating that on August 22, 1943, a speech and cocktail party would be given at the Mocambo Restaurant in Hollywood in honor of Russian film director Mikhail Kalatozov, which was being arranged by the motion-picture committee of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. Among the list of sponsors was the name of John Garfield.
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, I don't remember sponsoring that organiza- tion. I spoke at one time, in 1943-I remember this vividly, it was during the war when the Russians were our allies-downtown at the Shrine Auditorium with Mayor Bowron and many city officials and many people in the motion-picture industry. That is the only function I remember in relation to that organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to ask you about the Congress on Civil Rights held in Detroit, Mich., during April 1946.
Mr. GARFIELD. That I absolutely and flatly deny. I had absolutely nothing to do with it. Once or twice they had written me letters to become a member of that organization and I turned them down. I was never connected in any way with that organization.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did I ask you at an earlier time whether you were actually associated with the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, you did; and I said I wasn't, and I continue to say I wasn't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you contributed money to that organization?
Mr. GARFIELD. They used to give concerts and benefits for the theater, and it is possible I might have bought some tickets for the theater or for the concerts.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated in any way with the Council on African Affairs, Inc.?
Mr. GARFIELD. None whatsoever. 
Mr. TAVENNER. According to the Daily Worker of December 29, 1948, you were referred to as having been a signer of a statement asking for the abolition of the Committee on Un-American Activities which was issued by the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. First I would like to ask you, were you a member of that organization? 
Mr. GARFIELD. I was not a member of that organization. The only organization I was a member of that had to do with that was the Committee for the First Amendment. 344 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not speaking of your membership in that organization at this time, but how about the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions?
Mr. GARFIELD. I was not a member of the National Council of the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. I contributed some money to them when they were an arm of the Democratic Party, but I never had a membership in the Arts, Sciences, and Professions. I might point out, Mr. Tavenner, that I have always been a registered Democrat, and have contributed to the Democratic Party. Not only that, but I have contributed to the Liberal Party in New York headed by David Dubinsky, outstanding anti-Communist labor-union leader. Those are the only two parties I ever belonged to.
Mr. TAVENNER. Information available to the committee indicates that you were a member of the sponsors' committee of the American Committee for Yugoslav Relief in 1945. Is that correct ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't think I was a member of the committee, but I contributed some money. I would like to tell you the story of that, if I may. When I was overseas in 1944, I was with a USO show, and we were in Italy doing what was commonly called at that time the "bomber run." We would go from Naples to Cascina and play all the hospitals and to the front-line troops. Then we went over to Bari and covered Foggia, which was also a front-line center for troops. At that time an officer in the Special' Services of the United States Army came to me and said, "Look, we want you to do us a very special favor. Would you have your troupe entertain 10,000 Yugoslav Partisans being secretly trained?" I said, "Are you kidding? In the first place, we can't speak their language." He said, "It would be a good gesture. We can't tell you where we are taking you. It is secret." I said, "I can't speak for the rest of the troupe, but I can speak for myself. I will do it." I spoke to the rest of the troupe and they agreed and we went and entertained the Yugoslav Partisans. They gave a party afterward, and at that time I met a man called Colonel Dedijer.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you spell the name?
Mr. GARFIELD. You got me there.
Mr. TAVENNER. D-e-d-i-j-e-r?
Mr. GARFIELD. I guess so. He came to the United States during the San Francisco Conference in 1945 and looked me up. He had lost his wife and child in the war, and he was raising money for Yugoslav relief. As a matter of fact, he was also very interested in getting some of the pictures that their country had not seen since the occupation of the Nazis. So I sent him to the Motion Picture Acadeiny of Arts and Sciences, where he got a list of those films. It was through him that I contributed the money to this Yugoslav organization, and I would like to show you the canceled checks, which I have. One is for $50 and one is for $5. And this is the list of sponsors of the organization called the American Committee for Yugoslav Relief: Marshall Field, Mrs. E. M. M. Warburg, James P. Warburg, John Dewey, Virginia C. Gildersleeve, Spyros P. Skouras. This is the only money I gave to Yugoslav relief.  INDUSTRY 345 (Letter and two canceled checks turned over to committee staff by the witness.)
Mr. TAVENNER. The New York Times of March 3, 1945, contained an advertisement paid for by the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade advocating a break with Franco Spain. Among those listed as sponsoring the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade is your name. 
Mr. GARFIELD. Again let me say to the committee and to you that I was for Spain because I felt it was a democratically elected government. I was against the Communists in there as much as I was against the Fascists in there. That was my position and has always been my position. I was and still am against the Communists and against the Fascists. However, on this particular point that you mention, I have no knowledge of ever giving permission to them to use my name. The only organization that I worked with about Spain was an organization called the Theater Arts Committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of or associated with Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Or with the Friends of the Abraham Lincoln Bri- gade?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Did you know at the time that the Abraham Lincoln Brigade was a Communist-sponsored group ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir; I didn't know it. Had I known it-although I don't remember having sponsored this particular event-I would have had nothing to do with it. But I still feel the same way about Spain. 
Mr. VELDE. You had no reason to believe that group was Commu- nist-sponsored ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mentioned earlier you were a member of the Committee for the First Amendment?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell us what part you played in this group?
Mr. GARFIELD. I will be happy to.
Mr. MOULDER. What group is that? 
Mr. GARFIELD. Committee for the First Amendment, which was organized in 1947 in California. I was in New York at that time. - I was not in on the organization of this committee. I received a telephone call-I am not quite sure whether it was from John Huston- asking me to come down to Washington for two reasons. One was that the industry as an industry was being called unpatriotic and unAmerican, and we felt that we had done an outstanding job in the war, and we felt it was our duty as people who worked in the indus- try to come to its defense. That was point No. 1. Point No. 2 was the issue of free speech, Mr. Eric Johnston said at that particular time, "I may be against everything you believe in, but I will fight for the right for you to say so."
Mr. JACKSON. I think the record should show Eric Johnston was anticipated a number of years in that remark.
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't know about that, but I remember that in- stance. 346 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. I think it was Victor Hugo who first said that, or Voltaire.
Mr. GARFIELD. I also recall in a conversation I had with Mr. Huston I said, "The most important thing is that it must not be Communist-associated, because if we want to make a fight on the issue that is quite important." That is my recollection. As a matter of fact, I think the New York Times quoted me as saying that. There were no Communists in that organization to my knowledge.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Chairman, could I ask a question at this time?
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter. 
Mr. PoTTER. You stated you wanted to make sure there were no Communists identified with this movement, Committee for the First Amendment. You'must have known of a certain movement, or of certain Communist activity, in Hollywood, or you would not have been suspicious of it?
Mr. GARFIELD. That was because of the hearing, you know.
Mr. POTTER. If you were so cautious as to make sure no Communist was identified with your group, certainly you knew of Communist activity in Hollywood or you would not have been so cautious ?
Mr. GARFIELD. NO, not necessarily; not necessarily.
Mr. PorTER. All right.
Mr. GARFIELD. We had, as a matter of fact, on that committee, very strong liberals and very strong conservatives.
Mr. POTTER. You don't believe there were any Communists identified with the group?
Mr. GARFIELD. I made the point very clear, "If we are going to fight on that issue, we must be sure there is nobody in the organization with a left tinge." If you will look at the list of people who came here in 1947, the list will speak for itself, I am sure.
Mr. POTTER. That was in protest to the hearings in 1947 ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Exactly.
Mr. POTTER. If I remember, at that time 10 Hollywood people were cited for contempt who refused to cooperate with the committee, and some of those, I am sure, were known Communists.
Mr. GARFIELD. But they were not on the Committee for the First Amendment. We were fighting on general principles. It had nothing to do with these people. That is the whole point. It had nothing to do with these individuals, believe me. It had to do with the two basic principles. It had nothing to do with the individuals.
Mr. WooD. What you mean is that that was your conception of it?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. As I have said, I wasn't in on the organization of it. I wasn't in California. Some 2 or 3 months later I did a play, Skipper Next to God, and the Daily Worker panned me and said I was a little punch-drunk for playing in a religious play like Skipper Next to God.
Mr. VELDE. How did you know about the Daily Worker saying that?
Mr. GARFIELD. I look in,all papers and try to find out all information about myself.
Mr. VELDE. I was interested in how you happened to see it.
Mr. GARFIELD. Would you like to see the copy ?
Mr. VELDE. No. I have seen many copies of the Daily Worker. I asked how you happened to look at the Daily Worker.
Mr. GARFIED. They review all plays. 347 
Mr. VELDE. There is nothing sinister in my question.
Mr. GARFIELD. Most actors, if they are actors at all, like to see all the reviews, regardless of what paper publishes them. review of a play I was in. That was a 
Mr. VELDE. You still haven't answered my question, Mr. Garfield. How did you happen to get hold of a copy of the Daily Worker?
Mr. GARFIELD. It was a review in the Daily Worker.
Mr. VELDE. I realize that. Do you remember where you obtained the copy ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. I got a copy by buying a copy. They have a dramatic critic and they review plays just like the New York Times or the Herald Tribune.
Mr. MOULDER. We subscribe to the Daily Worker here.
Mr. JACKSON. And the witness should know that this committee also shared the criticism of the Daily Worker.
Mr. WooD. Proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. At least one purpose and object of the Committee for the First Amendment was to influence the hearings that this committee was then engaged in, was it not, that is, the Hollywood hearings in which this committee was then engaged?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir. We were defending the industry. We were following Mr. Johnston and Mr. Paul V. McNutt.
Mr. TAVENNER. You have stated that you were willing to cooperate with this committee here now ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Would you have cooperated with it then, in 1947?
Mr. GARFIELD. I would have, yes. I have nothing to hide, sir. I certainly would have.
Mr. TAVENNER. As you look back upon your activity in connection with the Committee for the First Amendment, do you now take the same view you took then, or do you feel that this committee should properly investigate communism in the motion-picture industry ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Pretty much, except one thing. There is a big dif- ference between fighting for a legitimate political party and fighting for a subversive group, which I consider the Communists to be, and that is where I would differ today.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU now consider it to be a subversive group rather than a political party ?
Mr. (ARFIELD. Exactly. For instance, I am a Democrat, and if you were a Republican I would fight like the devil for your right to speak up. But I feel that these people are not a legitimate political party.
Mr. TAVENNER. In 1947, Mr. Garfield, it was no secret that the Com- munist Party was a conspiratorial group that intended to overthrow this Government, even by use of force and violence if necessary. (Representative Donald L. Jackson left hearing room.)
Mr. GARFIELD. It is much clearer now than it was then; much clearer.
Mr. POTrER. When did you determine in your own mind that the Communist Party was a conspiracy? 
Mr. GARFIELD. When Wallace decided to run on a third party ticket, I quit. I felt he was being captured. 81595-51-pt. 2--4 348 INDUSTRY 
Mr. POTTER. Up until the formation of the so-called Wallace Party, Progressive Party, you didn't in your own mind believe the Communist Party was anything other than a political party ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Exactly. That is what creates an awful lof of confusion in many people's minds. They say, "This party is on the ballot," and they think it is automatically a legitimate party. It seems to me if the Communist Party was outlawed it would help clear up a lot of confusion on that point.
Mr. POTTER. I share your view.
Mr. WooD. You have indicated some knowledge of the Communist Party at that time and its activities. How could you possibly know anything about the activities of the Communist Party if you didn't know who its members were?
Mr. GARFIELD. I had no knowledge who its members were, and didn't know all its workings.
Mr. WOOD. How could you formulate an opinion ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Mr. Potter asked me when I changed.
Mr. WOOD. You can't change your position on an organization that you don't know anything about, can you ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I felt this way: I was for Wallace up until the time he ran on a ticket that I thought was being captured by a small group of people, in general. I didn't know the, people specifically. I felt he was being captured.
Mr. WOOD. Did I understand you to say you thought Wallace was being captured by people who were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes.
Mr. WOOD. How did you know that? (Representative Donald L. Jackson returned to hearing room.)
Mr. GARFIELD. That was public knowledge. I had no other in- formation except that.
Mr. WooD. It is my understanding you didn't know any of the people who formed the group that took him over ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Who captured him ?
Mr. WooD. Yes. 
Mr. GARFIELD. No.
Mr. WOOD. You still think it was a Communist group ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes.
Mr. WooD. And ou still say you didn't know a single one of those?
Mr. GARFIELD. Except from the newspapers. But that is when -I broke away.
Mr. WooD. You broke away from what?
Mr. GARFIELD. From the Progressive Party.
Mr. WooD. You had been affiliated with the Progressive Party ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I was not a member of it. The only party I was ever a member of was the Democratic Party, but I contributed money to the Progressive Citizens of America because they were an arm of the Democratic Party on some issues. For instance, they backed Mrs. Douglas in California. I supported that.
Mr. WooD. Let me ask you categorically, have you any knowledge of the identity of a single individual who was a member of the Communist Party during the time you were in Hollywood ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Moulder.  349 
Mr. MOULDER. As I understand, you formed your opinion not by any personal knowledge of or association with any member of the Communist Party, but like all of us, you formulated your opinion from general information that was disseminated?
Mr. GARFIELD. Exactly, Mr. Congressman. (Representative Francis E. Walter left hearing room.)
Mr. WooD. Anything further?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. In connection with your work on the Committee for the First Amendment, did you sponsor a call upon Congress to abolish the Committee on Un-American Activities?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't remember sponsoring that. I am very honest about that, very frank about that.
Mr. MOULDER. What was that question ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. I asked if he joined in a movement calling upon Congress to abolish the Committee on Un-American Activities.
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member ofthe American League for Peace and Democracy?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir; not to my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you contribute to its support?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir. (Representative Francis E. Walter returned to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated in any way with the China Aid Council?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. sir. I was in favor of the Chinese when they were attacked by the Japanese, like any decent human being would be.
Mr. MOULDER. That was during the war, was it ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir.
Mr. MOULDER. That is, during the last World War when we were at war with Japan?
Mr. GARFIELD. What is the date on that ?
Mr. TAVENNER. May 5, 1940.
Mr. MOULDER. That was after the attack on Pearl Harbor? 
Mr. GARFIELD. NO; before, when the Japanese were attacking the Chinese before Pearl Harbor. They were practicing up for Pearl Harbor. SMr. TAVENNER. Were you ever in China?
Mr. GARFIELD. No; I was never in China. The man who got me interested in this was a great hero for me and a personal friend, Gen. Evans Carlson, of the Marine Raiders.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe in some of the speeches which you made in connection with the China Aid Council you extolled the democratic processes in Communist China to a great extent?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't remember. There was no Communist China at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. But in the sections in which the Communists had control ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir. I don't remember making any speech of that kind. There was no such thing as a Communist government in China at that time. There was a Nationalist government. I would like to point out, Mr. Tavenner, that before Pearl Harbor I went overseas. It was during the time that the war was called an imperialistic war by the Communists. I went overseas on a special 350 COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY mission. I have the honor of being the first American actor to go overseas during the war. We covered about 1,500 miles of bases in the Caribbean and North and South America. This was before Pearl Harbor. It was not a very popular trip in terms of Communists. They thought it was perpetrating a war.
Mr. TAVENNER. Going back to a much earlier date, I believe that you were one of a group of arists and educators who supported the Moscow trials?
Mr. GARFIELD. I looked into that, sir. I have no knowledge and I flatly say I have never given permission for my name to be used on that particular statement.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU deny having consented to the making of such a statement?
Mr. GARFIELD. Absolutely. I was against those trials. They were undemocratic, dictatorial.
Mr. TAVENNER. Back in 1940-in fact, on April 1, 1940-while the nonaggression pact between Russia and Germany was in effect, I believe you were the honored guest at a meeting here in Wahington at which you delivered an address attacking the intensive war drives then in progress and urging your listeners to read Dalton Trumbo's antiwar novel, Johnny Got His Gun.
Mr. GARFIELD. That is absolutely untrue. I was never in Washing- ton in 1940 and I never made such a speech. As I explained to you, I went overseas at that time, when the Communists considered the war an imperialistic war. It doesn't make sense.
Mr. TAVENNER. You deny making such a speech?
Mr. GARFIELD. Definitely and absolutely. As a matter of fact, I have checks here for Bundles for Britain in 1940. I have checks for Catholic institutions. No Communist would contribute to Bundles * for Britain or to Catholic institutions in that period.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am aware that later you made different statements.
Mr. GARFIELD. Even General MacArthur said the future of generations rested on the Red banner, or something of that kind. I was supporting our Allies-Dutch, Chinese, whoever was fighting dictatorships.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you at any time a sponsor of the China Conference Committee in 1946 ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was a group which sponsored the removal of American troops from China at that time. Did you ever sponsor a movement of that kind ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Never; never; absolutely, positively no. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask you a few questions now regard- ing your attitude at the time of the attack by Russia on Finland. What was the first position that you took on that subject?
Mr. GARIELD. I took no position on that subject, but it was an interesting thing. I didn't take any position one way or another, but I did, I remember, pose for pictures for Finnish aid, and I did state publicly that I was for Finnish war relief.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you associated with Mr. Louis Schaffer ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Was I associated with him?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, in any way.
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.  INDUSTRY 351 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know Mr. Schaffer?
Mr. GARFIELD. I just know him by a telephone conversation. I never met him personally.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall sending a wire to Mr. Schaffer regarding your position toward Russia and Finland ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, I do. I stated that I was for Finland in that wire.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, then, did you follow that up with a letter to
Mr. Schaffer in which you took a different position?
Mr. GARFIELD. No. I said to him I didn't think it was fair for him to use the letter originally which he did against my wishes. I remember saying that to him. That was all.
Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you what purports to be a copy of your letter to Mr. Schaffer. Will you look at it and see whether you can identify it as a copy of the letter that you wrote him ?
Mr. GARFIELD. 1950? 
Mr. TAVENNER. NO. The date has nothing to do with the letter. That is the date when we obtained the copy.
Mr. GARFIELD. It says M,arch 18, 1950.1 
Mr. TAVENNER. Which is the date upon which we obtained the copy, I believe. The date, March 18, 1950, has nothing to do with the letter.
Mr. GARFIELD. I recall no such letter, especially on this date.
Mr. TAVENNER. Other than the date, do you recall the contents of the letter?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't, very frankly, no. I would like to show you what I have here. The date here is the New Leader, a well-known anti-Communist paper, March 16,1940: John Garfield, the well-known stage and screen actor, wired: "If such a statement was issued, it was without my knowledge or consent, because I feel Finland should be helped. Can you send me that statement?" It is stated here: In the following article Louis Schaffer exposes TAC for the papier mfchd front it is. The documents he discusses are on file in the New Leader office. John Garfield, shown here, was one of those whose names were used without authorization to cover TAC maneuvers. It's all in the article. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you later repudiate your statement in the telegram?
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't remember repudiating it, I honestly don't. And I never wrote that letter.
Mr. NIZER. We would be glad to have that marked for the record [referring to photostat of page from New Leader, March 16, 1940].
Mr. TAVENNER, We will file it as a part of the testimony for the consideration of the committee, unless the chairman rules otherwise.
Mr. NIZER. Does that make it part of the record?
Mr. TAVENNER. It will not be printed.
Mr. NIZER. I understood all the documents were to be part of the record. I think we did offer what documents we had so as to be helpful, not for the purpose of circumscribing his testimony.
Mr. KEARNEY. As I recall, in all our hearings before, documents handed to the stenographer were made a part of the record. 1The date on typed copy of this letter incorrectly appears March 18, 1950. tion of the correct date, March 18, 1940, is in the files of the as committee. Verifica- 352 INDUSTRY 
Mr. WOOD. Not unless so designated. We have previously received documentary matter for the consideration of the committee only. It doesn't necessarily follow, when a document is received by the com- mittee, that it is embodied in the record.
Mr. MOULDER. IS the quotation by Mr. Tavenner a part of the record ? Will it be a part of the record, the letter, I mean ?
Mr. WooD. No.
Mr. NIZER. If it is before the committee, in whatever way, it is all right. We don't care about the technical aspects.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no objection to making it a part of the record and printing it all, but we frequently do not print it all.
Mr. DAVIS. These documents are so few. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Garfield, there has been information regarding a trip you made to a Russian ship on the west coast. Is there any significance to that?
Mr. GARFIELD. I would like to tell the committee the facts on that. In 1945 or 1946 the State Department invited Constantine Semenov to come to the United States at their expense. Mr. Semenov was shown around the various studios and was entertained at Robert Montgomery's house and at the homes of many other people. We made the gesture of friendly relationship with him, cultural exchange. I met Mr. Semenov the first time in Hollywood, and he invited us to come and have a drink with him on a Russian ship in San Pedro. We went and had a drink. The press was there. We invited the press in. A State Department official was there who was the interpreter. That is the first and last time I saw Mr. Semenov.
Mr. MOULDER. What was the date of that?
Mr. GARFIELD. 1945 or 1946. It was the tag end of the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any other occasion when you visited Russian ships?
Mr. GARFIELD. No. 
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall on one occasion there was shown a Russian film, The Bear?
Mr. GARFIELD. The Bear was written-by Anton Chekov in 1870. It is the story of a man who comes to woo a widow, and it is kind of amusing, funny. They showed that picture. It is a one-act picture. This was on this particular occasion.
Mr. TAVENNER. This same occasion?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. Somebody said we were shown a propaganda film called The Bear. You can go to any public library and read The Bear and you will see it has no such indication of any kind.
Mr. WALTER. It is a very old story ?
Mr. GARFIELD. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe your name appears on a brief amicus curiae filed in the case of the Hollywood Ten before the Supreme Court?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. 
Mr. TAVENNER. I believe the brief was originally filed under the name of Alexander Meiklejohn, M-e-i-k-1-e-j-o-h-n. Will you tell us the circumstances under which you signed the brief ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, I was asked to sign it, and I said I wouldn't sign it unless many other people signed it who were not in any way leftist, because I felt that I wouldn't want to lend my name to anything like that unless other people in the industry did; and they did.  353 
Mr. TAVENNER. How were arrangements made for you to join in? 
Mr. It was not joining in. Somebody approached me and asked if I would be a nice guy and do it. I said I wouldn't unless some other people did. They said, "All right, go get other people." I thought I was being on the court's side when I signed this document, a friend of the court. I thought it was important that a man is never guilty until proven so, and it was on that principle and that alone that I signed that document, but I. certainly was not the only one. .
Mr. WooD. Do you recall who first approached you on that subject?
Mr. GARFIELD. Well, as I explained to Mr. Russell or Mr. WheelerMr. WooD. We were not there at the time. GARFIELD. 
Mr. GARFIELD. I vaguely remember being approached at the Bev- erly Hills Tennis Club.
Mr. WooD. And you can't recall who brought the conversation up?
Mr. GARFIELD. They asked if it wasn't a person named Willner, and I said I wasn't sure if it was or wasn't. But this particular person,
Mr. Chairman, was a member of that club, so it is possible he was the one that asked me. I am not sure on that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember whether it was a man or a woman ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I can't remember if it was a man or a woman, but it is possible it might have been a woman. I can't honestly remember. But I know that is where I was asked, at the Beverly Hills Tennis Club.
Mr. WOOD. Prior to that time had you ever signed a brief in the Supreme Court in any case ?
Mr. GARFIELD. NO. 
Mr. WOOD. This was the only brief you had signed in the Supreme Court of the United States ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, Mr. Chairman,
Mr. WooD. And you are unable, notwithstanding that was an event that occurred only once in your life, to give the committee the identity of the person who discussed it with you ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I would if I remembered. I have a vague recollection that this Willner person approached me. I am not sure. But I know I was approached at this tennis club.
Mr. WooD. The reason I asked that question, you have been rather positive in some of the things you have been asked about, that you not only did not sign a petition to join certain organizations but that you wouldn't do so, and here is an event it seems to me would be rather important in a man's lifeMr. GARFIELD. I signed this.
Mr. WooD. But would you have signed it if just anybody had walked up and asked you to?
Mr. GARFIELD. Not if it was any stranger; no.
Mr. WooD. And you can't give the committee any further identification of the person who approached you on that subject than what you have given?
Mr. GARFIELD. I tried to recall, as I said. If I knew it I would really gladly tell it, but I know I was approached at the Beverly Hills Tennis Club.
Mr. WooD. All right. 354 INDUSTRY 
Mr. TAVENNER. Referring again to this party on board the Russian ship which you described, who else attended the party besides your- self?
Mr. GARFIELD. Mr. and Mrs. Louis Milestone; somebody from the State Department; Mr. and Mrs. Charles Chaplin; and my wife.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you say somebody from the State Department, or did you indicate Milestone was from the State Department?
Mr. GARFIELD. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. DQ you know the name of the person from the State Department ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No. As a matter of fact, it was stated at the time that this was all being paid for by the State Department as a cultural gesture on our part.
Mr. TAVENNER. There was a witness before this committee by the name of Richard Collins. I believe he is employed by your studio ?
Mr. GARFIELD. He was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Is he now?
Mr. GARFIELD. Still is. He is writing a movie script for me. He is supposed to be writing a movie script.
Mr. TAVENNER. He testified here he had been a member of the Com- munist Party for a period of, I believe, 8 or 9 years, and that he left the party about 1948 or 1949. How long during that period of time was he employed by you ?
Mr. GARIEELD. We just hired him about 4 months ago.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Chairman, may I ask a question?
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde. 
Mr. VELDE. You mentioned this party attended by Louis Milestone and others was given by the State Department?
Mr. GARFIELD. NO.
Mr. VELDE. What was your statement?
Mr. GARFIELD. The State Department invited Mr. Semenov to the United States. He was entertained by many of the people in Hollywood-Warner Bros. and many others. He wanted to see motionpicture production in the United States, and he did. He reciprocated by giving a party on board ship. He gave the party. There was no political discussion of any kind. He couldn't speak English.
Mr. VELDE. The two meetings, then, were under the general spon- sorship of the State Department?
Mr. GARFIELD. He was initially invited to the United States by the State Department.
Mr. VELDE. You meanMr. GARFIELD. Mr. Semenov being a well-known screen writer and novelist.
Mr. VELDE. How did you know that?
Mr. GARFIELD. That was in the public press. He was on the Warner lot. We meet many people who come to the studios.
Mr. VELDE. That was the only way you knew him? 
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. 
Mr. VELDE. Go ahead with your further explanation.
Mr. GARFIELD. His returning gesture was, "Come and have a drink on the ship in San Pedro and see this picture." We went and had a drink and saw the picture. The press was there. It was common knowledge.  INDUSTRY 355 
Mr. VELDE. You don't remember the name of the State Department official who was there? I am not accusing this member of the State Department of being a Communist or anything like that. I just think if the party was given for a member of the State Department you should remember who it was.
Mr. GARFIELD. I will try to make it clear. 
Mr. Semenov was invited here. He had an interpreter. The State Department was contributing the expense because they wanted better cultural relationship. They asked where he wanted to go, and he said, "Hollywood," because he was interested in motion pictures. Then he in turn gave this party at his expense.
Mr. VELDE. I understand that much of it. Do you remember any- body else who was present ? Again, I am not trying to place Communist Party membership on anybody who was present.
Mr. GARFIELD. I understand. That is the best I can remember of that incident.
Mr. VELDE. That is all.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. No questions.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. First I want to compliment the witness upon his statement that he has always been against communism, that it is a tyranny which threatens our country and the peace of the world. And I feel morally inclined to express my opinion that nothing has been presented by the committee which associates you with the Communist Party. Everyone who is brought before this committee is not necessarily accused of being a Communist, but is brought here to give such information as- he may have on Communist activities or subversive activities. And I don't think anybody who is a liberal should be condemned in the slightest degree. Jefferson was a liberal, and so was Lincoln.
Mr. GARFIELD. Thank you. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Frazier.
Mr. FRAZIER. No questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. Mr. Garfield, I want to preface my questions with a few statements, too. I realize that you people in public life are subject to attempts from the Communist Party to get you to join it, to get you to use your influence to work for the cause of the Communist Party. Neither do I want to question you because of your political affiliation with the Democratic Party. There are a lot of different shades of thought in the Democratic Party and in the Republican Party, and I might say there are a lot of different shades of thought in the Communist Pkrty, but we recognize the Communist Party is an organization directed and controlled by the Government of Soviet Russia, and we recognize a conspiracy exists to overthrow all democratic nations of the world. In your testimony you have, as our distinguished chairman said, remembered definitely a lot of things, and a lot of things you have forgotten. I want to straighten this matter out about whether or not you signed a petition to abolish this committee in 1947 or 1948 ? 356 INDUSTRY 
Mr. GARFIELD. I say I never did sign.
Mr. VELDE. You are very positive you did not sign such a petition ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Quite positive; yes, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Did you attend any meetings or do anything other than sign a petition? Yes; I did.
Mr. VELDE. Will you go ahead and explain that ?
Mr. ARFIELD. 
Mr. GARFIELD. That was a meeting that had to do with the Committee for the First Amendment.
Mr. VELDE. And in that meeting that was held, did you recognize any other Communists-or any Communists, rather; I beg your pardon-did you recognize any Communists as being present ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. Do you know of any Communists during your experi- ence in Hollywood or elsewhere?
Mr. GARFIELD. I said before that I did not, and I say again, very honestly and very truthfully.
Mr. VELDE. Yet you spoke of being very anti-Communist, and I think you said you did realize that there was a Communist organization in Hollywood ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. It was pretty obvious.
Mr. VELDE. When did you first come to this realization that there was a Communist Party in Hollywood 2
Mr. GARFIELD. As I said before, when I quit the Wallace thing I felt he was being captured by a group of Communists. I didn't know these people personally, but that was my feeling.
Mr. VELDE. You didn't know before that time that there was a Communist Party organization in Hollywood ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I did not.
Mr. VELDE. That was approximately what date that you decided there was a Communist movement in Hollywood ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Late 1947 or 1948.
Mr. VELDE. Coming back to your early experience in Hollywood, I think you went there in 1938 ?
Mr. GARFIELD. 1938.
Mr. VELDE. Do you remember the time when Soviet Russia had signed a peace pact with Germany ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. I recall also that I made a public statement in which I said I couldn't understand this position and was against it. I said so in a restaurant called Chasen's in 1939, in which I denounced this pact as a vicious thing. That motivated my action in going overseas before Pearl Harbor, when the Communists called the war imperialistic.
Mr. VELDE. By the way, I don't know if the question has been asked you before, but have you ever been in military service? 
Mr. GARFIELD. No. I was inducted. I was in Italy when my draft came up, and I came back. They said, "Go home." They said I was too old, and I had two kids.
Mr. VELDE. At that time ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. 
Mr. VELDE. You were reclassified
Mr. GARFIELD. I was actually inducted in the Army and said goodby and walked in, and they said, "Go home. You are too old."
Mr. VELDE. Who said that?  357 
Mr. GARFIELD. The staff sergeant.
Mr. VELDE. Coming back to the Russian-German Pact, you know .hat there was a change in Communist Party line at that time? 
Mr. GARFELD. I only know how I felt.
Mr. VELDE. How did you feel?
Mr. GARFIELD. I felt that was a very, very dastardly thing, and I was against it. In fact, I was not only against it privately, but I stated so publicly, and I did something about it. I am opposed to any kind of dictatorship, whether communistic or Fascist.
Mr. VELDE. Did you ever have any reason to suspect any of your associates of being members of the Communist Party?
Mr. GARFIELD. As I said, the people who were mentioned here I knew purely and solely and honestly on a work basis. These things never entered my relationships with them. I had no relationships of that kind with them. Even if you look through the content of the pictures we made, there was no indication of that at all.
Mr. VELDE. You must have recognized that there was a Communist Party movement if you knew that they were trying to influence or propagandize pictures?
Mr. GARFIELD.. As I said before, during this strike when we took this vote, 98.9 percent of the membership of the Screen Actors' Guild voted against this smaller group which was purportedly Communistled. That was rumor. That was in the rumor department. That was how the Screen Actors' Guild felt about this purported group of Communists.
Mr. VELDE. Do you want to go on record as saying you had no knowledge whatsoever of any Communist Party movement in Hollywood until the time you broke with the Wallace Party ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Absolutely and positively.
Mr. VELDE. That is all. 
Mr. WOOD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. Mr. Chairman, I note here, and I think I will speak for the minority members of this committee, that the Tenney committee, State of California, listed the Hollywood Democratic Committee as a subversive organization, but we of the minority don't consider the Democratic Party subversive by any means. I would like to ask Mlr. Garfield whether he ever made any statement regarding the Marshall plan?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes. I came back from Europe and I was ques- tioned by reporters, and I made a statement which ran as follows: quote, "The Marshall plan is killing communism in Europe and that is good," quote, unquote. It is interesting, by the way, that this was in the press and widely circulated.
Mr. KEARNEY. You say "quotes"; is that from memory?
Mr. GARFIELD. That is from fact.
Mr. KEARNEY. IS that from memory that you just gave ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes.
Mr. KEARNEY. That is from the record as I have it, also. That is all, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Garfield, I am still afraid that I am not entirely convinced of the entire accuracy and entire cooperation you are giving this committee. It is your contention you did not know, during 358 INDUSTRY the time you were in New York affiliated with the Group Theater, which for all its artistry was pretty well shot through with the philosophy of communismMr. GARFIELD. That is not true.
Mr. . ACKSON. That is a matter of opinion. You contend during all that time in New York you did not know a Communist?
Mr. GARFIELD. That is right.
Mr. JACKSON. And you contend that during the 7/2 years or more that you were in Hollywood and in close contact with a situation in which a number of Communist cells were operating on a week-toweek basis, with electricians, actors, and every class represented, that during the entire period of time you were in Hollywood you did not know of your own personal knowledge a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. GARFIELD. That is absolutely correct, because I was not a party member or associated in any shape, way, or form.
Mr. JACKSON. During that period it might interest you to know attempts were made to recruit me into the Communist Party, and I was making $32.50 a week.
Mr. GARFIELD. They certainly stayed away from me, sir. 
Mr. JACKSON. Perhaps I looked like better material. This picture, He Ran All the Way-who produced it ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. I did.
Mr. JACKSON. You produced it?
Mr. GARFIELD. I didn't have any screen credit for producing it, but I always work as coproducer.
Mr. JACKSON. The script was by whom ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Guy Endore and Hugo Butler.
Mr. JACKSON. Who directed it?
Mr. GARFIELD. Jack Berry. 
Mr. JACKSON. You have never been approached at any time to join the Communist Party?
Mr. GARFIELD. Never. 
Mr. JACKSON. Nor have you been approached to assist at Com- munist Party functions, or functions of Communist-front organizations when you knew they were front organizations?
Mr. GARFIELD. That is right, Mr. Jackson. I might say, if at any time that had happened, I would have run like hell.
Mr. JACKSON. I must say, Mr. Chairman, in conclusion, that I am still not satisfied. One more question. I have before me a letter from the National Counsel of the Arts, Sciences and Professions, which states: The Eighty-first Congress has a primary obligation action to protect the civil rights of the American people. For years now the constitutional rights, the reputations, the jobs, and the private lives of many of our citizens have been recklessly attacked by the irresponsible Committee on Un-American Activities. This committee has been denounced by the President, by Members of the Congress, and by American leaders throughout the country. In its hearings it has failed to observe the most basic concept of Anglo-Saxon law. It has consistently used headline scare tactics to intimidate and to induce an atmosphere of fear and repression which is repugnant to our most precious American traditions. Its entire history has been one of flagrant violation of common decency and human liberty and has been an affront to one of the greatest institutions in our democracy-the American Congress. The Eighty-first Congress can and must abolish the Committee on Un-American Activities. We urge immediate action toward this end. 359 You are listed as one of a number of signers. Did you or did you not sign it ?
Mr. GARFIELD. May I ask the date of that, please ?
Mr. JACKSON. The date of the letter is-the date is not given. Yes; it was received in January 1949. Is that right ?
Mr. NIXoN. That is the date we received it. 
Mr. GARFIELD. I don't recall signing it. 
Mr. JACKSON. You do not recall signing it ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I do not recall signing it.
Mr. JACKSON. Do you subscribe to the statements made in the letter ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. NO. 
Mr. JACKSON. You repudiate the statements made in the letter ?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. That is all, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. WooD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Mr. Garfield, you told the committee of your activities in the liberal fields of endeavor Other witnesses before the committee who have been so-called liberals have pointed out that the Communists have endeavored to recruit them, because at many points they use many activities to recruit so-called liberals into the party. In answer to a question by Mr. Jackson you stated you have never been recruited or approached to be recruited ? 
Mr. GARFIELD. That is true. No one has ever- 
Mr. POTTER. No one has ever approached you to join the Communist Party? 
Mr. GARFIELD. That is true, Mr. Potter. I was never approached. I would like to add this for the record, if I may, my activities as a member of the Democratic Party. Officially, and from 1944 on, I have always been a registered Democrat. May I? 
Mr. WooD. Yes, sir.- You may submit anything you desire for the information of the committee. I understand you also have a prepared statement, and, if you desire, you may submit that to the clerk and it will be received and used as the committee sees fit. Proceed, Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Looking back, do you believe that any of the so-called liberal movements that you were affiliated with were used by the Communist Party in looking back at it now ? They were captured like the Wallace
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir. thing; sure, they were used. But how do you protect people like me? That is what I want to know. That is why I feel we should outlaw the party. We are in a tough spot. Don't you think so, Mr. Potter?
Mr. POTTER. I agree the party should be outlawed. I would go along with that. It is difficult for me to understand how you could have been affiliated with organizations that, looking back now, you believe were being used by the Communist Party, and have so little knowledge as to the fact that they were being used.
Mr. GARFIELD. I was not affiliated with these organizations. Some of them used by name without my permission. I was not affiliated with any political party except the Democratic Party and the Liberal Party. I never attended any meetings of these groups. I attended board meetings of the Screen Actors' Guild 6 years, and the minutes speak for themselves. 360 INDUSTRY I was also vice president and organizer with Bette Davis of the Hollywood Canteen in 1941. We raised $600,000, with which we built the canteen. I sold over $5,000,000 of bonds. I was a busy fellow, with a lot more things to do than getting involved with a lot of crackpots.
Mr. POTTER. Apparently the committee has received not only testi- mony but certain evidence from publications of alleged membership that you had that you now deny. Did you have knowledge of articles, for example, which appeared in the Daily Worker, which lauded you for such and such activities?
Mr. GARFIELD. I also have proof they panned me. I know the or- ganizations I am a member of: YMCA, Hoyle Club, Democratic Club, B'nai B'rith.
Mr. POTTER. You don't appear to be a naive man.
Mr. GARFIELD. I am not, I don't think.
Mr. PoTTER. It is difficult to understand. If I got lauded in the Daily Worker, I would begin to suspectMr. GARFIELD. You mean anybody mentioned in the Daily Worker is suspect ?
Mr. POTTER. I would try to find out what they were up to.
Mr. GARFIELD. Senator Taft was praised by the Daily Worker for his refusal to send troops to Europe. Does that mean he is on their team, so to speak?
Mr. POTTER. I think the reference to Senator Taft was a little different from the references I am speaking of here, and I am sure the Daily Worker has not made a constant effort to laud the Senator. I am not asking about Senator Taft's activities. But it seems incredible that you could be identified with movements which, looking back now, the Communists have used, without suspecting it until the Wallace break.
Mr. GARFIELD. I was not identified with these people. I was never active in these organizations, Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. Are you a joiner by nature?
Mr. GARFIELD. No; I am not a joiner by nature; I am not.
Mr. POTTER. Do you use any precautions to protect your name, to keep people from using your name when you don't want them to use it?
Mr. GARFIEmD. How can you protect it when somebody writes you a letter and says, "If you don't answer in a week we will consider you a member"? 
Mr. PorTTR. I would answer it right away if I didn't want them to use my name; and, if they did, I would take every legal means available. 
Mr. GARFIELD. I did, sir.
Mr. POTTER. Have you taken legal means?
Mr. GARFIELD. I have not taken legal means, but I intend to.
Mr. PorrER.'You intend to. That is all.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Moulder, did you have additional questions?
Mr. MOULDER. No questions; but, to answer Mr. Jackson's state- ment, I am convinced that no man should be convicted nor condemned on pure hearsay, rumor, or gossip. I sympathize with your position. Being one of the outstanding actors in this country, naturally you are going to be the subject of such rumor and gossip. I don't think any  361 man should be criticized because'he is a liberal Republican or a liberal Democrat. The statement I made to you reminds me of an experience in my last campaign, when my opponent accused me of being a "pink."
Mr. JACKSON. The Democrats made similar charges.
Mr. MOULDER. He also accused me of making statements against this committee, which was not true. I wish to reiterate my statement that your appearance before this committee does not of itself mean you are accused of being a Communist. I am clearly convinced from all the testimony adduced that you were never associated with the Communist Party or any Communist activity or subversive activity, and that you are a loyal American; and I compliment you on your vigilant fight against communism and your cooperation with this committee.
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. Chairman, so long as my name has been brought into this discussion, I would like to say I do not believe any man is guilty by association or anything of that sort. I am sure the gentleman from Missouri had no intention of accusing me of anything like that. I do say that, for one who is as intelligent and as well established as this witness has proven himself to be, it shows a naive or unintelligent approach to this problem for him to have lived with this activity 10, 11, or 15 years and not know more about it than this witness knows.
Mr. GARFIELD. 
Mr. Jackson, may I answer that? I went overseas twice. I was too busy with war work. I am now conscious of what you are saying, more conscious than I ever was, but in that time I was more conscious of my bigger duty, which was to my country, and where I as an artist can contribute.
Mr. JACKSON. Unfortunately, the work in which you were engaged became more suspect than the work of those overseas.
Mr. GARFIELD. I was overseas. I wasn't here joining parties while they were shooting over there and dropping bombs.
Mr. JACKSON. A great many witnesses have been produced who were members of the Communist Party and working for the overthrow of the Government. That is why you are here-not because you are John Garfield. You are here because you were associated with an industry that has become suspect in the eyes of many people. You are here because we hope you can contribute something to this committee.
Mr. GARFIELD. I hope that I have. I hope sincerely that I have. 
Mr. Chairman, may I readMr. TAVENNER. I have another question. Is Mr. Hugo Butler still associated with you in a business way ?
Mr. GARFIELD. No, sir; absolutely not. He hasn't been for the last 4 months-3 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean since these hearings began?
Mr. GARFIELD. Before--much before.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he is now ?
Mr. GARFIELD. I have no idea.
Mr. TAVENNER. You spoke of Jack Berry.
Mr. GARFIELD. He was the director-Mr. TAVENNER. Director of your picture? 
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he is? 362 COMMUNISM IN MOTION -PICTURE INDUSTRY 
Mr. GARFIELD. No. The picture was completed in November. That is the last I heard of him. I came to New York to do a play, Peer Gynt.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have been unsuccessful in locating either of them. We have subpenas for them.
Mr. GARFIELD. May I read a brief statement of four sentences? 
Mr. WooD. Four sentences?
Mr. GARFIELD. Four sentences.
Mr. WooD. The committee has heretofore ruled that statements should be submitted to the committee and not read. I have before me what I suppose is a copy of what you desire to read. I think it has already been included in your testimony, and for that reason I will permit you to read it.
Mr. MOULDER. Mr. Chairman.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Moulder.
Mr. MOULDER. The statement was made that you belonged to organ- izations the purpose of which was the overthrow of our Government by force and violence. As I understand your testimony, you have emphatically denied that you belonged to such organizations?
Mr. GARFIELD. Yes, sir. Thank you.
Mr. JACKSON. Actors' Laboratory is listed as a subversive organ- ization. I was never a member of that organization.
Mr. JACKSON. The witness appeared on behalf of Actors' Labora- 
Mr. GARFIELD. tory. I would correct my statement from "membership in" to "activity on behalf of" organizations that have been cited as subversive.
Mr. WOOD. Very well. Read your statement.
Mr. GARFIELD. When I was originally requested to appear before the committee, I said that I would answer all questions, fully and without any reservations, and that is what I have done. I have nothing to be ashamed of and nothing to hide. My life is an open book. I was glad to appear before you and talk with you. I am no Red. I am no "pink." I am no fellow traveler. I am a Democrat by politics, a liberal by inclination, and a loyal citizen of this country by every act of my life.
Mr. WooD. Are there any further questions ? 
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. VELDE. I have one more question. I want to ask the witness whether he saw that article in the New York Daily Worker [indicating article].
Mr. GARFIELD. I never remember giving permission. I never saw it; no, sir.
Mr. VELDE. That is all. 
Mr. WooD. Is there any reason, Mr. Counsel, why the witness should not be excused from further attendance ?
Mr. TAVENNER. No, sir.
Mr. WooD. I express my appreciation on behalf of the committee for your coming here and for the contribution you have made to our investigation. You may be excused under the subpena.
Mr. NIZER. We have submitted a memorandum, with photostatic copies, supporting the whole record of Mr. Garfield in detail, and may we consider it as under oath? It hasn't been sworn to, but we should  363 like to submit the facts under oath. This was given to one of the investigators voluntarily.
Mr. WOOD. I am told the investigators have a copy, so it will not be necessary to leave that additional copy. It will be filed for such use as the committee may determine. The committee stands adjourned until 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. (Thereupon, at 1:15 p. m. on Monday, April 23, 1951, an adjournment was taken until Tuesday, April 24, 1952, at 10 a. m.) 81505-51-pt. 2--5 COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 2 TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1951 UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES, Washington, D. 0. PUBLIC HEARING The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjourrment at 10:25 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building, Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding. Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter (appearance as noted in transcript), Morgan M. Moulder (appearance as noted in transcript), James B. Frazier, Jr., Harold H. Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, and Donald L. Jackson. Staff members present: Frank S. Travenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator; William A. Wheeler, Courtney E. Owens, and James Andrews, investigators; Raphael I. Nixon, director of research; John W. Carring- ton, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor. 
Mr. WOOD. The committee will be in order. Are you ready to proceed, Mr. Tavenner 
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes, sir. I would like to call as the first witness
Mr. Marc Lawrence.
Mr. WooD. Will you please raise your right hand and be sworn. You solemnly swear the testimony you give before this committee shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? 
Mr. LAWRENCE. I do, sir.
Mr. WooD. Have a seat.
Mr. LAWRENCE. Thank you, sir. TESTIMONY OF MARC LAWRENCE, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL, MURDAUGH S. MADDEN
